M   1LOAN NUMBER 1873 CY
Loan Agreement
(Power Transmission and Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY OF CYPRUS
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1873 CY
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONST UCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY OF CYPRUS (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has adopted an expansion program for
the period 1980-1984 (hereinafter referred to as the "Borrower's
Program") which comprises: (i) the installation of two 60-MW
oil-fired steam units, adjacent to the existing Dhekelia power
station, the new plant to be called Dhekelia "B" and to come into
service in 1982/83 as a new base load plant; (ii) the expansion
and reinforcement of the existing transmission system; and (iii)
the extension and reinforcement of the 11-kV and low viltage
distribution networks in towns and rural areas;
(B) the Republic of Cyprus (hereinafter called the Guar-
antor) has requested the Bank to assist in financing a part
of the Borrower's Program set forth in (ii) and (iii) in the
Preamble (A) above, namely, the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by making the Loan to the Borrower as hereinafter
provided; and
(C) the Guarantor or the Borrower has contracted or intends
to contract from foreign public or private financing institutions
(hereinafter collectively called the Co-financiers) loans and
credits in various foreign currencies in an approximate aggregate
amount equivalent to $80,000,000 dollars to assist further in the
financing of the Borrower's Program, on the terms and conditions
set forth in the agreements entered into or to be entered into
between the Guarantor or the Borrower and the Co-financiers
(hereinafter called the Co-financing Agreement or Co-financing
Agreements, as the case may be); and
WHEREAS, the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth:
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and


﻿- 2 -
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated 14arch 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and (a) the term "Electri-
city Development Law" means the Electricity Development Law (Cap.
171) of the Guarantor, as amended to the date of this Agreement,
and (b) the term "Previous Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agree-
ment concluded between the Bank and the Borrower on June 19,
1972.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen
million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-3-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
(b) Without limitation upon the generalities of the fore-
going, the Borrower shall appoint by October 1, 1980 or such later
date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree, a Project Manager who
shall be responsible for supervising the execution of the Project
and whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the design
of high voltage transmission lines and new substations, in the
preparation of load flow studies in system reinforcement in towns
where transmission works are involved, in the preparation of
specifications and tender documents and in the execution of the
132(66)-kV lines and substations under Part A of the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident


﻿-4-
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insu--znce any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost, where feasible, and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bark's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, directly or through the
Guarantor and by October 31, 1980 or such later date as the Bank
and the Borrower may agree, contract from the Co-financiers such
loans and credits as shall provide an aggregate amount not
less than the equivalent of $46,000,000 for the financing of the
Borrower's Program on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appro-
priate business, " nancial and public utility practices and
under qualified mr .agement, assisted by qualified and competent
staff.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) at all times take all
steps which are necessary to maintain its existence and its right
to carry on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all
interests in land and other oroperties and all rights, powers, and
privileges which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business including the carrying out of the Project; (ii) at all
times properly operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equip-
ment and other property, and promptly make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices; and (iii), except in the normal course of its business,
not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertakings.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions atisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practices.


﻿-6-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that the operation and maintenance o4 its facilities be
carried out with due regard to the safeguarding of the environ-
ment.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out by December 31, 1982 or such later date as the Bank
and the Borrower may agree, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, a detailed study of the feasibility of conversion of
fuel source from oil to coal for its Dhekelia "B" power station
and of the use of coal as the fuel source for further expansion of
its power generation system.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be crea.ted on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso


﻿-7-
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank: provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchasd thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such pro-
perty; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any long-term debt
unless a reasonable forecast of its net revenues for each year
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be (i) for each
of the years 1980 through 1982, not less than 1.3 times the
Borrower's debt service requirements for such year, and (ii) for
each year thereafter, not less than 1.5 times the Borrower's
debt service requirements for such year, on all its long-term debt
including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this
Section:
(i) the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred, including any debt represented by
bonds;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date the loan contract or
agreement provIding for such debt is entered into, and
(2) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agree-
ment providing for such guarantee is entered into;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources adjusted to take account of power rates in
effect during the period to which the calculation
relates less operating and administrative expenses,
including provision for taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other
charges on debt;
(iv) the term a "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by the Borrower for the fiscal year in which
the debt in question is proposed to be incurred, that


﻿-8-
has been reviewed by the Bank and which both the Bor-
rower and the Bank accept as reasonr'le, provided that
no event shall have occurred since the Bank's acceptance
of such forecast and before the incurrence of the debt
which would have a material adverse effect on the finan-
cial condition or future operating results of the
Borrower;
(v) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund contri-
butions, if any), interest and other charges on debt;
and
(vi) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency
of the Guarantor a debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the rate of
exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by
the Borrower, at the time such valuation is made, for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other
currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange
that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.05. (a) Notwithstanding any provisions to the
contrary in the Previous Loan Agreement and excep as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall from time to time take
all steps necessary or desirable to obtain such adjustments in its
rates for the sale of electricity as will provide the Borrower
with revenues sufficient to yield an annual rate of return
on its average net fixed assets in operation of (i) at least 9% in
the fiscal years following immediately such time as the Borrower
shall be enabled to charge and collect payment for power provided
by the Borrower and consumed throughout the Republic of Cyprus,
and (ii) until such time, at least 3% in fiscal year '980, 4% in
fiscal year 1981, 5% in fiscal year 1982 and 6% in the following
fiscal years.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the rate of return in respect of any fiscal year
shall be calculated by relating the Borrower's net
income from operations for that year to the average
of the net value of fixed assets in operation
during that fiscal year;


﻿-9-
(ii)   the term "net income from operations" means gross
operating revenues from electric power, less all
operating, administrative and overhead expenses
including depreciation, taxes and levies, if any,
or any payments in lieu thereof, but witho.ut
deduction of interest or other charges on debt;
and
(iii) the term "average of the net value of fixed assets
in operation" means: one-half of the sum of (A) the
value of the Borrower's gross fixed assets in
operation less accumulated depreciation calculated
on a straight-line basis at rates acceptable to the
Bank and less customers' contributions towards
capital expenditure all determined in accordance
with methods of valuation and revaluation accept-
able to the Bank at the beginning of the fiscal
year, plus (B) the value of the Borrower's gross
fixed assets in operation less accumulated depreci-
ation so calculated and less customers' contri-
butions towards capital expenditure all determined
as aforesaid at the end of the year in question.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) (i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Guarantor or the Borrower to
withdraw the proceeds of any credit or loan
made to it for the financing of the Borrower's
Program under the Co-financing Agreements
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms thereof, or
(B) any such credit or loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.


﻿- 10 -
(ii) Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancel'-tion, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Guarantor or the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Borrower's Program are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
(b) the Electricity Development Law shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or wai-7ed so as to adversely
affect the carrying out of the Project or the operations or
financial condition of the Borrower or the efficiency of the
Borrower's management or personnel.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof namely, that the event specified
in paragraph (a) (i) (B) or paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The date JeAK'-L-5X \3 , is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Electricity Authority of Cyprus
15 Photiou Stavrou Pitta Street
P.O. Box 4506
Nicosia, Cyprus
Cable address:                      Telex:
GRID                               2432
Nicosia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
\CA Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY OF CYPRUS
By
Authorized Representa ive


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation
of amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Equipment and materials                       14,200,000
(2) Installation and                                 300,000
consultants' services
(3) Unallocated                                    1,500,000
TOTAL
16,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are


﻿- 13 -
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Bank aLe not needed to meet other expenditures.
4.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of the Borrower's Program, con-
sists of expagsion and reinforcement of the Borrower's trans-
mission and distribution system and includes the following Parts:
Part A:   Transmission System Expansion and Reinforcement
(1) The construction and placing into operation of about ten
132 kV line and transformer bays and about nine 66 kV line
and transformer bays;
(2) The installation and placing into operation of about four
132/11 kV transformers totalling about 90 MVA, and about
eight 66/11 kV transformers totalling about 95 MVA, together
with associated switchgear; and
(3) The construction and placing into operation of about 28 miles
of 132/66 kV double circuit overhead transmission lines.
Part B:   Distribution System Expansion and Reinforcement
(1) The construction and placing into operation of about 120
miles of 11 kV overhead lines and 36 miles of 11 kV under-
ground cables;
(2) The construction and placing into operation of about 270
miles of low voltage lines and about 15 miles of low voltage
cables; and
(3) The construction, installation, and placing into operation of
about 135 ground mounted distribution transformers totalling
about 54 MVA, and about 450 pole mounted distribution trans-
formers totalling about 45 MVA.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1983
through   November 1, 1994                 665,000
On May 1, 1995                                  705,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.65%
before maturity
More than three years but not                         3.30%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                           6.00%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                        7.15%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                              8.25%
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of internacional
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for small items such as fuses and low voltage
insulators may be let under the Borrower's procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 18 -
C1   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a fincal decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall


﻿- 19 -
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         day of       , 199$0.
FOR SECRETARY


