               Document of
            The World Bank




                                               Report No: 36541

 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(COFN-04360 PPFI-Q1020 PPFI-Q1021 IDA-33150)

                  ON A

          LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR20.5 MILLION
     (US$28.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                 TO THE

         REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                  FOR A

NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




               June 29, 2006

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                   Currency Unit = FCFA
                                       US$ 1.00 = CFA Franc 614

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1    December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB         African Development Bank
ANCR        National Association of Rural Communities (Association Nationale des Communautes
            Rurales)
APCR        Association of Chief Executives of Rural Communities (Association des Présidents des
            Communautés Rurales)
APL         Adaptable Program Lending
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CCG         Consultation Comities (Comites de Concertation - CCGs)
CEPAD       Coordinating Cell for Projects and Programs in Support of Decentralization (Cellule de
            Coordination des Projets et Programmes d'appui a la decentralization)
CGE         Management and Maintenance Committee (Comite de gestion d'entretien)
CNDCL       National Council for the Development of Local Communities (Conseil National de
            Developpment des Collectivities Locales)
CNC         Cellule Nationale de Coordination du PNIR (National Project Coordination Unit)
CRs         Communites Ruralse(Rural Communities)
DCL         Department of Local Communities ((Direction del Collectivities Locales)
DGR         Rural Engineering Deparatment (Direction du genie rural)
FIL         Rural Investment Fund (Fonds d'Investissment Rural)
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
FSI         Innovation Support Fund (Fonds d Appui a l'innovation)
NGOs        Non-Governmental Organizations
MOU         Memorandum of Understanding
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAI         Annual Investment Plan (Plan Annuel d'investissement)
NRIP        National Rural Infrastructure Program
PAI         Annual Investment Plan (Plan Annuel d'Investissment )
PLD         Local Development Plan (Plan local de developpement)
RC          Rural Communities
PSAOP       Agriculture Services and Producer Organization Project (Programe des Services Agricoles
            et d'Appui aux Organisations de Producteurs)
UNDP United Nations Development Program

                                 Vice President:     Gobind Nankani
                               Country Director      Madani M. Tall
                                Sector Manager       Sanjivi Rajasingham
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Moctar Thiam

                                          SENEGAL
                   NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8: Summary of the Borrower's contribution                                  27

Project ID: P057996                                                  Project Name: NATIONAL RURAL
                                                                     INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Team Leader: Moctar Thiam                                            TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                            L/C/TF Number: COFN-04360;
                            PROJECT                                                                  PPFI-Q1020;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q1021; IDA-33150
   Country/Department: SENEGAL                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (48%); General transportation sector (20%); General
                            water, sanitation and flood protection sector (12%); Other social services (10%); General
                            education sector (10%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (S); Improving labor markets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/03/1998                                     Effective:                           02/08/2001
     Appraisal: 09/09/1999                                         MTR:                             05/17/2004
      Approval: 01/27/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV. OF SENEGAL/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:      FIDA

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader at ICR:             Moctar Thiam                                   Susanne Holste
ICR Primary Author:             James O. Wright


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the National Rural Infrastructure Project (NRIP) were to: (i) improve decentralized local
governance and local capacity; (ii) establish participatory and decentralized mechanisms for selecting,
funding and implementing rural community investment programs; (iii) strengthen the national institutions
supporting decentralization; and (iv) implement basic infrastructure in a selected number of communities.

The project was designed as an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) to support a three-phase program over
a twelve-year period (FY01-FY12). This long-term commitment was critical in order to provide sustained
institutional reform in support of the Program's central objectives: contributing to the revitalization of the
rural economy, reducing poverty and improving rural living conditions. This would be accomplished by
promoting decentralized rural development and strengthening local governance.

The first four-year period would be used to test and establish mechanisms for sustainable decentralized
infrastructure planning and implementation, strengthen the capacity of RCs to operate and maintain
investments and reinforce the national institutions responsible for decentralization. The first phase was also
to include a program to improve intra-RC community roads and to test maintenance strategies. Key reforms
would include: (i) reinforcing fiscal decentralization; (ii) strengthening decentralization with regard to local
participation and capacity building; and (iii) strengthening the local capacity to organize and present local
interests at all levels.

The objective of reducing rural poverty was particularly appropriate in the context of Senegal. A 1994/95
survey had shown that the overall national poverty level was 33.5%, but that poverty was concentrated in
rural areas. The poverty level in rural areas was 44% compared with 16.4% in urban areas. The project
supported the Government of Senegal's Policy Letter on Decentralized Rural Development which was
adopted in 1999 as part of its efforts to implement its 1996 reforms, with the primary focus on poverty
reduction and strengthening decentralization as a means to promote socio-economic development.

Finally, the project was consistent with Senegal's CAS, which focused on reducing poverty by creating
income opportunities and by improving basic services and infrastructure: (a) supporting policies in support
of economic growth; and (b) supporting social and economic infrastructure while improving the social
sustainability and efficiency of development programs.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

Support for Decentralized Rural Development (US$10.7 million).             This component was designed to
support and strengthen the institutional, financial and human resource capacity of rural local governments.
The first cluster of activity would support the Government's efforts for fiscal and financial reforms to
improve the RCs' revenue generation and financial management. The second cluster would strengthen the
local governments' abilities to manage the local development process and improve the transparency and
responsiveness to the demands of the rural population. The third cluster would focus on national level
institutions: (i) to strengthen the capacity for monitoring and evaluation of the National Council for the
Development of Local Communities, in order to guide rural decentralization policy and to harmonize



                                                     - 2 -

approaches; (ii) to reinforce the capacity of the Department of Local Communities as the implementation
agency for decentralization; and (iii) to assist the Association of Rural Council Presidents to improve the
quality of services to its members.

Local Investment Fund (LIF) (US$13.3 million). The LIF was the mechanism for transferring financial
resources to local governments to fund priority infrastructure micro-projects (health and maternity posts,
schools, water supply and sanitation, culverts, etc.) identified in their Local Development Plans and Annual
Investment Programs. Selected investments would be funded through cost sharing by the Local
Development Plan (PLD), local governments' own budgets and beneficiary contributions. The yearly
allocation of the PLD to RCs was to be calculated based on population and the UNDP human development
index. Counterpart funding by local governments and beneficiaries was to be based on a co-financing
matrix included in the Project Implementation Manual.

The LIF was designed to operate through two financing windows: the Rural Investment Fund, representing
80% of the LIF that would finance basic public infrastructure and the Innovation Support Fund (20% of
the funds) that would be an action-research tool to provide access to a slightly larger menu of investment
options, including collective productive infrastructure.

Community Roads Program (US$11.6 million). This included three clusters of activities: (i) contributions
to improve basic access in 60 RCs targeted by the LIF. Using the LIFs planning and management
principals, each RC would receive a yearly budget for road improvement based on a service-level
approach. RCs would cost-share local investment costs with cash or in-kind contributions and would be
responsible for road maintenance. (ii) pilot mechanisms for community road management and maintenance
would be undertaken as outlined in the Framework for the National Rural Transport Strategy; and (iii)
assistance to the Department of Rural Engineering of the Ministry of Agriculture to define its mission and
reinforce its ability to deal with the environmental aspects of the project. This component was to be
implemented in cooperation with the Second Transport Sector Project, which was providing funding to link
the 60 RCs to the main road network and with the Agriculture Services and Producer Organization Project,
which was supporting the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture.

Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$6.0). This would cover: (i) project coordination and
financial management; and (ii) the establishment and operation of the monitoring and evaluation system of
the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. No formal quality assessment was carried out for the project. This
rating is based on the project's consistency with: (i) the Government's decentralization reforms as
expressed through its Policy Letter on decentralized rural development adopted as part of the
implementation of its 1996 reforms; and (ii) the Bank's CAS, which focused on reducing poverty by
creating income opportunities and improving basic services and infrastructure in rural areas. In addition,
the project design was based on key lessons learned from previous rural infrastructure projects in Africa
including the importance of representation and accountability in local governance and the need to address
the existing weak mechanisms for fiscal transfers, tax collection and revenue generation at the local level.




                                                      - 3 -

Project preparation accurately diagnosed the key development constraints, and measures were included to
address them. The NRIP sought to broaden local decision-making by encouraging increased participation
by beneficiary communities. The project called for Community Management Forums to include elected
council members as well as other segments of the population to identify and prioritize local needs and
investment options. Criteria for selecting beneficiary communities were poverty-based and ensured that the
poorest would benefit the most. Capacity building was included to ensure that local governments and
project beneficiaries would be able to manage of much of the decentralized rural development process.
Project preparation was highly participatory, involving all stakeholders including the donor community,
public institutions at the national and local levels and the beneficiaries. The government played an
important role in this process.

Given the complexity and innovative nature of the project, the design established clear implementation
arrangements, laid out the roles of the actors at the national and local levels and included well-defined
responsibilities for, implementing agencies, local service providers, private contractors and consultants.
The project provided for substantial capacity building, technical assistance and training to ensure that local
governments and beneficiaries could manage decentralized development, finance and procurement.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Achievement of Objective is rated highly satisfactory. The project met its objectives and greatly altered
the governance landscape of Senegal's Rural Communities. It brought improvements in local governance
and participation, including, transparent procurement for public services, improved management of local
public finance, and the unusually successful establishment of a disbursement/transfer system for public
funds from the center to local governments through the public treasury.

The project has improved local governance and capacity by introducing participatory development
processes, providing the opportunity for local governments to "learn by doing" and to adjust practices over
time. Beneficiary RCs have internalized these processes and adopted them as "the only game in town".
Local elected officials have been empowered and have gained the capacity to manage local development in
close partnership with local populations, including women, youth, and other stakeholders.

The project has built the capacity of national institutions including the DCL, the ANCR and the DGCPT,
to support decentralization and participatory local government development. The project did not establish a
monitoring and evaluation system within the CNDCL.            Rather, it created the Coordination Unit for
Decentralization Programs (CEPAD) to address the need for monitoring decentralized programs and
projects. This and other adjustments, including the transformation of the former APCR into a more
dynamic organization, the National Association of Rural Councilors (ANCR) reflected improvements in the
institutional landscape. Through the improved ANCR, local governments have begun to play important
roles in lobbying and mobilizing political support for the design and implementation of a more robust
program to extend achievements from this project to all rural communities in Senegal.

A fully operational decentralized system for the transfer of public resources to local governments has been
established. The project greatly impacted the public treasury department and succeeded in fine-tuning and
operationalizing the system for transferring funds to decentralized entities. All projects funds earmarked for
local governments have been successfully transferred through the public treasury system. The management
of these funds at the central and local levels was satisfactory. The partnership built between this project,
the Public Treasury Department and local authorities now provides a vehicle for other donors to use in the



                                                     - 4 -

future.

The Project consolidated participatory and decentralized mechanisms for selecting, funding and
implementing community investment programs. It achieved higher than expected results; 110 RCs have
been covered by project interventions as compared to 90 initially planned. Seven to 8 infrastructure projects
were built per RC compared to the 2 to 3 initially planned. The success of the infrastructure component
was largely due to the mobilization of the LGs and their initiative to choose and implement projects
according to their own priorities, synergies developed between decentralization and devolution.
Infrastructure was planned and executed involving collaboration between LGs and the staff of the
decentralized services of the various sectors, ensuring conformity with sectoral requirements. The
implementation of infrastructure also brought about improvements in the local private sector, which can
now prepare and submit bidding documents and implement infrastructure projects in the in RCs.

The overarching objective of the NRIP was to improve the welfare of rural communities. An impact study
based on semi-annual panel surveys of 850 households over the period 2002-20005 showed marked
improvements in the living conditions of beneficiary households. Household incomes in the project target
areas had increased by 25%. The project's impacts also include improvements in health, and measurable
progress in the weight and height of children under three years old. Households benefited from improved
access to essential services, most importantly reducing the time needed for reaching schools. The fiscal
revenues of RCs in the project area improved by a multiple of 2.8, and the purchasing power of beneficiary
households rose by 6.8%.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Support reform of the rural fiscal and financial management system: All studies planned were carried out
successfully. The studies identified key issues and proposed reforms for rural fiscal and financial
management. Studies on financial transfers to LGs and on reforms to broaden the rural tax base have been
completed. The Government fully adopted the recommendations and agreed on how to implement them.
The GOS has already proposed an increase of public transfers through both the LGs' investment fund
(FECL) and the operating fund (FDD) beginning in the current fiscal year. Additional steps will be taken to
increase LG tax receipts. Other studies were carried out to improve the effectiveness of the DCL and to
transform APCR into a National Association of Rural Advisors (ANCR). A study to assess the feasibility
and usefulness of different local taxes was conducted with tests in nine RCs. Training was provided to staff
of the directorates responsible for carrying out the reforms.

Capacity building of local governments: The project recruited consulting firms or NGOs to support the
LGs. They assisted 110 RCs with participatory diagnosis and the formulation of local development plans
(PLD), Annual Investment Plans (PAI), Local Training Plans (PLF) and Local Communication Plans
(PLC). As the project progressed, costs were reduced by recruiting community mobilization agents
(ANICOM) to replace NGOs and consultants. In addition, the project recruited community assistants
(administrative agents-ASCOM) to assist RC presidents in the daily management of local affairs. The
project provided training to all local stakeholders including elected officials, ANICOMs, ASCOMs, CCGs,
maintenance committee members, staff of devolved services and the private sector. Training included
participatory planning of local development, procurement, operation and maintenance of public
infrastructure, management, and local finance.

Support for national-level institutions: The project financed the formulation of a strategic framework for
the Directorate of Local Governments and facilitated the transformation of the national Association of
Rural Council Presidents (APCR) into a more inclusive Association of Rural Councilors (ANCR) by


                                                      - 5 -

training members and providing equipment for their headquarters. There was also a comprehensive
training program for staff of the DCL, ANCR, the Directorate of Public Treasury and the Directorate of
Debt and Investment - DDI). The project also provided equipment to DCL and DGCPT.

Component 2: Local Investment Fund

Each of the 110 RCs supported by the project set up their own Community Management Forum (CCG)
which managed the implementation of infrastructure. By the end of the project, 850 micro projects had been
implemented of which 677 were for the RIF and 183 were under the Innovation Support Fund. This
included 298 water supply projects, 141 schools, 140 health centers and health posts, 114 livestock
projects, 60 projects for the promotion of women's activities, 34 for agriculture, 21 for youth and sports,
24 for commerce and 18 miscellaneous projects.

More than the expected outputs were achieved and more Rural Communities were served than planned. The
project covered 110 Rural Communities (versus 60 initially planned) and each RC constructed 7 to 8
projects compared to 2 to 3 initially planned. Implementation of the infrastructure component was the full
responsibility of local governments, which used local participation, provided counterpart contributions and
contracted with local private contactors using agreed guidelines in the project implementation manuals.

The project also developed and disseminated standards and best practices for participatory local
development, which are documented in manuals and plans. These include manuals for (i) water supply and
sanitation projects; (ii) community level procurement; (iii) community finance; (iv) training local
participants and; (v) project supervision, participatory monitoring and evaluation at the local level.

This component received strong backing from the Government and local governments who provided almost
16% (US$ 2.5 million) of the Local Investment Fund. Because implementation involved sectoral staff, the
transfer of staff (teachers, nurses etc.) was achieved quickly ensuring that the assets would be used.
Beneficiary communities have set up maintenance committees and set aside funds for operation and
maintenance. Operation and maintenance is not yet fully satisfactory and will require additional efforts by
local governments. Following the project mid-term review, the Bank team agreed to some reductions in
local financial contributions for specific micro-projects such as medium size water supply systems, to
reward social inclusion (women's involvement) and maintenance of facilities already funded.

Component 3: Community Roads

The construction and improvement of rural roads has had an important impact on beneficiaries. Work
began slowly. Preliminary and detailed studies identified the selection of roads to be improved. Training of
works supervisors and contractors, including the use of labor-intensive techniques, was conducted before
works began. IDA, with co-financing by IFAD, has financed 247 Km of roads in 26 RCs. Funds from
AfDB and OPEC financed roads in 94 RCs. The roads, which totaled 735 km, have had a large impact in
terms of improved access to markets and to social services. The project provided income opportunities for
local communities, during the implementation phase. It also provided support in planning, implementation,
maintenance and construction supervision.

This component has provided the basis for a national rural transport strategy, which has already been
adopted by the Government. Personnel of the Rural Engineering Department (DGR) received resources for
project activities and benefited from training. The component exceeded expectations Additional financing
secured after Board approval from AfDB and OPEC was used to extend the scope to 982 km in 92 RCs
from the 614 km in 60 RCs originally planned.


                                                      - 6 -

Component 4: Project Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation

The Project Coordination Unit established under the Ministry of Agriculture provided the support needed to
achieve the project objectives. It was supported by eight Regional Coordinating Offices. The PCU: (i)
prepared yearly work programs and budgets for each component following the provisions of the project
manuals; (ii) oversaw the implementation of work plans; (iii) set up a monitoring and evaluation system for
progress reporting and impact assessment; (iv) established an information and communication system
which provided project information to all stakeholders and the beneficiaries ; (v) carried out a study,
documenting the project's impact on the rural population; and (vi) managed project funds successfully as
confirmed by external auditors of the PCU and other implementing agencies. In addition, it provided
operational support to the national institutions in charge of decentralization, helping them to support local
governments to manage decentralized development and to prepare PLDs and PAI.

A monitoring and evaluation system was established and an independent impact evaluation of the project
was carried out by the PCU jointly with a Senegalese university (Université Gaston Berger de Saint-Louis)
and a French university (CERDI Université D'Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand). The research team gathered
data from semi-annual household surveys and documented project impacts, especially on poverty in rural
communities. This new type of monitoring methodology was carried out every six months and provided
continuous monitoring and feedback to the project team which enabled adjustments in implementation as
lessons were gained. Major impact evaluations and beneficiary studies were produced for the mid-term
review and at project completion.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

It is not possible to calculate economic return in the type of project with small investments and benefits that
cannot be accurately quantified. Rather, the project focused on measuring the overall impact in improving
livelihood conditions in rural areas, as mentioned above.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:


Institutional development is rated substantial. The training, equipment and reforms implemented under
this project led to improvement of the institutional framework for decentralization and local development.
The project strengthened institutional capacity at the local level leading to improved, technical and financial
management. As the new participatory processes introduced under the project became accepted as the
"only game in town", local governance improved considerably, with greater involvement of vulnerable
groups and women in local institutions. The institutionalization of Community Management Forums
(CCGs) and the role of these committees in local development, the improvement of the public transfer
system and the improved management practices all facilitated transparency and local accountability. In
addition, studies completed during implementation proposed important changes that have been adopted by
Government, including increasing the budget transfer to LGs. Their implementation is already under way,
which will result in marked improvements in local resources and budgeting.

At the national level, full implementation started in 2001 with the creation of the Project Coordination Unit.
A new Ministry of Decentralization took charge of implementation in mid-2002 and persuaded Government



                                                      - 7 -

to legalize participatory planning at the local level. Coordination, monitoring and evaluation systems were
improved and the M&E system became fully operational at that time with the recruitment of an M&E focal
point paired with a local surveyor in all regional offices. A computerized database was also set up for
monitoring LG activities from participatory planning to the implementation of micro-projects.

The project helped the Directorate of Public Treasury to gain the additional capacity and to operationalize
an effective system for transferring funds from the centre to local governments. Through training of its
staff, the provision of additional equipment and the formulation of operational tools including manuals and
improved guidelines, the DGCPT's transfer system and the management of public resources at the local
level have been improved.

The project resulted in better coordination between decentralization and devolution. It created improved
coordination between national institutions involved in decentralization and sectoral departments. At the
local level, the improved institutional framework for decentralized development resulted in the increased
implication of devolved services at all stages of local development, including needs identification, planning
and implementation of investment plans, ensuring conformity with sectoral development plans. The Water
Department has elaborated the Millennium Water and Sanitation Program (PEPAM) using the NRIP and
other community-based projects for local implementation. In addition, it systematized, a water sector
development plan that will be annexed to the local development plans of each RC. The Transport Ministry
has formulated a strategy for building community roads that was successfully tested by the NRIP. The
Education and Health Ministries have assisted LGs to implement schools and health centers and to ensure
that project facilities aligned with sector policies.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Because of the large response from RCs, the allocated resources did not meet the demand. The project
reached more than the number of RCs initially planned (110 RCs compared to 90 planned), but the
expressed needs of local governments exceed the amount of resources needed to make a much greater
impact on poverty.

The devaluation of the US dollar from FCFA 733 in 2001 to FCFA 540 during the project period increased
the cost of the project in local currency. As a result less funding was available than originally planned.

Agriculture and rural activities were hit by severe natural disasters in 2002 (flood and off-season rainfall in
the Northern and Southern regions, and drought in the Groundnut Basin) and in 2004 (locust upsurge)
hindering dramatically beneficiaries' financial capabilities. The Government partially alleviated this burden
by increasing its counterpart funding through the FECL.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Government's commitment to the project wavered in 2002, stemming from disagreement within
Government on how the project should be implemented. This period was marked by political instability in
the Ministry of Decentralization, which constrained the organization of municipal elections and affected
implementation. In addition, frequent changes in the Ministry of Agriculture, which hosted the PCU
affected implementation progress (there were three Ministers during project period).

The project was particularly sensitive to the political situation and initially suffered considerable delays,



                                                      - 8 -

especially involving activities to be carried out by national institutions or requiring government initiative.
These resulted in difficulties transferring funds to local governments and delays in launching key reform
studies. However, Government agencies slowly adjusted to the new system, and a number of agreements
were reached between the PCU and these institutions including the signature of an MOU between with the
DGCPT and the fine-tuning of operational procedures, leading to satisfactory performance during the final
years of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The NRIP helped to establish a transparent and inclusive local development planning system by using
improved work programming with the RCs and by mobilizing local agencies representing various sector
ministries involved in the process. The PCU and its regional staff played a key role in this process. They
prepared all operational tools (manuals, etc.) needed to ensure efficient management of local development
and management of project resources at the local level. They carried out supervision missions and prepared
supervision and financial management reports. But at the beginning of the program, weak management
both at the PCU and the Ministry of Agriculture where it was located, resulted in delays in implementing
activities in the field. Things improved dramatically when a new Technical Manager position (Directeur
des Operations) was created and increasing involvement of the Ministry of Finance in the steering
committee.

The Directorate for Local Governments (DCL), spearheaded reforms proposed by this project. Key studies
on fiscal transfers and rural finance were delayed due to the lack of leadership and shortage of staff within
the directorate at the beginning of the project. However, adjustments were made that resulted in the
completion of the key studies before project completion. The recommendations of those studies have
already been adopted by the Government.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The original cost estimate of the project was US$ 42.9 million. The project disbursed about 98% of IDA's
original approval of US$ 28.5 million and about 83% of IFAD original approval of SDR 5.4 million.
Additional financing was provided by AfDB (US$ 4.39 million) and OPEC (US$ 1.58 million) after Board.
The Government of Senegal and beneficiary local governments contributed US$ 4.02 million and US$ 2.90
million respectively.

Initial problems during implementation delayed disbursements to local governments considerably. However,
following adjustment by the Government on a number of issues including the adoption of new transfer
procedures negotiated by the project, disbursement of funds to LGs quickly reached high levels and all of
the resources planned for micro-projects were disbursed during the last two and a half years of project
implementation.

Following a request by the Government, the Bank granted an extension of the closing date of the IDA credit
from June 30, 2005 to December 30, 2005. In addition, the Bank accepted a reallocation request from the
Government which increased allocations to the micro-credit and consultant categories. The reallocation did
not require changes in PDOs. The increase of the matching grants category enabled more communities to
be targeted. An increase in consultant fees was justified because the project staff, initially to be covered
under operating costs, was paid as consultants, and the creation of an additional regional coordination unit
(for the recently created Region of Matam) increased consultant fees.




                                                     - 9 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


Sustainability is likely. The reforms to local governance induced by the project are likely to be sustained
provided that the Government's commitment to decentralization and the transfer of public resources to local
governments continue. The recent decision by the Government to increase government transfers through the
Operations fund (FDD) and investment funds (FECL) and the decentralization of the management of
sectoral programs (health and Education) should contribute to the sustainability of the participatory
processes introduced by the project and internalized by all stakeholders, Moreover, the NRIP successor, the
Participatory National Local Development Project, is built upon the premise, that an increasing part of
Government funding to LGs will be channeled through the mechanisms developed under the project.

The need to provide for operation and maintenance of investments made under the NRIP was emphasized
during implementation. Beneficiaries have been given the responsibility for maintaining the investments
within each RC, and a large effort in training local personnel and setting up operations and management
committees (CGE). In addition maintenance manuals were formulated and disseminated, and CGE
members trained on their use. However, sustainability will vary among RCs because, based on
observations in the field at the end of the project, some of the investments are not being fully maintained.
For example, in the case of water supply, there is concern that community efforts and resources may be
insufficient to provide adequate maintenance. Although communities have established maintenance
procedures, continued efforts are needed to achieve a "maintenance culture" and to ensure long-time
sustainability of all the infrastructure. In the design of the Government's National Local Development
Program (PNDL) and the Bank's supporting Participatory Local Development Project (PLDP), lessons
learned from this project regarding sustainability were taken into consideration. This follow-on project will
provide continued support to local institutions and management committees in order to sustain the success
of this project.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

This successful project has provided the justification for a second project. The Government of Senegal has
seized on this success and the momentum created in local government management and has prepared a
more comprehensive framework for national local development that has already received full adherence of
all donors operating in the country, including the World Bank. For this follow-on initiative, the Bank has
consolidated its local development portfolio by merging the Social Investment Fund project with the NRIP
to support the Government's proposed comprehensive National Local Development Program. An audit has
been completed to take full stock of all PCU and BRC assets, which will be transferred to the Executive
Secretariat, set up within the Prime Minister's Office to coordinate the implementation of all local
development interventions in the country. Other assets created at the local level will remain the property of
local governments and the rural populations, who are responsible for operation and maintenance. Local
governments have established maintenance committees and a maintenance fund, which will need continued
support to help them develop a more sustainable maintenance culture.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:




                                                     - 10 -

Performance by the Bank during preparation is rated satisfactory. This project began a complex
undertaking designed to implement rural infrastructure throughout the country over a twelve-year period in
collaboration with rural communities. The Bank undertook a large consultation effort, which involved
various government institutions, the donor community and local governments, and was able to prepare the
project in a relatively short period (one year) considering lessons learned from its experience worldwide and
other donors' in-country experience. The Bank authorized a PPF to be used to facilitate project
preparation. Initially five rural communities were selected to test the proposed methodologies, and lessons
learned from this experience were used to fine-tune the project implementation arrangements.

Project preparation was done jointly with IFAD and the Government. The Bank provided adequate staffing
during preparation missions including a rural development specialist, an infrastructure engineer, financial
analysts, rural road specialists. Three project preparation/appraisal missions were jointly conducted by the
Bank and IFAD, beginning in May 1998. The project was appraised in September 1999. Preparation
missions laid out the 12-year program and detailed the first phase.

Given the innovative nature of the project, its ambitious scope and the need to involve a large number of
actors at different levels of Government, preparation was a considerable effort. The successful preparation
effort has enabled good execution.


7.2 Supervision:


Bank performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried out on a
regular basis and the skills mix for site visits was adequate for addressing implementation issues.
Organized jointly with IFAD and the government, there were 12 supervision missions beginning in October
2000 up to the final mission in October 2005. Early missions helped government institutions to become
familiar with the project and to begin their involvement. Given the complexity of the project and its wide
geographical extension, each mission had to deal with a large number of issues. These included, inter alia,
project financing issues (at national and local levels), decentralization issues (mechanisms of
decentralization were developing), works supervision issues, environmental safeguards and accounting,
procurement and disbursement issues. One important intervention of the Bank, which was a key to the
success of the project, was the Bank mission's discussion and agreement with the DGCPT on proposed
practical ways to overcome impediments to disbursements to RCs through the public treasury.

The Bank maintained throughout the project life a strong and fruitful co-leadership between its Transport
and Rural Development sectors (AFTTR and AFTS4). The supervision missions received strong
management support allowing the team to adopt novel ideas to solve implementation issues. Despite the
complexity of the project, Bank missions were able to keep the various actors involved and assist them to
complete the project satisfactorily.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Despite the inherent complexity of the project,
particularly the need to work at multiple levels and to introduce new development strategies at the local
government level, the Bank was able to guide the project to a largely successful conclusion.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:




                                                     - 11 -

Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The Government of Senegal made the
decentralization and empowerment of rural communities the central element of its rural development
strategy. The project had strong backing from the highest levels in Government. The Government
participated fully in the preparation and formulation of the project concept. An inter-ministerial committee
was established and chaired by the President of the Association of Rural Councilors (APCR), and included
representation from civil society. The GOS fully participated in preparation missions and in major
discussions on project designs and the elaboration of the concept paper. The GOS submitted a Policy Letter
on Decentralized Rural Development based on broad consultation with civil society and the donor
community, which laid out an approach to social and economic development in rural areas. It also
submitted a strategic framework, which supported the project's involvement in rural roads improvement.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. During the early phases of the project
there was hesitance in some parts of Government. Government was not adequately supporting the
decentralization of the fiscal process at mid-term, and Implementation Progress was rated unsatisfactory.
There was a need to improve the Local Investment Fund, strengthen the implementation arrangements for
rural roads and simplify and translate project documents. There were delays in payments for local works.
Institutional instability within the Ministry of Decentralization contributed to further delays. In addition,
due to increased incomprehension, the DGCPT was very resistant to operational procedures needed to
ensure the transfer of funds to local governments. As a result, through the first two years of project
implementation; funds were not transferred to LGs for the implementation of their Annual Investment
Plans. However, progressively, as the PCU staff became fully operational, field operators were selected,
and a new Ministry of Decentralization took over in mid-2002. This brought improvement in the project's
implementation framework. In addition, through its hierarchy, the DGCPT finally adopted changes and
became much more cooperative with the project implementation unit, which facilitated the transfer of funds
to local governments. Coordination, monitoring and evaluation were enhanced by selecting rural
investigators and computerizing the implementation manual.

Given the ambitious scope of the project, some delays were inevitable and provided the opportunity to
measure the challenges involved. In the end, Government actions facilitated project implementation,
particularly efforts within the Ministry of Finance, which provided adequate support for the project's
success, including counterpart funding in full. In spite of difficulties, there was much progress establishing
national-level system to support the RCs. The institutional arrangements and experience gained will be
useful in subsequent phases.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


Implementing agency performance is rated marginally satisfactory. The PCU was in charge of the
day-to-day management of project activities, and supported other implementation agencies. The teams at
the national and regional levels were very effective and developed quickly. Good relationships developed
with local governments and other implementation agencies. It succeeded in managing the complicated
process of developing the organizational capacity of LGs to plan and implement their own local
development.

The PCU successfully managed project resources, which were disbursed to beneficiary LGs and other
service providers using acceptable procedures. Finally, the PCU established a strong partnership with all
partners in local development both at the central and local which have developed a very strong experience
in dealing with communities at the local level.



                                                     - 12 -

At the local level, Rural Communities were in charge of development. They were successful conducting
participatory diagnoses that led to local development plans and implementation. The project objectives were
achieved, but some issues remain to be considered to: (i) avoid delays between the construction of
infrastructure and the formation and training of local management committees; (ii) ensure more training for
CCG members so that infrastructure projects are in full compliance with environmental standards; (iii)
focus more on income generating activities and; (iv) improve the supervision of infrastructure works at the
local level.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Despite initial problems, Senegalese agencies at the
national and local levels adapted to the demands of the project and implemented the project largely as
planned.

8. Lessons Learned

·        To be effective, decentralization must be multi-sectoral. It is therefore not practical to anchor
such a project within a technical ministry.       The implementation of decentralization projects requires
political support that can be mobilized beyond technical ministries. This lesson was reflected in the design
of the follow-on operation. Appropriately, the Government has decided to coordinate this project from the
Prime Minister's office which signals its full commitment to decentralized local development.

·        Decentralization is a long-term and comprehensive effort that requires political support. The
major changes expected are likely to meet resistance from some institutions. Therefore considerable effort
is needed for new systems to be established and officials to be educated and convinced to accept changes.
The success of this project was achieved in parallel to another Bank-financed operation (the Social Fund
Project). The Social Fund Project proved that, to achieve successful decentralization, communities have to
play an important role in the process. They can complement the roles of local elected officials if they are
given the appropriate skills and resources. Although the triggers have been met for the next phase of the
originally planned project, the follow-on operation will not be as originally planned. The Bank has decided
to consolidate the two projects in full support of the Government's comprehensive program (National Local
Development Program-PNDL) designed to advance its long-term decentralization agenda. The PNDL will
use a more bottom-up approach than the previous project in order to be more responsive to the RCs.

·        The NRIP has shown that the planning process of Government needed to be modified to use a
bottom-up approach. Therefore, the Government's planning process has been altered in order to reflect the
importance of local development in the framework of national development. There have been major fiscal
and institutional reforms to reflect these changes. In addition, the Government has established a Ministry of
Local Government to coordinate the implementation of local development planning and implementation.

·        To support this type of multi-faceted decentralization program, the importance of the
multi-disciplinary team involved in project supervision was critical in achieving project objectives. The
Bank's team included specialists from ESSD, transport, water, environment and other sectors. This
involved open exchanges of advice and opinion, compromise and a process of learning by doing. Despite
the configuration of the team, management from all sectors showed support and patience when initial
project implementation was not providing expected outcomes.

·        Sustainability depends on the degree to which the beneficiaries internalize the process. The



                                                     - 13 -

ability to continue the planning, implementing and monitoring of investments using participatory processes
depends on the continuing to raise funds and maintain community mobilization.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower prepared its own completion report of which the summary is attached in Annex 9. In
addition, the Borrrower has reviewed a draft of this ICR and made several comments, many of which were
editorial in nature. The Borrower agrees with the ICR and finds it of great quality.

(b) Cofinanciers:

IFAD agrees with document and and finds it of great quality.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (Rapport d'achevement)
Impact Study
Results of the Impact Study
Overall Review of the Status for National Rural Infrastructure Program (30 September 2005)
Reports on completion of components 1,2,3 and 4




                                                    - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate


RCs received planned training                72 of RCs training:( 80%)                   110 rural communities trained (exceed the
                                                                                         initial target of 72 rural communities at the
                                                                                         end of the project)

Participating RCs have prepared local        Local development plans prepared in 90 RCs Local development plans prepared in 110
development plans (LDP) and have             and annual investment programs              RCS and annual investment programs
implemented annual plans (AIP) and have      implemented..                               implemented (exceed initial target of 90 RCs
implemented annual investment programs                                                   at the end of the project).

At least 60 % of approved micro-projects in  60% of micro-projects completed             70% of micro-projects completed
year (1, 2 and 3) have been successfully     successfully every year.                    successfully every year.
completed.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Promulgated decrees and other regulations to Decrees promulgated                         Decrees promulgated
implement the decentralization law


Local institutions are set up and            Local institutions set up in 90 RCs         Local institutions set up in 110 rural
administrative and financial support to them                                             communities (exceed the initial target date of
provided                                                                                 90 RCs at the end of the project)


Secretary/accountant nominated at RC level   Secretary/accountant nominated in 90 RCs    Secretary/accountant nominated in all 320
                                                                                         rural communities (exceed initial target of 90
                                                                                         rural communities at the end of the project)


Contractual agreement for rural investment   Agreement signed with 90 RCs                Agreement signed with 100 RCs (exceed
fund signed with 60 RCs                                                                  initial target of 90 RCs at the end of the
                                                                                         project)


60% of the total kilometers of the community 60% of Kilometers maintained                60% of Kilometers maintained
roads improved under NRIP are regularly
maintained



At least 70% of targeted RCs have an         Unqualified final audit in at least 63 RCs  Final audits carried out
unqualified financial audit

1End of project




                                                                - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component in (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Actual/
                                                        Appraisal    Latest    Percentage of
                        Components                       Estimate   Estimate    Appraisal
                                                        US$ million US$ million
1. Support for Decentralized Rural Development                 9.90      10.84    109%
2. Local Investment Fund                                     12.30       17.06    139%
3. Community Roads Program                                   10.00         9.42    94%
4. Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation             5.60      10.15    181%
5. Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                          1.30
Total Contigencies                                             3.80                0%
Total Project Costs                                          42.90       47.47    111%


Note: Contigencies added to components




                                               - 16 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements at appraisal (in US$ million equivalent)


           Expenditure Category                          Procurement method       Total Cost
                                                         Appraisal Estimates
                                                 ICB       NCB      Other    NBF


1. Civil Works                                                9.2                         9.2
                                                              (5.6)                      (5.6)


2. Goods                                             2.3        0.4     0.1   -           2.8
                                                   (1.3)     (0.17)    (0.1)             (1.5)


3. Consultants & Training                                              12.5   -          12.5
                                                                       (8.7)             (8.7)
                                                                                           -
4. Operations costs                                    0          0     3.9   -           3.9
                                                                       (2.7)             (2.7)


5. Matching Funds (1) (microprojects)                                  13.3   -          13.3
                                                                       (8.7)             (8.7)
                                                                                           -
6. PPF                                                                (1.3)   -          (1.3)
                                                                                           -
Total costs                                          2.3      9.6      31.0   -          42.9
Total costs financed by IDA                        (1.3)      (5.8)   (21.4)            (28.5)


Note:
a) Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IDA




                                                 - 17 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)
         Expenditure Category                               Procurement method                     Total Cost
                                                           Actual/Latest Estimates
                                                  ICB          NCB           Other         NBF


1. Civil Works                                                               1,219.45     6,126.28     7,345.7
                                                                            (1,219.45)               (1,219.45)


2. Goods                                          1,010.84       145.75        858.84        538.52    2,554.0
                                                   (805.45)     (116.34)      (858.84)               (1780.63)


3. Consultants services                                                      7,641.65    4,634.43     12,276.1
                                                                            (7,641.65)               (7,641.65)


4. Training                                                                  1,988.12    1,022.91      3,011.0
                                                                            (1,988.12)               (1,988.12)


5. Operations costs                                                           3,833.3    1,665.87      5,499.2
                                                                             (3833.33)               (3,833.33)


6. Matching Funds (microprojects)                                            11,558.3    5,230.22     16,788.5
                                                                           (11,558.29)              (11,558.30)


Total costs                                       1,010.84       145.75      27,099.7    19,218.2     47,474.5
Total costs financed by IDA                        (805.45)     (116.34)    (27,099.7)          -    (28,021.5)

Note:
a) Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by IDA
b) Total IDA amount include MDRI split US$8,897,717 ( December 31, 2003)
c) Additional financing provided after Board - AfDB (US$4.39 million) and OPEC (US$1.59 million)




                                                     - 18 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Appraisal           Actual/Latest           Percentage of
                    Project Component                                   Estimate              Estimate                Appraisal
                                                                     IDA         COF        IDA        COF          IDA         COF


1. Support for Decentralized Rural Development                       7.30         3.40       7.23        3.60       99%        106%
2. Local Investment Fund                                             8.70         4.60      11.92        5.13     137%         112%
3. Community Roads Program                                           7.30         4.30       1.94        7.50       27%        174%
4. Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation                   3.90         2.10       6.93        3.22     178%         153%
5. Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                                1.30         0.00                                 -

Total                                                               28.50        14.40     28.02        19.45      98%         135%

Note:
a) Total IDA amount include MDRI split US$8,897,717
b) Additional financing provided after Board - AfDB (US$4.39 million).and OPEC (US$1.58 million)
c) Details of individual Cofinancing contribution not provided in appraisal report. The US$19.45 million include all contributions




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Given the small scale of the individual investments and that they were dispersed over a large area, it was
not possible to determine an economic rate of return. Nonetheless, information from an impact assessment
carried out in June 2005 sheds light on the benefits created under the project. The following details on the
scope of the project, the main accomplishments and the impact on beneficiary households give an indication
of the benefits of the project.

Main Accomplishments

Number of regions benefited: 11
Number of rural communities (RCs) benefited: 110
Number of villages benefited: 4,659
Population benefited: 2.2 million persons
Number of RCs provided with equipment (office furniture, motorcycles, etc:): 100
Number of local development plans prepared: 110
Funding for local investment: FCFA 6.7 billion
Funding for rural roads: FCFA 3 billion
Micro-projects received by the RCs:

        Water supply                     239
        Health                           109
        Agriculture                       21
        Livestock                         92
        Women's Development               38
        Youth Sport                       16
        Commerce                          19
        Other                             11

Impact Study

An impact study was carried out in June of 2005 covering 850 beneficiary households. The households
had been subjects of a survey carried out by the Department of Projections and Statistics before the project
in 2001. The study examined two groups, one that had benefited from NRIP and a control group that had
not benefited. This enabled a comparison of the communities impacted by NRIP with communities not
impacted.

    ·   Households benefiting from the NRIP experienced a 25% increase in purchasing power.
    ·   Households benefiting from the NRIP experienced improvements in children's health in terms of
        weight by age and height by age.
    ·   The NRIP has improved the time needed for households to gain access to essential services. Most
        significantly, children of households benefiting from NRIP needed ten minutes to travel to school
        compared to 30 minutes by the control group.
    ·   The NRIP helped the RCs to increase revenues by 4.1%. Local tax receipts increased by 2.8%.




                                                   - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              5/20/98                   6    Rural Infrastructure Spec. (1)
                                             Institutional Specialist (1)
                                             Decentralizaton Specialist (1)
                                             Lawyer specialized in ENV (1)
                                              Road Specialist (1)
                                              Agriculture Specialist (1)

              03/13/99                  8    Rural Infrastructure Spec (1)
                                             Lawyer specialized in ENV (1)
                                             Institutional Specialist (1)
                                             Environment Specialist (1)
                                             Highway Engineer (1)
                                             Finanical Management Spec (1)
                                             Decentralization Specialist (1)
                                             Economist (1)

              07/16/99                  9     Rural Development Spec ( 2)
                                             Rural Infrastructure Spec (1)
                                             Lawyer specialized in ENV (1)
                                              Decentralization Specialist
                                             Financial Management Spec (1)
                                             Procurement Specialist
                                             Program Assistant (1)
                                             Highway Engineer (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/17/99                  3    Rural Infrastructure Spec (1)
                                             Rural Development Spec (1)
              10/13/2000                     Task Team Leader

 Supervision
              12/05/2000                6    Co-Task Team Leaders (2)              U               U
                                             Sector Manager (1)
                                             Rural Development Spec. (2)
                                              Sr. Agriculture Specialist
                                             (1)



              04/14/2001                5    Co-Task Team Leader (2)               HS              S
                                              Sr. Agriculture Specialist (1)
                                             Agriculture Specialist(1)
                                             Program Assistant (1)

              09/17/2001                9    Co-Task Team Leaders (2)              S               S
                                             Rural Development Specialist (2)
                                             Rural Transport Specialist (1)



                                              - 21 -

                 Disbursement Officer (1)
                 Procurement Specialist (1)
                 Financial Managemet Spec (1)
                 Team Assistant (1)

06/07/2002    9  Task Team Leaders (2)               S    S
                 Sr. Agriculture Specialist (1)
                 Agriculture Specialist (1)
                 Financial Mgmt Specialist (1)
                 Procurement Specialist (1)
                 Rural Transport Specialist (1)
                 Disbursement Officer (1)
                 Team Assistant (1)

03/25/2003    8  Co-Task Team Leaders (2)            S    S
                 Sr. Agriculture Specialist (1)
                 Agriculture Economist (1)
                 Sr. Water & Sanitation Spec (1)
                 Sr. Environmental Specialist (1)
                 Sr. Procurement Specialist (1)
                 Financial Management Spec (1)

12/05/2003    6  Task Team Leader (2)                S    S
                 Agriculture Economist (1)
                 Procurement Specialist (1)
                 Financial Management Spec (1)
                 Transport Specialist (1)


06/08/2004    10 Task Team Leaader (1)               S    S
                 Sector Manager, Transport (1)
                 Country Manager (1)
                 Water & Sanitation Spec (1)
                 Consultant (1)
                 Financial Management Spec. (1)
                 Procurement Specialist (1)
                 Program Assistant (1)
                 Team Assistant (1)
                 Transport Specialist (1)

11/18/2004    13 Co-Task Team Leaders (2)            S    S
                 Agriculture Specialist (1)
                 Procurement Specialist (1)
                 Financial Management Spec (1)
                 Transport Specialist (1)
                 Water/Sanitation Specialist (1)
                 Social Development Specialist
                 (1)
                 Social Protection Specialist (1)
                 Environment Specialist (1)
                 Consultant, Rural Transport (1)
                 Consultant, CDD (1)
                 Consultant, Water Specialist (1)




                 - 22 -

                   07/22/2005                                  4   Task Team Leader (1)                S    S
                                                                   Financial Management Spec (1)
                                                                   Procurement Specialist (1)
                                                                   Consultant, CDD (1)

 ICR
                   10/09/2005                                 10    Task Team Leaders (1)             HS    HS
                                                                     Agriculture Economist (1)
                                                                    Water/Sanitation Spec (1)
                                                                    Procurement Specialist (1)
                                                                    Financial Mgmt Spec (1)
                                                                    Transport Specialist (1)
                                                                    Consultants (2)
                                                                    Social Dev. Specialist (1)
                                                                    Operations Analyst (1)



(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                         No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                       *                            471
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                        37.43                            230
  Supervision                                                 129.49                            617
  ICR                                                          37.69                             74
  Total                                                       204.61                          1,392


* Staff weeks for identification/preparation are not available




                                                                    - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Report
Development Credit Agreement
Supervision Reports
Mission Aide-memoires
Implementation Status Reports (ISR)




                                       - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's contribution




                      RÉPUBLIQUE DU SÉNÉGAL
           MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DE L'HYDRAULIQUE

              PROJET NATIONAL D'INFRASTRUCTURES RURALES
                          PREMIERE PHASE (PNIR-1)




                      RESUME DE LA CONTRIBUTION
                            DE L'EMPRUNTEUR




                                  AVRIL 2006




                                      - 27 -

L'analyse du niveau de vie des populations rurales, concrétisée en 1999 dans une Lettre de
politique de développement rural décentralisé (LPDRD), a permis d'aboutir à la conclusion que la
condition préalable à l'amélioration du niveau de vie de ces populations est leur meilleur accès à
l'éducation, aux services sociaux et aux infrastructures économiques. En réaction à cette analyse,
encore en 1999, l'État du Sénégal a lancé avec l'appui de la Banque mondiale (BM) et du Fonds
international de développement agricole (FIDA) un Programme national des infrastructures
rurales (PNIR) dont l'objectif principal était « de contribuer à la revitalisation de l'économie
rurale, à la réduction de la pauvreté en milieu rural et à l'amélioration des conditions de vie des
populations rurales du Sénégal en appuyant le développement rural décentralisé et en favorisant
une bonne gestion des affaires locales. » Le PNIR devait avoir 3 phases de 4 ans chacune et être
financé à l'aide d'un Programme de prêt évolutif (PPE). Les objectifs de développement de la
première phase du PNIR, étaient : « (i) améliorer la gouvernance et les capacités au niveau local ;
(ii) mettre en place des mécanismes participatifs et décentralisés de sélection, de financement et de
mise en oeuvre de programmes d'infrastructures rurales ; (iii) renforcer les institutions nationales
de décentralisation ; (iv) mettre en place des infrastructures de base dans les communautés rurales
sélectionnées ». Les objectifs du PNIR s'inscrivent entièrement dans la stratégie du
Gouvernement de développement rural qui vise : (i) le recentrage des processus de
développement local au niveau des populations et des collectivités locales ; et                      (ii)
l'accompagnement des processus de développement rural à la base. Le bien fondé des objectifs a
attiré le financement de plusieurs bailleurs de fonds, notamment le FIDA, la Banque africaine de
développement (BAD) et l'Organisation des pays exportateurs de pétrole (OPEP) et a suscité une
forte demande de toutes les communautés rurales du Sénégal ce qui a rendu son exécution
complexe et a nécessité une forte mobilisation de l'équipe du projet. Malgré cette complexité, le
projet a réussi à atteindre ses objectifs et à obtenir des résultats d'une signification historique dans
une large mesure grâce au dynamisme et au dévouement de l'équipe responsable pour sa gestion.

Objectifs du projet

Le projet a atteint ses objectifs de manière très satisfaisante. Il a amélioré et renforcé le
système de financement des communautés rurales (CR), donné aux communautés rurales des
outils de planification de leur développement et les connaissances nécessaires pour la réalisation
de leurs programmes d'investissement. Les investissements sociaux et les programmes de
construction et de réhabilitation des pistes rurales ont dépassé les objectifs. Les infrastructures
construites ou réhabilités sont dotées de comités d'entretien. Au niveau des CR, les résultats se
matérialisent par : (i) une maîtrise des outils de développement participatif ; (ii) l'adoption des
outils de passation de marché et la transparence dans la gestion ; (iii) le bon fonctionnement des
divers comités crées par les CR ; et (iv) la mobilisation sociale des femmes et la participation des
jeunes et des femmes à la planification et la réalisation de développement des CR.

Le projet comprend quatre composantes :

Composante 1 : Appui au développement rural décentralisé (10,7 millions de dollars)




                                                  - 28 -

Objectif : Renforcer les capacités institutionnelles, humaines et financières des entités
responsables du développement rural.
Les objectifs de la composante ont été réalisés de manière très satisfaisante. Le succès le plus
marquant est sans doute le renforcement des capacités des 110 CR appuyées qui a abouti, pour
chaque CR partenaire du projet, à la préparation et à l'élaboration participative des rapports
diagnostics participatifs (DP), des plans locaux de développement (PLD) et des plans annuels
d'investissement (PAI) ainsi que la création des comités et des commissions qui ont ensuite avec
succès réalisé les objectifs de la deuxième composante. Cet impact, très significatif, se renforcera
certainement car, en parallèle à l'accroissement des capacités techniques, le projet a introduit la
pratique de la gestion démocratique et décentralisée du patrimoine des CR et la programmation de
leur développement, mettant ainsi en oeuvre le développement rural décentralisé et le
renforcement de la bonne gouvernance au niveau local. L'accompagnement de la transformation
de l'Association des présidents des communautés rurales (APCR) en Association nationale des
conseilleurs ruraux (ANCR) est un autre succès du projet car désormais il existe un lien direct
entre les CR et le palier central du gouvernement.

Composante 2 : Fonds d'investissement local (13,3 millions de dollars)

Objectif : Stimuler le développement local grâce à des transferts directs au profit des
communautés rurales destinés à mettre en oeuvre leur plan de développement local et leur
programme
annuel d'investissement.
La composante 2 est également exécutée de manière très satisfaisante. Les infrastructures
construites et livrées sont hautement appréciées par les populations bénéficiaires. Les projets ont
été identifiés selon un processus participatif et le choix de prestataires ainsi que l'exécution des
travaux étaient gérés de manière transparente. Les CR maîtres d'ouvrages ont mis sur pieds divers
comités qui ont été chargés de superviser chaque stade de la mise en oeuvre du microprojet. Sans
exception, les travaux ont été confiés aux entreprises privées. Les CR ont mis sur pieds les
comités de gestion et d'entretien et les fonds d'entretien de 1 % de la valeur de l'investissement
ont été réunis. Les infrastructures correspondaient aux normes nationales et aux plans sectoriels
de développement. Aux écoles et aux centres de santé le Gouvernement a assigné le personnel les
rendant ainsi pleinement opérationnels.

Composante 3 : Programme de désenclavement (11,6 millions de dollars)

Objectifs : Désenclaver les zones rurales et fournir un appui à la Direction du génie rural
La composante a été exécutée de manière satisfaisante. Les pistes réalisées contribuent au
désenclavement des villages et des CR. Leur construction facilite l'utilisation des installations
communautaires par les habitants qui vivent dans les villages situés à la périphérie des
communautés rurales et facilite l'accès des habitants des CR aux marchés dans les autres CR et en
ville. L'entretien doit être assuré par les comités qui sont formés et équipés mais qui n'ont pas
encore commencé à fonctionner en raison de la non réception définitive des travaux.

Composante 4 : Coordination, suivi et évaluation




                                               - 29 -

Objectifs : Coordonner le projet et assurer son suivi et évaluation.
Le comité de pilotage (CP) et la cellule nationale de coordination du PNIR-1 (CNC) ont
réalisé leurs objectifs de manière très satisfaisante. Au succès de la composante ont contribué
le haut placement du CP dans la structure administrative du gouvernement, un fort appui des
administrations centrales et le dévouement de l'équipe du projet. Le succès dans la réalisation du
projet et la transparence de la gestion technique et financière lui ont attiré les félicitations du
Gouvernement qui considère le PNIR1 comme le projet-phare dans la lutte contre la pauvreté
rurale et la confiance de la BM qui, sur la base de ses résultats, prépare la continuation de
l'assistance aux CR.

Les composantes ont été désignées de manière adéquate pour réaliser les quatre objectifs
du projet. Cependant, le démarrage du projet a pris un an de retard car une période d'ajustement
et d'essais était nécessaire aux CR et à l'administration pour s'ajuster au processus de gestion
décentralisé et participative.

Impact sur le développement institutionnel est substantiel. Les CR ont mis sur pied des
cadres de concertation de développement local sous l'égide des comités de concertation et de
gestion (CCG), ont organisé la sélection des prestataires, les passations de marchés, la supervision
d'exécution des travaux et la réception des ouvrages. Les CR ont exécuté toutes ces tâches de
manière transparente et en respectant des normes techniques. C'est la première fois dans l'histoire
du Sénégal que les CR se voient confiés autant de responsabilité et autant de confiance par le
gouvernement central. La conséquence palpable du nouveau rôle des organes de gestion des CR
est l'augmentation de la confiance des populations qui s'est traduite par l'accroissement du taux
de recouvrement des taxes et impôts.

Le facteur majeur indépendant de la volonté du Gouvernement et du projet qui a eu une incidence
sur la mise en oeuvre et les résultats du projet a été la dévaluation du dollar par rapport au franc
CFA qui est passé de 733 francs CFA pour un dollar en 2001 à 540 francs CFA en 2004 en
entraînant l'augmentation des dépenses du projet pour les payements locaux.

La permanence des changements introduits par le projet est très probable. Les changements
de mentalité des membres des CR touchés par le projet seront probablement permanents et ils se
renforceront davantage car le Gouvernement compte poursuivre la politique de décentralisation et
continuer de mettre à leur disposition des finances publiques. Cette durabilité dépend également
de la suite que les bailleurs de fonds et le gouvernement réserveront au programme.

La préparation du projet a pris seulement 12 mois et a eu un caractère participatif ; la BM a
financé les études de faisabilité, fourni les expertises et tiré profit des expériences antérieures. La
phase pilote a permis de tester l'approche. La supervision de la BM a été satisfaisante. La
Banque a suivi de près le projet. Les demandes de non-objection ont été traitées à temps, la BM a
mis à la disposition du projet de l'assistance technique en nombre et en qualité suffisantes. Depuis
2005, les missions de supervision de la Banque ont commencé à préparer la deuxième phase du
projet.
Le Gouvernement a participé de manière satisfaisante dans la préparation du projet en
finançant des phases pilotes et des études qui ont précédé le lancement du PNIR1 pour un



                                                 - 30 -

montant de 1,3 millions de $ US. Le PNIR a été considéré comme une contribution majeure du
pays dans la réalisation du programme de décentralisation et de lutte contre la pauvreté. Le
Gouvernement a mobilisé régulièrement les fonds de contre partie du projet.

Il convient de constater que le PNIR1 s'est avéré un puissant moteur de développement. Il a (i)
amélioré les compétences des bénéficiaires ; (ii) fait de l'appropriation des méthodes de travail une
des conditions de son intervention ; (iii) mis en pratique le transfert de pouvoir ; (iv) introduit la
participation des populations dans l'exercice du pouvoir ; et (v) amélioré de manière significative
l'accès des bénéficiaires aux services. Les réussites les plus marquantes du PNIR1 sont : (i) le
transfert au bénéfice des CR des ressources et du pouvoir de décision sur leur propre
développement ; (ii) le test, avec les résultats positifs, de gestion du patrimoine collectif basé sur
les structures décentralisées.

Étant donné que le PNIR1 est la première phase d'une série de projets de développement
décentralisé, les leçons tirées de ses activités et des ses résultats auront pour objectif de contribuer
à la définition des approches et des objectifs des futurs projets. Les leçons peuvent être
regroupées en 9 sections :

1.      La nouvelle place des CR dans le développement et dans la lutte contre la pauvreté
Le PNIR1 a concrétisé le poids politique donné par le Gouvernement aux CR et aux habitants des
communautés rurales en faisant d'eux les initiateurs et planificateurs de leur propre
développement. Les investissements et les formations du PNIR1 ont également élargi le choix des
activités et des approches disponibles aux CR. Cependant, le processus d'émancipation des CR,
même celles encadrées par le PNIR1 depuis 3 ou 4 ans n'est pas encore terminé. Les projets qui
continueront d'appuyer les CR doivent encore renforcer les capacités des CR de programmation
de développement. Pour se développer, les CR doivent avoir également accès aux moyens
matériels provenant non seulement des ressources traditionnelles comme celles du gouvernement,
des fonds propres ; de la coopération décentralisée ou de la cotisation des populations mais
également, dans le futur, des crédits bancaires. Malgré le progrès obtenu et malgré les bonnes
perspectives de continuation d'investir dans les microréalisations, le développement des CR dans
un horizon de 10 à 15 ans posera encore de nombreux défis, car il est probable que la capacité des
CR d'absorber les nouveaux investissements connaîtra un ralentissement.

2.      Les appuis futurs aux CR

Le PNIR1 a joué pleinement son rôle d'outil de développement décentralisé des CR, mais il lui
manquait un relais déconcentré en forme d'une institution nationale pérenne. Probablement, ce
relais pourra être assuré par les ARD et par les directions des ministères techniques. La nature
holistique de l'appui aux CR exige une coordination des efforts du Gouvernement et des bailleurs
de fonds. Les CR et leurs représentants doivent être associés à l'organisation des structures de
gestion décentralisée et à la préparation de la réglementation. Les CR doivent être soutenus dans
leur développement, par le gouvernement et les bailleurs de fonds. Pour être pleinement
opérationnelles, les CR doivent mettre sur pieds des mécanismes de coordination entre
communautés et développer davantage le partenariat avec les centres urbains. Les CR doivent être
consultées pendant la préparation des plans nationaux de développement qui mettent en jeux leurs



                                                  - 31 -

intérêts.

3.      Phases successives du programme
Le PNIR1 donnera probablement lieu à toute la génération de projets de développement
participatif et de la lutte contre la pauvreté. Grâce à l'expérience du PNIR1 les projets et les
programmes qui lui succèderont pourront bâtir ses programmes sur les principes qui se sont
avérés viables pendant la première phase.

4.      La volonté politique de réaliser la décentralisation
Le schéma institutionnel du PNIR1 a traduit la volonté politique et montré son efficacité dans la
gestion du projet.

5.      Le rôle des autorités traditionnelles et religieuses
La décentralisation du pouvoir surtout dans le milieu rural soulève également la question de la
présence des autorités traditionnelles et religieuses qui doivent être associées aux efforts de
développement.

6.      Les groupes vulnérables et la lutte contre la pauvreté
Les projets de développement décentralisé doivent être axés davantage sur l'aide aux groupes
vulnérables et sur l'accroissement de la participation des femmes dans les organes de prise de
décision.

7.      L'importance des symboles
Chaque société, si elle veut mobiliser les populations pour la réalisation d'un objectif commun,
imagine des symboles ou des bannières sous lesquels les protagonistes se regroupent. Le logo du
PNIR1 et les valeurs qu'il symbolise peut être un des éléments facilitant le passage à une nouvelle
phase du programme PNIR.

8.      La réduction de coûts
La réduction de coûts des projets et des microréalisations doit accompagner chaque effort de
développement. Dans les projets de développement participatif elle peut être obtenue par
l'implication des bénéficiaires dans le financement et par le choix des incitatifs.

9.      Les risques.
Aux risques spécifiques déjà identifiés pendant la préparation de la stratégie de réduction de la
pauvreté il faut ajouter aussi les aléas dus à la complexité de la gestion du processus de
développement décentralisé et au faible niveau de scolarisation des bénéficiaires.




                                                  - 32 -

- 33 -

