Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19963 - SE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.5 MILLION
(US$ 28.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
DECEMBER 20, 1999
AFTT2/AFTR3
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1999)
Currency Unit = FCFA
LC = US$0.0016
US$ = CFA Franc 614
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD       Agence Francaise de Developpement
AGETIP  Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'lnteret Public (Autonomous Public Works Agency)
AIDS      Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
AIP       Annual Investment Program
APCR      Association des Preisidents des Communauits Rurales (Association of Chief Executives of Rural
Communities)
APL       Adaptable Program Lending
CAP       Community Action Program
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CERP      Centre d'Expansion Rurale Polyvalent (Rural Development Extension Center)
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CNDCL   Conseil National de Developpement des Collectivites Locales (National Council for the Development of
Local Communities)
CR        Communaute Rurale (rural community)
CRP       Community Roads Program
DALY      Disability-adjusted Life Year
DCL       Direction des collectivites locales (Department of Local Communities)
DDI       Direction de la Dette et de l 'Investissement (Department of Debt and Investment)
DGR       Direction du Genie Rural (Department of Rural Engineering)
DO        Development Objective
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EU        European Union
FECL      Fonds dEquipement des Collectivites Locales (Local Cormmunities' Infrastructure and Equipment Fund)
FDD       Fonds de Dotation de la Decentralisation (Fund for Decentralized Development)
GIE       Groupement d'Interdt Economique (Economic Interest Group)
GOS       Government of Senegal
GPN       General Procurement Notice
GTZ       Gesellschaftfur Technische Zusammenarbeit (Agency for Technical Cooperation)
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Mahmood .A. Ayub
Sector Managers: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard/Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leaders: Susanne Holste/Suzanne Piriou-Sall



HIV             Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IAPSO/UNIPAC   UN Agencies
ICB             Intemational Competitive Bidding
IF              Innovation Fund
IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMC             Infrastructure Maintenance Comrmittee
IP              Implementation Progress
KfW             Kreditanstaltffur Wiederaujbau (Bank for Reconstruction)
LACI            Loan Administration Change Inititative
LCS             Least Cost Selection
LDP             Local Development Plan
LIF             Local Investment Fund
MIP             Municipal Investment Plan
MOA             Ministry of Agriculture
MOF             Ministry of Finance
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NDRDP           National Decentralized Rural Development Program
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NPV             Net Present Value
NRIP            National Rural Infrastructure Program
PAC             Projet d'Appui aux Governements (Urban Development and Decentralization Program)
PIM             Project Implementation Manual
PLDRD           Policy Letter of Decentralized Rural Development
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PMR             Project Management Report
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PSAOP           Programme des Services Agricoles et d'Appui aux Organisations de Producteurs (Agricultural
Services and Producer Organizations Project)
PSC             Project Steering Committee
QCBS            Quality and Cost Based Selection
RC              Regional Coordinator
RCU             Regional Coordinating Unit
RIDP            Regional Integrated Development Plans
RIF             Rural Investment Fund
RTTP            Rural Travel and Transport Program
SSS             Single Source Selection
STD             Sexually Transmitted Disease
TSP2            Second Transport Sector Project
UNCDF           United Nations Capital Development Fund
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
VCSP            Village Communities Support Program






Senegal
National Rural Infrastructure Project
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
A. Program  Purpose and Project Development Objective ................................................................1
1.   Program  purpose and program phasing ................................................................I
2.   Project development objective .........             ......................................................2
B: Strategic Context ................................................................3
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project ..........................................3
2.   Main sector issues and Government strategy ................................................................4
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices ................................................................5
4.   Program  description and performance triggers for subsequent loans ..............................................................6
C. Project Description Summary ................................................................9
1.   Project components ...............................................................9
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project ...............................................................   11
3.   Benefits and target population ............................................................... 13
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................... 14
D. Project Rationale ............................................................... .                                          16
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .16
2.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design .17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership.                                                                         I 
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .19
E. Summary Project Analysis ......................                                                                              19
1.   Economic.19
2.   Financial.20
3. Technical.21
4. Institutional.21
5.   Social.23
6. Environmental assessment .23
7. Participatory approach.                                                                                                   24
F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................                                                                         24
1. Sustainability .......................... 24
2. Critical Risks .......................... 25
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ..........................                                                                 25
G. Main Credit Conditions ........................... 26
1. Effectiveness Conditions .......................... 26
2.   Other .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                             ..26
H. Readiness for Implementation ...........................                                                                     27
1. Compliance with the Bank Policies ...........................                                                                27



Annexes
Annex 1   Project Design Summary ...................................                                                                        28
Annex 2   Detailed Project Description ...................................                                                                  32
Annex 3   Estimated Project Costs ...................................                                                                       43
Annex 4   Economic and Financial Analysis ...................................                                                               44
Annex 5   Financial Summary ...................................                      ..                                                     58
Annex 6    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ...................................                                                    59
Annex 7   Project Processing Budget and Schedule ...................................                                                        69
Annex 8   Financial Management ...................................                                                                          10
Annex 9   Organizational Chart ...................................                                                                          73
Annex 10  Documents in Project File ...................................                                                                     74
Annex 11  Statement of Loans and Credits ...................................                                                                75
Annex 12  Country at a Glance ...................................                                                                           76
Annex 13    Letter of Decentralized Rural Development Policy from  the Government of Senegal ......... ........ 78
Map: IBRD 30539



Senegal
National Rural Infrastructure Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Country Department 14
Date: December 20, 1999                                Team Leaders: Susanne Hoiste/Suzanne Piriou-Sall
Country Director: Mahmood Ayub                         Sector Managers: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard/Jean-Paul Chausse
Project ID: P057996                                    Sector: Multi
Lending Instrument: APL                                Theme(s): Rural Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention:                     [x  Yes         [  No
_ m ~~~~iDA                    othersi**       Total   TCommitment    C           osing r- 
US$ m         %        US$m    |US$ m |               Date              Date       |%l
APLL o1 /            28.5    |66%           14.4         42.9            01        |        04        |10.0l
APLC2                49.8        60%        33.2          83.0            05                09                        15.0
Loan!
Credit     _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _             _ _
APL 3                73.4        65%        39.6        113.0             09                12                       20.0
Loan!
Credit                    _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total               151.7        63%        87.2        238.9   |                             __ _ _20.0                             _
Project Financing Data
( I Loan         [xl Credit           [3  Grant           [3Guarantee            [3I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 20.5 million; USSm28.5 equivalent
Proposed terms:          j] To be defined              n  Multicurrency            [x]  Single currency
[  Standard Variable       [xl  Fixed                     [ LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):                     10
Years to maturity:                        40
Commitment fee:                     Standard IDA
Service charge:                           0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:              %
IFAD                                                                         2.6                     4.9                    7.5
Govemment                                                                    4.2                     0.07                   4.3
Beneficiaries                                                                2.5                     0.0                    2.6
Total:                                                                      18.4                    24.4                    42.9
Borrower:
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Oversight: Prime Minister's Office through a Project Steering Committee. Day-to-day coordination: Project Coordinating Unit under the
Ministry of Agriculture. Execution of Components/Activlites: Ministry of Interior and Decentralization (Component 1), Project Coordinating Unit (Component 2 and 3
community roads), Ministry of Agriculture (Component 3-Gtnie Rural)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):l
r    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
Annual          3.2              6.8              8.0             10.5
Cumulative          3.2             10.0             18.0             28.5
Project implementation period: 2000-2005
Expected effectiveness date: August 2000                              Expected closing date: Dec. 30, 2005
Implementing agencies: (1) National Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Agriculture, (2) Direction des Collectivites Locales, Ministry of the Interior
Contact person: (I) Moussa Camara L6, Coordonnateur du PNIR, (2) Mamadou Diouf
Address: (1) (Temporary) Unite de Politique Agricole (UPA) 3 Rue de Thiong, X Assana Paye, Dakar, Rtpublique du Senegai
Tel: (1) 221-823-42-16 (2) +221-821 03 94    Fax: 221-823-75-96                 E-mail: upadeux@senet.net
** Harmonization of local development strategies during Phase I will considerably increase other donors financial participation during Phase 11 and III.






A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing (see Annex 1)
1.1    The 1996 Government reforms, with their primary focus on poverty reduction, strengthened
decentralization as a means to promote socioeconomic development in Senegal and, to that end,
transferred a number of sectoral competencies and resources to local governments. The recent Policy
Letter on Decentralized Rural Development (PLDRD), endorsed by the Government of Senegal (GOS)
and supported by its development partners, confirms and embodies the fundamental options adopted in
1996 and orients them towards the rural areas (see Annex 13). The PLDRD also takes stock of
achievements and constraints in that domain, and recognizes the need for a transition phase of about four
years during which various modalities of decentralized rural development will be piloted under the
leadership of the National Council for the Development of Local Communities (Conseil National de
Developpement des Collectivites Locales - CNDCL). The CNDCL will have the responsibility for
progressively unifying the different approaches and will develop a National Decentralized Rural
Development Program (NDRDP). The National Rural Infrastructure Program (NRIP) is expected to fully
integrate into the upcoming NDRDP, alongside with other donor-financed operations. With a time
horizon of 15 years, the NDRDP intends to reach all rural communities (Communautes Rurales - CRs) in
the country and implement a harmonized, multi-donor funded, rural decentralization framework.
1.2    The NRIP's central objective is to contribute to revitalize the rural economy, reducing rural
poverty and improving the living conditions of rural populations in Senegal, through the promotion of
decentralized rural development and the strengthening of local governance. The program will reinforce
the capacity of rural local governments' to sustainably deliver a number of services selected by and for
their rural populations and their rural communities. The long-term vision is one of participatory and
representative local governments planning and managing their own development programs and
mobilizing the necessary resources through increased local revenues and Government fiscal transfers. To
achieve these goals, the program will: (i) support the ongoing administrative and fiscal decentralization
reform process; (ii) strengthen the capacity of local governments to prioritize, plan, implement, and
maintain community-based infrastructure; and (iii) provide decentralized funding for demand-driven and
community-managed rural infrastructure and services.
1.3    The NRIP will use the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) instrument to support its long-term
goals through a three-phase program stretching over a twelve-year period (FYO1-FY12). The use of an
APL demonstrates IDA's long-term commitment to support fundamental institutional reforms while
allowing flexibility for adjustments in eachphase in light of lessons learned, changing country context,
and evolving demand and capacity of local governments.
1.4    During the initial four-year phase, the program will (i) test and establish efficient mechanisms for
sustainable decentralized basic infrastructure planning and implementation; (ii) strengthen the capacity of
the CRs to operate and maintain the investments undertaken; and (iii) reinforce the national institutions
responsible for defining and supporting Government decentralization strategies and policies. Based on
this experience, the program will expand during the second phase to cover the majority of CRs and
provide funding for a larger variety of collective productive investments and natural resources
management. The final phase will consolidate the achievements made under the previous two phases,
with emphasis on long-term sustainability and efficiency of decentralized rural development. During the
three phases, the program will continuously monitor and adjust approaches and strategies.
' There are 320 Communautes Rurales in Senegal, each including a number of villages.



2
1.5    The first phase will also include a program  to improve intra-CR community roads and to test
approaches and implement mechanisms which are outlined in the Government's Framework for the
National Rural Transport Strategy. This component will be closely coordinated with the Second
Transport Sector Project, thus ensuring coherence of network investments and policy development. Once
the GOS has fully defined its national policy on rural transport (expected for 2001), its implementation
will be supported under a free-standing National Rural Transport Project (TSP2). The second and third
phase of the NRIP will, therefore, not include a community roads component.
1.6    The list of triggers to be monitored and which will guide the transition from the first phase to the
second phase of the program was agreed with GOS during appraisal. Triggers for transition to the third
phase were also tentatively identified at that time. These triggers need to be attained prior to the approval
and funding of each phase; they correspond to the main performance indicators of the program and
include institutional indicators to measure progress in the reform agenda as well as physical
implementation indicators (investments realized and beneficiaries reached).
2. Project development objective (see Annex 1)
2.1     This project, which fits squarely into the government's effort to combat poverty, represents
Phase I of the National Rural Infrastructure Program. Its development objectives are to: (i) improve local
governance and local capacity; (ii) establish participatory and decentralized mechanisms for selecting,
funding and implementing rural community
investment  programs;  (iii) strengthen  the   The Communautis Rurales (CRs) in Senegal
national institutions supporting decentralization;   The CRs that were created in 1972 as rural local governments
and (iv) implement basic infrastructure itn a   had their powers severely restricted by local administration.
selected number of rural communities. Phase 1   They evolved through successive reformns in 1990 and 1996 that
will focus on 90 CRs out of a total of 320    granted them increased autonomy and additional responsibilities
while  also  supporting  key  reforms at the   in the area of land tenure, local development and the provision
of basic socio-economic services.
national level. These 90 CRs will receive
support for strengthening their planning and    Today there are 320 CRs in Senegal that cover the country's
territory. A CR averages 15,000 people and comprises a number
management capacity and for improving their   of villages linked by socioeconomic and cultural ties. An elected
responsiveness to rural populations. Support   Rural Council of about 30 Rural Councilors, headed by an
to key reforms will include (i) reinforcing    elected Chief Executive, governs the affairs of the CR.
the process   of   fiscal   decentralization;   The efficiency of the CR, however, is seriously hampered by the
(ii) streamlining the operational approach to   lack of resources. An average annual budget amounts to about 6
rural decentralization and local development,   million Fcfa (about US$10.000), of which 25% is absorbed by
in particular with  regards to  participatory   operational and recurrent costs. Financing sources include a
variety of local taxes and fees, of which the Rural Head Tax is
procedures and capacity building activities;   the most important, and GOS transfers (Fonds d'Equipement
and (iii) strengthening the rural population's   des Collectivites Locales et Fonds de Dotation de la
capacity to organize and present its interests at   Decentralisation). In 1996, GOS transfers to CRs averaged 25%
all levels. During  Phase  1, the menu  of   of their total revenues.
community-based investments eligible for
financing will be limited to microprojects of basic public infrastructure (health and maternity posts,
schools, water supply and sanitation, culverts, etc.). It is expected that out of the 90CRs benefiting from
capacity building activities, 60 CRs will receive funding for infrastructure investments. It is expected that
all remaining CRs would be gradually covered during Phase 2 by the NRIP or other donor-funded
operations, all part of the NDRDP.



3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R98 - 2 (17269)                   Date of latest CAS discussion: January 29, 1998
1.1    The 1994 Poverty Assessment Study highlights the severity of poverty in Senegal, with more
than a third of the total population living under the poverty line. Moreover, poverty remains an essentially
rural phenomenon with 80% of the poor households living in rural areas. High underemployment is
prevalent in rural areas, fueling the rural out-migration of the younger generations.
Regional Distribution of Poverty
Poverty in Senegal is unequally shared among the regions. Kolda, Kaolack, Fatick, and Ziguinchor are the poorest regions
when measured by the number of households living below the poverty threshold. The human poverty indicators that combine
indicators of health, education and access to basic services identify Kolda, Tambacounda and Diourbel as the three most
deprived regions. Higher revenues in regions such as St Louis and Diourbel are partly explained by remittances from migrant
workers. Those remittances, however, do not seem to impact social indicators.
Dakar  Ziguin-  Diour-  St      Tamba-  Kaolack  Thies  Louga   Fatick  Kolda  Senegal
chor    bel     Louis  counda
% of         12%    54%      23%     15%     44%       48%     26%    46%      47%    57%
regional
population
(household)
below
poverty line
Indicator of  32.19   50.91    62.65   53.51    65.70    48.58   53.98   59.29   54.98   68.68   50.56
Human
Poverty
(1995)
Source: UNDP Human Development Report - 1998.
1.2    The over-arching objective of IDA's CAS for Senegal is to reduce the incidence of poverty by
creating employment and income opportunities and by improving the access of the population to basic
services and infrastructure. This goal would be achieved by a two-pronged strategy: (i) supporting
policies and programs that aim at more rapid and sustained economic growth; and (ii) supporting the
development of basic social and economic infrastructure while improving the social sustainability and
efficiency of development programs. IDA's assistance has a strong rural focus due to the prevalence of
poverty in rural areas and to the latter's development potential. This assistance is congruent with the
national development strategy (Ninth Economic and Social Development Plan) whose fundamental
objective is to reduce poverty (and unemployment) through combined measures fostering growth and
human development. Rural development is therefore a priority both in the CAS and the government's
strategy.
1.3    The NRIP has been designed to be a key instrument for the implementation of the CAS. It would
address some of the critical constraints to sustained economic and social development in rural areas by
improving the access of the rural population to basic infrastructure and social services. By linking rural



4
areas to markets, it would contribute to creating income and employment opportunities for rural youth,
women and other traditionally disadvantaged groups. Finally, by supporting the efficient implementation
of government decentralization policies and by strengthening the capacity and representativity of rural
local governments, it would be a powerful instrument for improving the economic and social efficiency
of development programs in rural areas, and fostering good governance.
2. Main sector issues and government strategy
2.1    Over the past five years, the GOS has successfully implemented far-reaching macroeconomic and
sector policy reforms, mostly focused on liberalizing the agricultural/rural economy and disengaging the
State from productive activities. The GOS has also been very active in implementing administrative and
political decentralization. However, overall rural development performance has been rather poor. In the
agricultural sector, with the exception of non-traditional export crops, production of few crops has
responded positively to the reforms. Lagging sector response and stagnant productivity in agriculture are
the result of the persistence of major structural constraints. Low labor productivity originates in (i) poor
access to markets due to a deficient road network and lack of transport services; (ii) limited availability of
basic agricultural services and rural credit; (iii) limited access to social services which negatively impacts
health and education; and (iv) serious degradation of the natural resource base.
2.2    A countrywide consultative process, undertaken as part of the CAS preparation, revealed that the
priority needs of the rural population correspond to these structural constraints and are primarily:
improved access roads, drinking water, health services, and education. The population also expressed a
strong desire to participate in the decision-making for local development and a commitment to assume an
increased share in the funding of local development plans.
2.3    Government's overall development strategy -- articulated in the Ninth Economic and Social
Development Plan adopted by the National Assembly in February 1997 following extensive consultations
with various segments of the civil society -- has as an over-arching objective to reduce the incidence of
poverty and create gainful employment opportunities for youth through atarget growth rate of 9 percent
per annum during 1998-2001. The Plan also has a strong focus on promoting social and economic
development in rural areas. Government, with the participation of the civil society, has recently drafted
the PLDRD, which sets out its long-term strategy for promoting sustainable and equitable economic
growth in the rural sector, as a means to effective rural poverty reduction. The key features of this
strategy are to:
(a) ensure an effective implementation of government's decentralization policies through
(i) improving the decentralized fiscal system and ensuring an increased and predictable flow
of resources for investments in community-based social and economic infrastructure and
services and (ii) support to key institutions;
(b) strengthen the capacity of local governments to assume full responsibility for the nine
sectors devolved from the central to the local levell, provide them with the means to exercise
these responsibilities, and enable them to better represent and respond to the priority needs
of the rural population;
(c) strengthen partnerships between the different actors involved in local development
(i.e., deconcentrated public services, local government institutions, community-based and
professional organizations, and non-governmental and private sector institutions), clarify the



5
roles of and promote synergies between the various actors at the local level, and streamline
and improve the efficiency of the decentralization process; and
(d) coordinate the assistance provided by bilateral and multilateral institutions by assigning a
monitoring and evaluation function to the CNDCL with a view towards harmonizing
approaches to rural development.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices
3.1    The first phase of NRIP will directly address the following sector issues: (i) low  labor
productivity, partly due to limited access to socioeconomic infrastructure and services; (ii) limited access
to product and factor markets, due to a deficient rural roads system; and (iii) an excessively centralized
rural development process and very low institutional and human capacity at the local level. These
concerns correspond to priorities highlighted during the CAS consultation process. NRIP would address
those issues by establishing a demand-driven Local Investment Fund (LIF) which would help finance
basic community-based public infrastructure. In addition, an Innovation Fund (IF) would pilot productive
collective investments that would be streamlined during the second and third phases of NRIP, thus
promoting employment and income generation. The Project would have strong linkages and synergies
with other Bank-financed operations, for example the recently approved Agricultural Services and
Producer Organizations Project (PSAOP, Report No. 18554-SE) and the Second Transport Sector Project
(PST2, Report No. 19023-SE) which address related problems.
3.2    Approaches to rural development have focused during the last decades, with rather limited
success, on increasing agricultural production and access to basic services in an environment
characterized by inadequate macroeconomic and sector policies, limited access to market, and an
extremely limited participation of rural populations in the planning and management of their own
development.
3.3    The overall macro and sectoral economic policy environment has now been greatly enhanced.
Thus, NRIP's proposed strategy focuses on addressing some of the key remaining structural constraints
to growth, i.e., low human capital, limited access to product and factor markets, and a declining natural
resource base. In addressing these constraints, NRIP's approach departs from the centrally planned and
implemented rural development approaches of the past. It is based upon the principles of effective
decentralized rural development, which institutionalizes participatory approaches that are the operational
core of planning and implementation processes. NRIP's strategy focuses on the CRs as the main local
agent for planning and implementing rural development. At present, CRs are inadequately resourced and
staffed, and are not always operating in a transparent, responsive and participatory manner. Technical
assistance is scarce and inadapted (deconcentrated technical services), or beyond the CRs' means (private
sector). Through the funding of the LIF, CRs will be enabled to contract and pay for the needed technical
assistance provided by either the public service or the private sector. Furthernore, the Project will deploy
capacity-building activities and implement participatory processes in order to make the CR evolve
towards a sound local institution capable of managing local affairs. Simultaneously, the NRIP will
support key institutional reforms that will create an adequate policy environment for decentralized and
participatory rural development to blossom. The NRIP will closely follow the restructuring of the
Ministry of Agriculture undertaken under the PSAOP. These reforrns will clarify the roles and functions
of the central governmentlsectoral ministries and theirdeconcentrated services, and their relation with the
private sector in the planning, provision and monitoring of services.



6
3.3    NRIP's strategy is progressive. During Phase 1, only community-based public infrastructure will
be eligible for financing. Upon assessment of their performance, CRs would be able to access a greater
variety of investments, including productive community investments through theInnovation Fund, and
would enjoy greater autonomy. NRIP's strategic choices during Phase 1 should lead to: (i) increased
resources for rural development; (ii) better adequacy of basic rural infrastructure to priority needs of rural
populations; (iii) reduced unit cost of providing and maintaining rural infrastructures, thereby increasing
economic efficiency of development expenditures; and (iv) enhanced governance through greater
transparency and accountability.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans
Phase 1 (the Project) - Initiation phase:
Phase I begins the process of supporting decentralized rural development and reinforcing policy reforns in the
fiscal, administrative, and political domains that would create an enabling environment for participatory rural
development and good local governance. The Project has four components: a) Support for Decentralized Rural
Development, focusing on (i) strengthening local governments' capacity to plan, implement, operate and maintain
rural infrastructure, (ii) fiscal decentralization for rural areas, and (iii) strengthening national capacity to support and
pilot rural decentralization; b) Establishment of a demand-driven Local Investment Fund (LIF) which channels
resources directly to the rural communities on a matching grant basis to finance community-based public
infrastructure through a Rural Investment Fund (RIF) and to pilot a larger menu of investments through an
Innovation Fund; c) Community roads program focusing on (i) improving the community road network in the 60
CRs supported by the LIF, (ii) piloting community road management and maintenance mechanisms, and
(iii) strengthening the Department of Rural Engineering; and d) Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Mechanism. The Project will provide capacity building to about 30% of the CRs and fund basic rural infrastructure
and community roads improvements in about 20% of them. The CRs are chosen based on poverty criteria.
During Phase 1, the Project will collaborate with other donor and Governuent financed programs to establish an
efficient and harmonized nationwide framework for rural decentralization. The CNDCL will steer this effort
through its monitoring and evaluation unit that will be strengthened by the Project.
The role and functions of deconcentrated technical services and the private sector in providing technical assistance
and services to local govermunents and communities will be examined and rationalized. Greater efficiency and
greater accountability to users will be two guiding principles of the review process. It is expected that the
institutional reform process will have been completed by the end of this phase, thus paving the way for scaled-up
implementation of the following phases.



7
Phase 2 - Expansion phase:
As part of the National Decentralized Rural Development Program (NDRDP), Phase 2 of NRIP financing will
provide about 70% of the CRs with institutional support and funding for local public investments. All CRs will,
however, be reached by the NDRDP. The capacity of each CR to manage and maintain the infrastructure will
determine the level of support received from the program. For all CRs, lessons learned during the first phase will
guide implementation, particularly with respect to participatory planning by local communities and local program
management.
During this phase all participating CRs will benefit from rural infrastructure investments. For those CRs that
successfully established and maintained rural infrastructure in Phase 1, the program will increase the range of
eligible microprojects to include other types of collective infrastructure and services (e.g., productive investments
and natural resource management microprojects). The long-term objective is a higher degree of CRs' capacity and
financial self-sufficiency (the latter through a combination of increased intergovernmental transfers and local
revenue generation). To ensure sustainability, the matching grant level will be gradually reduced, while increasing
the share of local government and beneficiary financing. The LIF will progressively give way to an integrated
budgetary mechanism to transfer resources to CRs, enabling them to sustainably function outside the Project.
Phase 2 will also consolidate horizontal linkages between CRs (inter-communautaire) and vertical linkages with
decentralized (Region) and deconcentrated entities.
Phase 2 will not include a community roads component. This component will be integrated in the forthcoming
National Rural Transport Program (FY02).
Phase 3 - Consolidation phase:
Phase 3 will consolidate the institutional and capacity-building gains made during the first two phases to make local
governments an effective tool for sustainable local development planning and management. It is anticipated that
improved local governance, improved accountability of service providers to users, and increased basic public
investments will encourage a more positive climate for tax generation and economic activities, thus contributing to
an increased flow of income and employment-generating investments by the private sector.
By the end of Phase 3, local governments will have developed an organizational framework that will enable them to
participate more effectively in regional and national policy planning. The process of integrating local, regional and
national development planning will contribute to more coherent national sectoral policies. Substantial effort will be
devoted to promote "good practices," information exchange and lessons learned for decentralized rural
development, within Senegal and with other countries within and outside Africa.
By the end of this phase, it is expected that (i) transfer mechanisms channeling development funds from national to
local governments will be fully operational; and (ii) local governments will have acquired broader and more
efficient revenue-generation capabilities. As a result, matching grant funding will decrease in line with local
capacity and willingness to pay, and donor funding in support of decentralization would be channeled through
integrated budgetary mechanisms.
Local govermments will have access to adequate and efficient technical assistance provided either by the private
sector or by public services. Deconcentrated services will focus their intervention on monitoring, evaluating, and
controlling the quality of the services provided. They will ensure proper coordination with other levels of planning
and with national policies. On demand, they will assist local governments in an advisory capacity.



8
Performance triggers for subsequent loans
Phase 1: Achievement Indicators
Support for Decentralized Rural Development
+  Legislation relative to CRs' decentralized taxation and financial management, and relative to the
reform of fiscal transfers to CR have been reviewed and adopted by the Borrower;
* Regulatory texts, prepared by the CNDCL, which harmonize implementation modalities of
decentralized rural development policies and programs, have been reviewed and adopted by the
Borrower;
* The end of project beneficiary participatory evaluation has revealed that populations of target rural
communes, including the marginalized and vulnerable groups, are satisfied with their participation
level in the decentralized rural development processes established under the first phase of NRIP, and
find that rural infrastructures funded under NRIP respond to their basic needs;
* The monitoring and evaluation system established under NRIP is operational;
* At least 80% of participating CRs have received at least 80% of the planned training;
*  At least 80% of targeted CRs have designed a detailed local development plan in a participatory
manner; and
+ At least 70% of targeted CRs have an unqualified financial audit.
Local Investment Fund
* At least 60% of approved microprojects (in Year 1, 2, and 3) have been successfully completed; and
e At least 70% of targeted CRs have successfully completed at least two infrastructure projects.
Community Roads Program
* 60% of the total kilometers of the community roads rehabilitated under NRIP receive regular
maintenance consistent with the adopted maintenance strategy.
Phase 2: Achievement Indicators
Support for Decentralized Rural Development
* Legislation and regulatory texts adopted at end of Phase I have been adequately implemented;
* The end of phase beneficiary participatory evaluation has revealed that populations of target rural
communities, including the marginalized and vulnerable groups, are satisfied with their participation
level in the decentralized rural development processes established under NRIP, and confirrn that rural
infrastructures funded under NRIP respond to their basic needs; and
* At least 80% of targeted CRs have received at least 80% of the planned training.
Local Investment Fund
*  Contribution to the financing of rural infrastructure of the CRs benefiting from LIF funding in
Phase 1, including beneficiary contributions, has increased by 50 % from its level during the previous
phase;
* LIF's disbursements are at least at 70% of the planned level;
+ At least 70% of approved microprojects have been successfully completed and are being maintained;
and
+ Average costs of rural infrastructure have been reduced in real terms by 30 %;



9
Phase 3: Achievement Indicators
Support for Decentralized Rural Development
*  Legislation and regulatory texts adopted at the end of Phase 1, and amendments thereof, have been
adequately implemented;
* Intergovernmental transfers through regular budgetary processes have been established and are
operating in a satisfactory manner regarding the availability and accessibility of funds;
*  The end of program beneficiary participatory evaluation has revealed that populations of target rural
communes, including the marginalized and vulnerable groups, are satisfied with their participation
level in the decentralized rural development processes established under NRIP, and confirm that rural
infrastructures funded under NRIP respond to their basic needs; and
*  90% of participating CRs have received at least 90% of the planned training.
Local Investment Fund
+ LIF's disbursements are at least at 80% of the planned level;
* Average contribution to the financing of rural infrastructure of all CRs is at least 50% of the cost of
rural infrastructure; and
* Average costs of rural infrastructure have been reduced in real terms by 30%.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
1.1 The Project will have four components: (i) Support for Decentralized Rural Development; (ii) Local
Investment Fund; (iii) Community Roads Program; and (iv) Project Coordination, Monitoring and
Evaluation.
+  Support for Decentralized Rural Development
This component will support and strengthen the institutional, financial and human resource capacity
of local government in the rural areas. It includes three clusters of activities. The first cluster will
support the Government's efforts for fiscal and financial reforms with in view to improve CRs'
revenue generation and management. The second cluster will strengthen local governments' ability to
manage the local development process and improve their transparency and responsiveness to the
demands of the rural population. CRs will be assisted by field operators in this endeavor. The third
cluster will focus on national level institutions: (i) strengthening the monitoring and evaluation and
analytic capacity of the CNDCL, with a view to guide rural decentralization policy and to harmonize
approaches; (ii) supporting the Department of Local Communities to reinforce its capacity as
implementation agency of decentralization processes; and, (iii) assisting the Association of Chief
Executives of Rural Communities (Association des presidents des communautes rurales - APCR)
improve its functioning and the quality of services provided to its members.



10
* Local Investment Fund (LIF)
This component will be the mechanism for transferring financial resources to local governments to
fund priority public infrastructure microprojects (health and maternity posts, schools, water supply
and sanitation, culverts, etc.) identified in their Local Development Plans (LDPs) and Annual
Investment Program (AlPs). Selected investments will be funded through cost-sharing by the LIF,
local governments' own budget and beneficiary contributions. The yearly allocation of the LIF to the
CRs is calculated based on population and UNDP's human development index (see Annex 4a for
details). The counterpart funding by local governments and the beneficiaries is calculated based on a
cofinancing matrix included in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). It is expected that the
contribution of local governments will gradually increase as their tax base and financial resources
expand.
The LIF will have two financing windows: the Rural Investment Fund (RIF) and the Innovation
Fund (IF). The RIF represents 80% of the LIF and will finance basic public infrastructure while the
FAI (20% of the LIF) will serve as an action/research tool and provide access to a slightly larger
menu of investment options, including collective productive infrastructure. This component was
piloted during the preparation of the Project (see section D.3 for details).
+ Community Roads Program
This component includes three clusters of activities. The first cluster will contribute to improved
basic access in the 60 CRs targeted by the LIF. Using the LIF's planning and management principles,
each CR will receive a yearly budget for road improvements using a service-level approach. It is
expected that communities will opt for basic service in order to cover the largest possible portion of
the community road network. The CRs would cost-share local investment costs through contribution
in cash or kind and would be responsible for the maintenance of their roads. The second cluster will
pilot mechanisms of community road management and maintenance as outlined in the Framework for
the National Rural Transport Strategy. The third cluster would assist the Department of Rural
Engineering of the Ministry of Agriculture to better define its mission and reinforce its capacity to
assume responsibility for environmental aspects of the Project. The component will be implemented
in close cooperation with the Second Transport Sector Project which will, inter alia, provide funding
to link the 60 CRs to the main road network and withi the PSAOP, which will support the
restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture.
* Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
This component will cover (i) project coordination and financial management and (ii) the
establishment and operation of the monitoring and evaluation system of the Project to be used as
management tool.



11
Component                  Sector     Indicative Costs   % of    Bank-    % of Bank-
(US$m)       Total   financina    financing
(USsm)
1) Support for Decentralized Rural                     10.7         25        7.3          68
Development
(a) Support the reforms of the rural
fiscal and financial management system  -policy
(b) Strengthen the capacity of local  -institution
govemments                          building
(c) Support national-level institutions    -capacity
(DCL, CNDCL, APCR)                  building
2) Local Investment Fund (LIF)                         13.3         31        8.7          65
(a) Rural Investnent Fund: Financing
of basic public infrastructure in about   -physical
60 CRs on a matching grant basis   -matching
(b) Innovation Fund: finance, on a  grants
limited scale, other types of micro-
projects; action/research
3) Community Roads Program                             11.6         27        7.3          63
(a) Improvement of community roads
in the 60 CRs of the LIF
(b) Piloting of community road
management and maintenance          -physical
mechanisms                          -policy
(c) Institutional support of the    -institution
Department of Rural Engineering     building
4) Project Coordination, Monitoring   -project          6.0         14        3.9          65
and Evaluation                      coordination
(a) Project Coordination
(b) Monitoring and Evaluation
5) PPF Advance                      -other              1.3          3         1.3         100
Total Project Costs     42.9         100       28.5         66
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project
2.1    The proposed project is consistent with the GOS' focus on rural poverty reduction and the main
goals of the Ninth National Economic and Social Development Plan. NRIP is seen by the Government as
a key instrument for implementing its decentralization framework and as a key instrument for
harmonizing different donor approaches. Furthermore, the Project will support a number of strategic
reforms that can bring about long-term change and sustainability, in particular, in the area of fiscal
decentralization and local governance.
2.2    The current legal/regulatory framnework is generally good and provides a sufficient basis for
Phase 1 of the program. This framework, however, has had difficulties in becoming truly operational due
to insufficient resources and capacity and participation at the local level. Phase 1 of the NRIP will
supplement the local governments' resources through the LIF, while inducing the necessary fiscal
decentralization reforms. It will also develop and institutionalize a national strategy for the strengthening



12
of local institutions. The expansion of the program to Phases 2 and 3 will depend on the implementation
of the above reforms and strategies. At the end of the program, it is expected that donor financing of local
governments will be integrated to regular and efficient budgetaly processes.
With regard to decentralization, the Project will specifically:
* Improve Local Governance
2.3    Fully representative and accountable local governments are essential to the success of the
program. NRIP will seek to broaden the local decision-making and priority-setting process for local
development through a community forum (Comite de concertation) at the level of the CR. This forum
will include, in addition to the elected rural council members, representatives from the various social,
ethnic and economic segments of the community. This committee will promote a better information flow
in matters concerning local govemance and development and will encourage full participation in the
decision-making process of the NRIP, thus ensuring that no one is disenfranchised. The establishment of
the community forum will be an initial step in each targeted CR. NRIP will also generalize participatory
planning for local investments to enhance efficiency, equity and transparency.
* Improve fiscal decentralization andfinancial management
2.4    One of the key constraints to local development and self-reliance is the lack of financial
resources. The existing institutional mechanisms for intergovernmental fiscal transfers, tax collection and
revenue generation are dysfunctional and urban biased. In collaboration with the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and other donors, the Project will
seek to reform the system of intergovernmental transfers, broaden the local fiscal base and improve the
system of local tax collection. This will improve the flow and predictability of resource transfers, increase
local revenue levels and attract the flow of complementary private sector resources into the rural areas.
Adoption of the reforms by GOS will be a trigger for moving to the second phase.
*  Strengthen and operationalize the national legalframeworkfor decentralization
2.5    Law 96/07 providing the framework for decentralization was promulgated after parliamentary
endorsement in 1996 and provides a sound basis for the program. The Project will support
complementary activities undertaken by the Ministry of Modernization and the Delegate Ministry of
Decentralization. In addition, NRIP will provide assistance to the CNDCL to build its monitoring and
evaluation capacity that will enable GOS to critically review the decentralization process. NRIP will also
help the Department of Local Communities to define and organize training, technical assistance, and local
staffing for CRs.
With regard to rural access, the Project will specifically:
* Improve the community road network
2.6    The framework for the National Rural Transport Strategy proposes (i) clear assignments of
institutional and financial responsibilities between central government, the regions and the CRs and
(ii) investments in road improvements based on a service-level approach that will enhance the level of
service in accordance with traffic volume. The Project will improve community roads and provide an
opportunity to test the mechanisms put forward in the framework. NRIP will also provide training to local



13
consultants and contractors so that they may provide appropriate assistance to CRs with regard to
technical options and implementation.
3. Benefits and target population
Primary Beneficiaries: The Rural Population
3.1    By Year 8 of the program, the NDRDP will have reached all 320 CRs. The NRIP itself will
provide assistance to about 70% of all Senegal's CRs and will therefore reach the majority of the rural
population. The Project will have a positive impact on the living conditions, productivity and incomes of
about 1.3 million people, most of whom live below the poverty line.
Targeted Institutions
(a) Rural Communities (CR): During Phase 1, the Project will target 90 CRs, of whom 60 CRs
will receive matching grant funds for microprojects (Local Investment Fund) and subprojects
(Community Roads Program). All 90 communities will benefit from the Project's broader
capacity-building initiatives in support of local government and decentralization. Special
attention will be given to assistCRs in the Casamance region to be part of the Project as soon
as the sociopolitical situation allows for it.
(b) Government Services: The Project will   Responsibilities of the CR
support capacity-building of government   Since 1996, responsibilities have been transferred
services at the Ministry of Economy,  to CRs in 9 sectors:
Finance and  Plan, the  Ministry  of
Interior  and   Decentralization,  the   1. Domain
Department of Rural Engineering, and   2. Environment and Natural Resource Management
Departh int of Feede E    road  ath    3. Health, Population, and Social Action
the Division Of Feeder Roads at the   4. Youth and Sports
Ministry of Public Works. Support will  5. Culture
target in particular those government   6. Education
services involved in the implementation   7. Development Programming
of  the  National  Action  Plan  on   8. Spatial Planning for Infrastructure
Decentralization  to  strengthen  their  9. Housing
ability to organize and respond to rural   The responsibility for community roads was already
communities' demands.                  transferred in 1972.
Benefits and Beneficiaries
3.2    The Project will target rural populations from the poorest regions and with the lowest availability
of basic infrastructure. The selection of the CRs is based on available poverty data and the UNDP Human
Development Index (see Annex 4a for details). It is expected that about 900,000 rural inhabitants will
directly benefit from investments under the Project's LIF and Community Roads Program. The Project's
participatory process for identification of needs, priority setting, decision making and management will
ensure that the infrastructures to be funded correspond to the highest priorities of the community, and
would benefit the majority of its population. This process includes a participatory diagnosis and the
creation of a Community Forum (Comite de Concertation). The Community Forum, a consultative body
to be established by the CR as part of its eligibility criteria for NRIP funding, will review, prior to their
adoption by the CR, the local development plans and the annual investment plans. Traditionally
marginalized and vulnerable groups, civil society, and professional associations will be represented in the
forum. This will provide for the active participation of these groups, thus ensuring that their concerns are



14
taken into account in the prioritization process. One of the triggers for the second phase relates to the
effective participation of these groups.
3.3    The resulting community infrastructure, combined with improvements in the community road
network and linkages to the main road network, will revitalize the local economy, and provide enhanced
opportunities for income and employment generation, especially for local artisans, small-scale
entrepreneurs, and laborers who will be contracted for infrastructure construction and rehabilitation.
Gender Impact
3.4    Women will be encouraged to fully participate in and benefit from the Project. This should have a
positive impact on their income through easier access to markets, to improved health services and to
education. The improved infrastructure and good governance will promote the participation of women
and youth at village and community level meetings. The representation of women and youth groups in the
Community Forum will enable them to voice their views and demands on the priority investments to be
funded under LIF and to participate in the management and maintenance of the resulting infrastructures.
A study on Gender and Transport was carried out during project preparation. Certain recommendations
were incorporated into the Framework for the National Rural Transport Strategy and will be implemented
by the Project.
3.5    Proposed actions to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS (see next paragraph) are expected to ease
the burden on women who carry a disproportionate share of the negative impact of the epidemic.
HIEVIAIDS
3.6   HIV/AIDS prevalence in Senegal is low, especially in rural areas, but it is rising and many of the
risk factors are present that have resulted in high prevalence rates in other countries including sexually
transmitted disease, mobility, urban/rural migration, etc. The rates of HIV prevalence have increased
significantly in rural sex workers, pointing to the fact that the epidemic will spread in these areas.
Awareness and knowledge of how WIV is transmitted and prevented is generally low in rural areas. The
impact of the epidemic is virtually unknown at the community level.
3.7    The Project proposes the following actions and will implement them in close cooperation with the
National AIDS Control Program and already active NGOs: (i) help local governments understand the
impact of the WV/AIDS epidemic on the personal, household, and community levels as well as in the
relevant sectors such as agriculture, (ii) through field operators, help communities assess the potential
impact and develop plans for prevention and coping mechanisms, (iii) strengthen the local health facilities
to diagnose and treat sexually transmitted diseases (STD) and opportunistic infections of HIV and train
health care workers and community workers in HIV/AIDS care; and (iv) include small equipment and
pedagogical support in the package of health and education microprojects.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
4.1    The Project implementation arrangements will be based on the following principles: (i) definition,
choice, management, and monitoring of public infrastructure by local communities; (ii) execution of
public works by local contractors, local artisans, and communities; (iii) flexibility and simplicity, with
gradual empowerment of local communities for managing their development process and gradual
enlargement of the range of microproject options; (iv) transparency and accountability at all levels; and
(v) sustainability and replicability of the Project.



15
4.2    The implementation of the Project will be mainly carried out by existing institutions at both the
central and local levels. Project oversight and orientation will be the responsibility of a Program Steering
Committee (PSC) under the presidency of the Prime Minister and composed of equal representation from
the concerned ministries and civil society. The role of the PSC will be to (i) facilitate working relations
among entities concerned with project implementation (ministries, NGOs, donors, etc.); (ii) review the
progress towards achieving the Project's objectives and approve and evaluate the Project's annual work
program and budget, and (iii) ensure the participation of the key stakeholders in the general orientation of
the Project and arbitrate in case of conflict. The PSC will organize at least one annual joint meeting with
the government and the donors participating in the Project's financing. The composition and mandate of
the PSC was agreed upon during negotiations.
4.3    The technical secretariat of the PSC will be an autonomous Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
located within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The PCU's staff will be recruited in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for recruitment of consultants to ensure a highly qualified team (project
coordinator, financial and administrative manager, monitoring and evaluation coordinator,accountant, as
well as regional coordinators) for this ambitious project. The PCU will be responsible for overall
management and coordination, and in particular: (i) coordination of the preparation and implementation
of the different components, (ii) consolidation of annual work programs and budgets, (iii) setting-up and
implementation of an independent monitoring and evaluation system, (iv) definition andexecution of a
public information campaign, and (v) financial and administrative management of the Project.
4.4    The Ministry of Interior and Decentralization, through its Department of Directorate of Local
Communities will implement Component I - Support to Decentralized Rural Development.
4.5    MOA, through the PCU will implement Component 2, LIF, Component 3 (a, b), Community
Roads, and Component 4, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation. The immediate implementation of
Components 2 and 3a will be the responsibility of local governments.
4.6    Component 3 (c) - Institutional support of the Department of Rural Engineering will be
implemented by that department which is part of MOA.
4.7    The Project will maintain close links with the ministries responsible for basic education, health,
and water to ensure that the facilities comply with the standardized plans of those ministries and that they
will be properly staffed with qualified teachers and health workers upon completion.
4.8    NRIP coordination offices will be successively established in the nine regions. The Regional
Coordinator (RC) will coordinate project activities at the local level, provide support to participatingCRs,
and ensure implementation of the monitoring and evaluation program. The RCs will report directly to the
national coordinator.
4.9    CRs will be responsible for identifying and implementing community infrastructure projects for
financing under the LIF and the Community Roads components. Given the very limited capacity of local
governments, these will be required to procure technical advisory services. Local governments will have
the choice with whom to contract for such services, e.g., private companies, entities such asAgences
d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Publics (AGETIP), public rural development enterprises, NGOs, or
deconcentrated government agencies. Detailed procedures to ensure transparency are specified in the
PIM. Technical advisory services would include facilitating community participation and detailed
planning, design, and supervision of basic infrastructure.



16
4.10   No new government agencies will be created.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
I . I Five other options of alternative project design were considered for the Project:
*  The traditional integrated area development project based on a top-down, centralized approach
using national and international experts. This design has not yielded satisfactory results in the
past because the investment priorities were externally generated and not tied to an enabling
institutional framework. Thus, the targeted beneficiaries did not relate to the choice of investment
and institutions; moreover, mechanisms to ensure sustainability were not in place. In addition, the
coordination of multiple small infrastructure works proved to be too complex for central project
management units that lacked information, incentives and resources to enable such coordination.
+  The implementation of separate sector projects would have achieved efficiency in execution but
would lack the synergies of an integrated community-based development and would not have
favored the emergence of efficient and accountable local governments.
*  Implementation of projects similar to AGETIP could also have achieved speed and efficiency in
executing a large number of standardized types of infrastructure. That project setup focuses on
creating employment and fostering emerging civil works enterprises. It relies on contractors who
are able to realize certain economies of scale. The approach lends itself less to a large number of
small-scale work requests from scattered rural communities. Many of the AGETIP features will
be retained under the Project's implementation arrangements. However, AGETIP does not have
as a primary objective to foster local empowerment and capacity building and, therefore, limits
community ownership and the long-term sustainability of investments.
*  The Project could have been implemented along the lines of a classic community-based project,
of which IDA has now accumulated a series of successful experiences. However, these projects
have suffered from two major problems. First, they have proved difficult to scale-up. Second,
they have not been sustainable because institutional changes (for example, fiscal decentralization
and the emergence of accountable local government structures) that improve the way government
operates were not introduced.
*  Lastly, the traditional Social Fund model has not been retained. This formula was originally
conceived as an emergency response to pressing socioeconomic needs, but it fails to integrate and
strengthen the country's institutions. It is therefore unlikely to be sustainable in the long term
without substantial and continuous donors support.
1.2   The NRIP builds mostly upon the lessons from these community-based programs, but offers a
more systematic approach for sustainable rural development. This is achieved by broadening the scope of
intervention and by providing support to strategic institutional reforms at the national level and a strong
focus on capacity-building at the local level, to achieve sustainability and replicability.



17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision (Form ;90) Ratings
Sector issue     t               ProJeet                    (Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed:                                                 Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Transport               Transport Sector SECAL (Cr. 2266)             S                 S
Second Transport Sector Project (Cr. 3183:
effectiveness 12/99)                         S                 S
National Rural Transport Project (planned)
Agriculture             Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
(Cr. 2738: completed)                        S                 S
Agricultural Services and Producer
Organizations Project (PSAOP) (Cr. 2367:
not yet effective)                           S                 S
Social                  Social Development Fund/WID project
(planned)
Urban Development       Urban Development and Decentralization        S                 S
Program (Cr. 3006)
Education               Basic Education for All (planned)
AFD/French Cooperation   Decentralized development
KfW/GTZ                 Support to decentralization
CIDA                    Support to decentralization and fiscal reform
USAID                   Democracy & governance
Private sector development
UNCDF                   Health
IFAD                    Five area development projects in Louga,
Diourbel, Kaolack, Matam, and
Tambacounda
EU                      Decentralized rural development
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design
3.1 Experiences gained from rural development programs financed by the Bank and other donors in
different regions show that, in order to succeed, such projects should: (i) be identified, designed, and
implemented by communities/local governments, based on their needs and resources; (ii) start on a
modest scale and expand progressively; (iii) build on local social structures and invest in social
organization for implementation, operation and maintenance; (iv) transfer resources and responsibilities
to communities/local governments; and (v) ensure communities/local government ownership,
transparency and accountability.
3.2 A recent review by the Community Action Program (CAP) initiative indicates that, in Africa,
achievements of community-based programs have been limited for the following reasons:
(i) communities and local govemments are not empowered to manage funds directly; (ii) funds are
earmarked which limits community decision-making authority; and (iii) community-based programs
adopt too often a project approach neglecting institutional sustainability and avoiding necessary
institutional and fiscal reforms.



18
3.3  The NRIP has applied these essential lessons to its design. It provides direct financing to local
governments to fund priorities identified by communities. Local governments are in charge of budget
management and contracting and may devolve these responsibilities to community association. The
whole approach is embedded in the country decentralization process and seeks key reforms in order to
institutionalize quality community participation/empowerment and implement efficient fiscal
decentralization.
3.4  The Project design for Phase I already incorporates these lessons, as well as initial experiences
from the five CR pilot projects implemented during the preparation phase. The pilot exercise in theCRs
Kounkane, Koussanar, Paos Koto, Dealy, and Mbane was carried out with the assistance of NGOs. All
communities completed a participatory diagnostic and identified priority investments. TheCRs opened
bank accounts and deposited the counterpart funding, sometim[es with the help of emigrants. It is worth
noting that in several instances the Rural Head Tax was fully recovered in contrast to the situation prior to
the pilot activities. As of early December, contracting was getting under way. The same communities also
identified priority investments in community roads, which will serve as the first-year work program of
that component. This exercise has been invaluable in operationalizing the service-level approach to road
improvements and also helped identify training needs of NGOs and consultants in this area. It also
noticed that the communities do not make the distinction between community, regional, and national
roads when expressing their priorities. It will therefore be important to coordinate programming with the
Second Transport Sector Project.
3.5  The sustainability of rural road projects frequently suffers from  unclear institutional and
maintenance responsibilities. Maintenance arrangements need to be structured as an overall system with
responsibilities of the different levels clearly defined. Investments for road improvements also need to be
calibrated against communities' capacity for maintenance, either through community-based execution of
maintenance or contracting out. These lessons have been incorporated into project design.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
4.1 The GOS has made rural decentralization and empowerment of rural communities the central
element of its rural development strategy. The program has strong backing at the highest level of the
State. It has also already generated strong interest and commitment at the level of local communities,
which have long demanded more control over their development affairs.
4.2 The GOS has fully participated in the preparation missions and in the elaboration of the concept
paper. An interministerial committee was established and chaired by the President of the Association of
Chief Executives of Rural Communities (APCR), thus ensuring continuous input from civil society. This
committee was assisted by national and international consultants to produce thebackground studies upon
which the program was designed. At each stage in the process, seminars were held, which further
enhanced stakeholder participation.
4.3  The GOS has prepared a coherent long-term vision and strategy for rural development spelled out
in the Policy Letter on Decentralized Rural Development (PLDRD), based on a broad consultation
process with close association of the civil society and the donor community (see Annex 13). ThePLDRD
was adopted by GOS prior to negotiations. It clarifies the roles and responsibilities of rural institutions
and of the various partners in rural development. It outlines the specific measures to accelerate the policy
reform process, which would create an enabling environment for a more democratic and effective
approach to social and economic development in the rural areas. It also indicates the direction of change



19
towards greater coherence, sustainability, and greater devolution of responsibilities and resources to the
rural communities and local governments.
4.4 The GOS has also prepared a strategic framework for rural transport which is a precursor of its
national rural transport strategy. Following a series of background studies and stakeholder workshops, the
GOS is proposing a clear assignment of institutional and financing modalities while also sketching out
special interest areas, such as intermediate means of transport and gender.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
5.1 The Bank is in a unique strategic position to help GOS coordinate donor efforts with respect to
strengthening the decentralization process for rural development, integrating the urban and rural sectors,
designing national approaches to the funding of community-based infrastructure and securing sustainable
financing mechanisms for the maintenance of basic rural infrastructure.
5.2 The Project design includes valuable lessons from a variety of activities already implemented with
the support of other donors, notably regarding demand-driven local investment funds and participatory
local planning. However, IDA also brings to this project its significant international experience in the
areas of decentralization, social funds and demand-driven rural investment funds. The lessons learned
from the recently prepared Village Communities Support Program (VCSP) in Guinea and from ongoing
projects, for example in Ghana and Benin, have been useful in developing appropriate maintenance
mechanisms and designing relevant processes for the Local Investment Fund. Through the multidonor
Rural Travel and Transport Program (RTTP), the Bank is able to provide substantial input on rural
transport policy.
E. Summary Project Analysis
(detailed assessments are in the Project file, see Annex 10)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
1.1    The proposed project, as a first phase of a twelve year program will focus on institutional
reforms, capacity building of rural community institutions, funding of community-based rural
infrastructure which are mostly social in nature, and improvement of community roads. Furthermore,
although the major types of community-based rural infrastructures are known (health and maternity posts,
schools, water supply and sanitation, culverts, etc.), the scope and mix of such investment types will be
determined directly by the beneficiaries. Hence, a classical ex-ante cost-benefit analysis of the Project is
extremely difficult to conduct, but Annex 4 provides indications based on simulations and results
obtained from similar projects. At the end of Phase 1, the Project will conduct appropriate ex-post cost-
benefit analysis of the implemented microprojects. In addition, Phase 1 will implement a baseline survey
that will serve as a reference for an impact study to be conducted in Phase 2.
1.2    Experience from similar Bank-supported projects in other regions indicates that demand-driven
projects of this nature, involving beneficiary contributions, are highly cost effective. Given that
communities are directly responsible for the management of their yearly funding allocations from the
Project, they have a vested interest in achieving the best quality-price ratio and will seek to maximize cost
savings and ensure accountability. Furthermore, because communities are actively involved in
prioritization, implementation, and operation, it can be assumed that the micro- and subprojects that are
selected will be economically viable and well maintained. Available cost ratios show that health and
drinking water activities are highly effective, i.e., they cost less than $100 per DALY(Disability-adjusted
Life Year) saved (Source: Better Health in Africa: Experience and Lessons Learned, World Bank, 1994;



20
and Mauritania: Health Sector Investment Project, 1998.) Ex-post economic analysis in demand-driven
investment funds in the Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Program in Brazil indicates cost-savings of
more than 30% on basic infrastructure selected and implemented by local communities as opposed to
public services. Indicative of what might happen during Phases 2 and 3 of the program, the same analysis
shows Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) superior to 50% for selected productive subprojects
(small-scale irrigation, forage grinder, and cereals processing). Costs are further reduced because the
Project relies on contractual arrangements and standardized technical designs.
2. Financial (see Annex 4)
Fiscal impact:
2.1 The fiscal impact, that is, the changes in expenditure and revenue that government units are likely
to incur as a result of the NRIP, is assessed at both central and local government levels. Since the NRIP
functions as a demand-driven infrastructure fund, an exact quantitative assessment of the fiscal impact is
difficult at this stage because the exact mix of basic infrastructure investments is notyet known. Annex 4
provides details concerning the methodology and the hypothesis used for this analysis. The analysis
gauges the direction of the changes in revenues and expenditures induced by the program.
2.2    Central Government: In the short run, the program will increase the Government's expenditure
on infrastructure commensurate with the size of the Project credit. Because the program will essentially
finance social infrastructure during Phase 1, very little additional tax revenue will be generated at this
stage. Consequently, the GOS will have to incur some cost beyond the amount of revenue transferred to
local governments from the IDA credit. In the long run (second and third phase), however, the enabling
effects of increased physical and social infrastructure (better access to factors and product markets,
improved health and education of the work force) and the higher incomes provided by productive
activities will result in higher productivity, a larger economic output, and a larger tax base. Thus, in the
long term, the economic benefits of the program are expected to generate the resources necessary not
only to maintain the economic infrastructure, but also to help finance national expenditures.
2.3    Local Governments: Through the LIF, CRs will receive on average an annual envelope of
US$70,000 (about $4 to $5 per inhabitant) that will come in addition to usual their budgetary resources
(local taxes and government transfers from the Local Governnment Infrastructure and Equipment Fund
and the Decentralized Development Fund). These additional resources are expected to provide funding
for two or three microprojects, each averaging between US$15,000 and $20,000. Beneficiaries (local
communities and CRs) will be required to contribute at least 20 percent of the total cost, in materials,
labor, and cash. At least 5% will come from the budget of the CR. Through the community roads
component, CRs will receive an additional allocation of about US$55,000. Communities are expected to
contribute 5% of local investment cost in cash or kind and to aissume full responsibility for community
road maintenance. At a later stage, following implementation of the fiscal decentralization reform and
increased capacity, CRs will be expected to assume greater financial responsibility. In addition,
preliminary information from the pilot activities indicated that local tax collection improves as a result of
improved credibility of local government vis-a-vis its constituency. In the medium and long term, the
share of expenditure (capital and operating costs) financed by the CRs' resources (i.e., revenue raised at
the local level and transfers) will increase. In the long run, however, the economic benefits and the
savings expected to be generated by the program are likely to provide the tax revenues necessary to
finance recurrent and personnel costs, and expand further the provision of the goods and services
supported by the Project.
2.4    The expected contributions from CRs and beneficiaries are in line with current practices for
construction of basic rural infrastructure projects. They are high enough to provide incentives for



21
increased ownership and sustainability of microprojects, yet they are sufficiently modest to allow
participation by poor communities. Beneficiaries will assume responsibility for operating and maintaining
the completed infrastructure. Corresponding recurrent costs to the beneficiaries will usually be modest, in
the range of 5-10%  of the investment cost annually. Communities will be required to establish a
maintenance committee before funding for individual subprojects will be approved. For these reasons,
project-funded community infrastructures are expected to be cost-efficient to establish, and sustainable in
terms of their operation and maintenance. Cost-savings to the amount of at least 30% on basic
infrastructure and service provision due to the leveraging of local human and financial resources and the
use of standard technical design are also expected.
3. Technical
3.1    Under NRIP, responsibility for micro- and  subproject identification, preparation  and
implementation will be with communities and local governments. The issue of technical capacity and
quality of community-based infrastructure is addressed in the following ways:
(i)   The guiding premise for NRIP is that there is considerable latent technical and managerial
capacity at the local level. The pilot phase activities, conducted during the preparation
phase, have shown that this capacity is released by empowering communities through a
participatory process. To remedy shortcomings regarding administrative and financial
capacity at the local government level, the Project will provide a secretary/accountant for
participating CRs. Project funding for this position is temporary and it is expected that
government will take over after the first phase. Field operators (NGOs or private sector
firms) will be recruited to assist the CRs in elaborating participatory local development
plans and annual investment plans. Planned investments are predominantly simple
infrastructure, and local artisans and entrepreneurs have sufficient knowledge and
experience to execute them. The design and execution of these works will be facilitated by
the use of standard design plans. Project staff will undertake random quality checks of
works execution. Companies will be invited annually to register withthe Project's regional
offices and this registry will be made available to the CRs (see Annex 6, Procurement, for
details).
(ii) NRIP provides the option for communities to use a fixed amount of the resources
transferred to them to finance the recruitment of technical expertise to assistthem in the
procurement, design, supervision and final reception of works to ensure the quality of the
microproject. Under its capacity-building sub-component, NRIP will also provide a variety
of training for community leaders and local elected officials to upgrade their managerial
and technical skills.
(iii) NRIP will emphasize the promotion of sustainable mechanisms for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural infrastructures. For each microproject, a maintenance committee will
be set up from among the beneficiaries who will, for example, be in charge of mobilizing
counterpart labor contributions and collecting user fees.
4. Institutional
4.1    Various assessments conducted by national and international consultants have drawn similar
conclusions regarding the state of rural development and decentralization in Senegal. The fundamental
tenets of these analyses are that excessive centralization of decision-making and lack of accountability
undermine community and local governments' ability to manage their own affairs. Inadequate
intergovernmental fiscal transfers, cumbersome procedures, and a weak system for tax collection also



22
seriously hamper local development. All these factors severely constrain opportunities for resource
mobilization and local development and could lead to a loss of local governments vis-a-vis their
constituents.
4.2    Although central government devolved nine sectoral responsibilities to local govemment in 1996,
it has not yet transferred the necessary resources to implement them. This has led to frustration in the
communities and among local governments. Moreover, intergovernmental fiscal transfers (FECL and
FDD) are very small and often arrive late, so that local governments are not able to fully utilize these
meager resources. The rural tax collection system has been highly centralized with insufficient
transparency and sharing of information with local governments. Lastly, considerable confusion stems
from unfinished public sector reforms. While the broader institutional and legal framework for
decentralization is in place, it is necessary to speed up the process of operationalizing decentralization to
establish a critical momentum for change and generate interest and support among the population. The
driving force for this process should be the rural population, which is the ultimate beneficiary. NRIP will
provide the necessary impetus to accelerate the reform process in the rural areas.
4.3    NRIP will assist in addressing the deficiencies in the current implementation of decentralization
in the following ways:
(i) Lack of institutional capacity:
4.4    NRIP will increase the capacity of central government to monitor local development initiatives
and to ensure that the decentralization process effectively reaches the local communities. Phase 1 will
provide support to the CNDCL, which will become a focal point for policy debate and development on
decentralization, and will monitor and evaluate decentralization projects. Finally, the program will
support the transformation of APCR into an association of all elected rural council members. This will
give the association broader regional and national representation, through which it will be able to lead the
debate and the reform agenda on decentralization in the rural areas. NRIP will support the
implementation of the Government's Action Plan on Decentralization, which includes, i.e., information
dissemination campaign, placement of staff at the CR level to strengthen local governments, and capacity
building.
4.5    The Project will provide an opportunity to implement the government's framework for a rural
transport strategy. The strategy is expected to clearly spell out the responsibility of central government,
the regions and local government regarding investment and maintenance of the different road networks.
NRIP will support developing capacity at the CR level to program and maintain community roads. The
Project will also provide selected support to the Feeder Roads Office of the Ministry of Public Works, the
Rural Engineering Directorate or the to be created Road Agency to ensure the emergence of a coherent
advisory framework for rural transport.



23
(ii) Lack of resources at the local government level:
4.6    NRIP will strengthen the capacity of central government to follow up on the recommendations
made in the diagnostic study on the Fiscal System in Senegal undertaken by MOF and CIDA. NRIP will
complete the studies on the rural fiscal system necessary to implement the fiscal reforms in the rural
areas. These studies will address the deficiencies in the current system and propose mechanisms for
intergovernmental fiscal transfers for the rural areas, including broadening the tax base for CRs, and
defining of new modalities for resource mobilization by local governments. It is expected that these
reforms will be implemented during the first phase of NRIP.
(iii) Lack of accountability and transparency:
4.7    The program will implement a number of activities and mechanisms to make local governments
more representative and accountable to their constituency. In particular, NRIP will establish participatory
planning and a community forum which will include elected council members as well as representatives
of the various social, ethnic and economic segments of the community in order to ensure broad-based
consultation before decisions on local development are made by local government.
5. Social
5.1    The diagnostic studies undertaken during the preparation and the emerging experiences from the
on-going pilot phase point to significant social impact of NRIP as a means to foster participatory,
inclusive, and sustainable local development. The Project will be implemented on the basis of a demand-
driven approach, with resources transferred being placed at the disposal of the rural community to
directly administer. In this way, local communities will be able to exercise greater control and decision
making authority over their own affairs. This will foster cohesion and solidify the commitment to achieve
NRIP's stated goals among the local population. Through specific assistance from IFAD, the design of
the Project has focused on ensuring proper representation of vulnerable groups (young, women,
representatives of ethnic groups, and refugees) in the identification, design and implementation of
community development plans. A central element for ensuring inclusiveness will be the community
forum which will guide and monitor the decisions and management of local governments. Specific
mechanisms have been defined in the Project Implementation Manual to ensure that decisions and
implementation at local, level are transparent and that local governments are accountable to all.
Furthermore, the Project will foster the focus of the government's poverty reduction efforts on areas
where those efforts are most urgently needed. Components, such as local capacity building and
improvement of local governance, that are built into the Project will create an enabling environment for
increasing the chance of sustainability of the achievements in the area of poverty reduction not only in the
CRs directly concerned, but also nationwide due to the synergy and spillover effects inherent in such
achievements. The LIF component will contribute to providing much needed social infrastructure and
will thus improve rural living conditions. The Innovation Fund will contribute to revitalizing the rural
economy.
6. Environmental assessment      Environmental Category      [ ] A     [x] B       [ ] C
6.1    The justification for the rating in Category B is based on the expectation that the small size
community-based infrastructure will not generate significant negative environmental effects. However, to
mitigate potentially adverse environmental impacts, theNGOs working on capacity building for the local
governments will be trained in environmental management. They will help CRs screen projects for
environmental impacts and integrate required mitigation measures into project design. Environmental



24
mitigation capacity exists in various deconcentrated ministries; and the implementation manual, in
connection with the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), provides guidance as to which service the
CR might approach for assistance with mitigation measures. Environmental mitigation capacity will also
be created in the Department of Rural Engineering to monitor environmental effects of project activities,
and to propose and implement appropriate mitigation plans. DNGR will closely liaise with the Ministry of
the Environment on this. The EIA has been cleared by the Bank's relevant environmental technical unit of
Africa Region (AFTE1).
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
7.1    The preparation of the Project has been based on a collaborative process involving local teams
comprising consultants, government officials from relevant ministries, and CR representatives who have
been working with an international support team. This broad-based team has used a series of surveys and
workshops with communities and with other key stakeholders at the local and central level to solicit
views, ideas and opinions on the design and implementation arrangements ofthe Project. These findings
were incorporated into the Project concept.
7.2    The methodology  for participatory  diagnosis and  planning  for the  preparation  and
implementation of local development plans is being tested under the ongoing pilot phase (see section
D.3). Participatory monitoring and evaluation of project activities by beneficiaries will provide necessary
feedback to adjust project implementation arrangements and procedures.
b. Other key stakeholders:
7.3    This spirit of broad consultation was further extended to the national level, involving a wide
spectrum of stakeholders and interested groups. The President of the APCR chaired the inter-ministerial
committee in charge of the preparation process, reflecting that the rural communities are the driving force
guiding the preparation process. Resulting discussions, in particular during the validation workshop in
October 1998 and March 1999, helped refine the Project design and incorporate additional flexibility and
scope for testing different approaches. The workshops involved government agencies, opinion leaders,
NGOs, donors, and locally elected officials. This process ensured that the views of all key stakeholders
were taken into consideration during the formulation, thereby encouraging long-term commitment and
partnership.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
1.1    This project seeks to ensure sustainability by institutionalizing the process of community-based
development. To that end, the NRIP relies on the local government as the local body for promoting rural
development. By strengthening local governments' capacity, setting up systems forgovernment transfers,
and creating a conducive institutional framework, the NRIP will ensure the sustainability of the
institutional structures and fiscal resources after this program comes to completion. Sustainability is
further enhanced because: (i) recurrent costs for program administration will be relatively low, as the
Project implementation relies on existing institutions, competitive contractual arrangements and
simplified and standardized preparation, costing, and evaluation procedures for microprojects;
(ii) mechanisms to ensure transparency and accountability have been incorporated in the Project's
implementation procedures; and (iii) adequate maintenance arrangements are a prerequisite for the
funding of any microproject and future funding will be based on a CR's track record in maintenance.



25
1.2    Empirical studies of collective action demonstrate that sustainable local institutions are those that
are organized around common interests and tangible benefits. The strong focus on capacity building will
also increase the ability of the key actors to organize themselves to plan, manage and sustain local
development efforts. The clarification of the roles and responsibilities of each party involved in local
development will enhance the sustainability of the effort and will serve to improve the interface between
decentralized services and civil society.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                                        Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
GOS does not honor its commitment to             M       Implementation of the policy letter on
decentralization and participatory rural                 decentralized rural development.
development.                                             Continued dialogue with key stakeholders and
the Bank.
Poor interministerial collaboration for policy  M        Steering committee including various ministries
reform on decentralization.                              and chaired by the Prime Minister.
Ministry of Agriculture and/or other government  M       Autonomous Project Coordination Unit with
agencies interfere in project implementation.            clear roles and responsibilities.
Steering committee which approves annual
work program and budget.
Local banks are not available and functional to  M       Assess banking system and non-banking
support the receipt, housing, and disbursement of        financial support systems, and implement
LIF                                                      progressive approach: only CRs with access to
proper banking/financial system eligible during
the first phase while the banking/fnancial
network continues to develop.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Local governments do not establish successful   M        Assist CRs to evaluate tax base and develop
mechanisms for collecting local taxes and                mechanisms. Assist with improving local
mobilizing other local resources to provide              resource mobilization and making the system of
matching funds to implement LDPs.                       intergovernmental fiscal relations efficient and
tailored to the need of decentralization.
Local governments do not operate with           M        Ensure that transparency is promoted as a key
transparency and accountability and are subjected        element of the Project through detailed project
to political interference.                              implementation manual, specific mechanisms, a
grievance and penalty process.
Slow decision-making and lengthy processing of  M        Delegate powers to local govermnents, but with
microprojects at central level.                         regional project coordination units closely
monitoring, coordinating, and providing
backup. Maintain flexibility with active
supervision schedule.
Overall Risk Rating                          Moderate
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), 14 (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
3.1    The NRIP preparation process has been highly participatory and has involved a wide range of
stakeholders. As a result, the risk of unforeseen controversial aspects has been greatly reduced.



26
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
a) the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association;
b) the Borrower has opened a Project Account and deposited therein the amount of the Initial Deposit;
c) the Borrower has appointed all the key staff, including 5 of the 9 regional coordinators, for a period
of two years, with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Association;
d) the Borrower has established the PSC and the PCU with membership, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association;
e) the Borrower has promulgated a decree, in form and substance acceptable to the Association,
providing for the statute of the community secretary;
f) the Borrower has established a financial accounting and management system, satisfactory to the
Association, and adopted a Financial Procedures Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the
Association; and
g) the IFAD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled.
2. Other
Conditions for Appraisal
a) Draft final of the policy letter on decentralized rural development was circulated to donors for
comment;
b) Draft annual work program for project year 1 is available;
c) Draft project implementation manual was prepared;
d) Draft decree for the PSC and PCU with membership, functions and responsibilities was prepared;
e) Terms of reference for key contractual staff of the PCU, i.e., national coordinator, administrative and
financial manager, coordinator for monitoring and evaluation, and regional coordinators were
prepared and are acceptable to IDA:
f) Recruitment process for the national coordinator was launched by a recruitment agency;
g) Draft decree for the community forum with membership, functions and responsibilities was prepared;
h) Proposals for banking and financial transfer mechanisms for transfer of funds to the CRs were
prepared;
i) Framework for the National Rural Transport Strategy was approved by the Comite Directeur -
Transport Rural of the Second Transport Sector Project; and
j) Priority community roads program for the five pilot CRs was finalized according to terms of
reference.
Conditions for Negotiations
a) The policy letter on decentralized rural development was approved by the Govemment;
b) Framework for the National Rural Transport Strategy was approved by Government;
c) The Project Coordinator, who is acceptable to IDA, was recruited and participated in the negotiations;
d) Decree for the PSC and PCU with membership, functions and responsibilities were adopted by
Government;
e) Draft regulation and contract for the local government secretary/accountant were prepared jointly by
the DCL and the Ministry of Finance;
f) The contract for the PPF audit for 1998 was signed and sent to IDA;



27
g) Terms of reference, acceptable to IDA, for the financial management and accounting system and the
selection of auditors were adopted; and
h) List of the CRs of the first phase was presented to IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
(a) The preparation of a program implementation plan, including the first year annual work plan has been
prepared; and
(b) The procurement plan for the first year activities would be completed prior to negotiations.
I. Compliance with the Bank Policies
The Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
g XD               u~~~~~~- SALL_
Team Leaders:       Susanne Holste                           S;uzarne Piriou-Sall
,;Q,                           ''Issi-Faisar   hass
Sector Managers:    Main    lessis-Fraissard             K.L J      aul Chausse
Country Director:    Mahmood A. Ayub



28
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Rural Infrastructure Program
Goal-Purposes-Output relation of the National Rural Infrastructure
Program (NRIP)
C,01%.  Reduce poverty and improve
ps Althe living standards of the:
G%g1                rural population
Nt              Promote                            Strengthen local
decentralized rural                      governance
development
Improve the            Establish participatory         Increase access
regulatory,               mechanisms for                of the poorer
institutional, and            funding and                     rural
fiscal framework for         implementing rural            communities to
decentralized rural       community investment                basic
development                  programs       J           infrastructure
Support for Decentralized Rural          Community Roads Program
Development                              Implementation of the National Rural
Promulgated decrees and texts            Transport Strategy
Action Plan on Decentralization         Identify and implement priority program in
implemented                              conjunction with TSP2
CNDCL and APCR strengthened              Strengthened National Directorate of GR
Local Development Plans and AIP
adopted by participating CRs
Establishment of implementation and
maintenance committees
Local Investment Fund
Rural Investment Fund and Innovation
Fund set-up and operating



29
Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
CAS related Goal:            Sector Indicators:               Sector ! Country Reports:        (from Goal to Bank
-Revitalize the rural economy,   -Incidence of rural poverty  Poverty Profile                   Mission)
reduce rural poverty and     -Human development indicators    Annual UNDP Human Development  Political stability
improve living conditions of                                  Report                           Successful development and
the rural population                                          Regular country monitoring       implementation of requisite
sector strategies
Long-term Program Purpose:  Program Phasing:                  Program Reports:                 (from Purpose to Goal)
1) Promote decentralized rural   Phase 1: Initiation          Participatory evaluation surveys  Government commitment to
development                  - legislation relative to CRs    Publication of regulatory and fiscal   decentralized rural
2) Strengthen local governance   decentralized taxation and financial  reforms                  development
management, and relative to the  CRs annual activities and budget
reform of fiscal transfers to CRs  reports
have been reviewed and adopted by   Project reporting
the Borrower
- regulatory texts, prepared by the
CNCDL, harmonizing
implementation modalities of
decentralized rural development
policies and programs have been
reviewed and adopted by the
Borrower
- participatory mechanisms for
funding and implementing rural
community investment programs are
established
- at least 700/. of targeted CRs have
successfully completed at least two
microprojects
Phase 2: Expansion
- reforms fully implemented
- mechanisms and access to
infrastructure same as in phase (I)
on larger geographic basis
- menu of funding options
broadened
Phase 3: Graduation
-effective local capacity to mobilize
resources, implement, operate, and
maintain rural public infrastructure
-responsiveness, accountability, and
transparency have become the
operational rules for local
government



30
1) Improve local governance  -Promulgated decrees and texts     Governient gazette                Effectiveness of steering
and local capacity            -at least 80% of participating CRs                                  committee in coordinating
have received at least 80% of the                                   decentralization reforms
planned training
2) Establish participatory and    -Participating CRs have prepared  Beneficiary participatory evaluation
decentralized mechanisms for   local development plans and have  survey
selecting, funding and       implemented annual investment      CRs annual activity and budget
implementing rural community   programs in a participatory manner   reports
investment programs           -populations are satisfied with their   Project report
participation level and find that rural
infrastructures respond to their basic
needs
3) Strengthen the national    3) Institutions play a leading role in   Project reporting
institutions supporting       discussions on modalities of
decentralization              decentralized rural development
policies and programs
4) Implement basic            4) At least 60% of approved       CRs annual activity and budget    Resources for rural
infrastructure in a selected  microprojects (in year 1, 2, 3) have   reports                      development are available in
number of rural communities    been successfully completed      Project reporting                  a timely and efficient manner
1) Support for Decentralized Rural Development
-Improve legislation on       -Promulgated decrees and other    -Publication of regulatory and fiscal  -Availability of counterpart
decentralization              regulations to implement the      reforms                           funding
-Action Plan on Decentra-     decentralization law              -CRs annual activities and budget    -Government carries out
lization is implemented      -Local institutions are set up and  reports                          commitment to reforms
-CNDCL and APCR               administrative and financial support  -Project reporting            -Effectiveness of training
strengthened                 to them provided                                                     and awareness programs on
-LDPs and AlPs adopted by     -Secretary/accountant nominated at                                  decentralization and
participating CRs             CR level                                                            participatory processes
-Establishment maintenance
committees
2) Local Investment Fund
- Rural Investment Fund and   -Contractual agreements signed with  -project reporting             -Territorial administration
Innovation Fund set-up and    60 CRs                            -audits                           and regional elected
operating                    -at least 70% of targeted CRs have                                   governments do not interfere
an unqualified financial audit                                      in LIF funding and operation
-Banks and financial
institutions are available to
channel LIF funds
3) Community Roads Program
- Priority program in 60 CRs  -60% of the total kilometers of the    -Project reporting           -Territorial administration
identified and implemented   community roads improved under    -technical audits                  and regional elected
- Piloting of mechanisms for  NRIP are regularly maintained                                       governments do not interfere
management and maintenance   -community roads maintenance                                         in selection of community
of community roads            strategy formulated                                                 roads
implemented                  -Mission statement and action plan                                   -Banks and financial
-Department of Rural         for Department of Rural                                              institutions are available to
Engineering strengthened      Engineering formulated                                              channel component funds
4) Project Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation
-PCU and regional offices set   -The M&E system established under
up and operating             NRIP is operational
-M&E system set up



31
Project CovponciisISu-   InputSV (budgtfor i --. -                  trports-                    (from Componeats to:
componentsm                        couiptnep) Ouuts)
1) Support for Decentralized Rural
Development                                   10.7
(a) Support to the reform of the rural                        Project reporting                 -Local development plans
fiscal and financial management                               Budget reports                    reflect a transparent and
system                                                                                          participatory process
(b) Strengthening of the capacity of
local government                                                                                Bank provides sufficient
(c) Support to national-level                                                                  resources for project
decentralization agencies                                                                       supervision
Decentralized decision
making processes used
Informed choice of
investments made by
communities
2) Local Investment Fund (LIF)                133
(a) Rural Investment Fund                                     Project reporting                 -Local governments
(b) Innovation Fund                                           CRs annual activities and budget  establish successful
reports                          mechanisms for resource
mobilization
-Spontaneous participation
of communities in project
activities and financing
-PCU, regional offices and
DDI provide timely response
to CRs applications
-Availability of local
enterprises to execute works
3) Community Roads Program                    11.6           _
(a) Implementation of the community                           Project reporting                 Local governments establish
roads programs                                                CRs annual activities and budget  successful mechanisms for
(b) Piloting of mechanisms for the                            reports                          resource mobilization
management and maintenance of                                                                  -PCU, regional offices and
comrnmunity roads                                                                               DDI provide timely response
(c) Institutional support for                                                                   to CRs applications
Department of Rural Engineering                                                                -Availability of local
(MOA)                                                                                           enterprises to execute works
-Government pursues
formulation of national
strategy on rural transport
4) Project Coordination, Monitoring
and Evaluation                                6.0
(a) Coordination                                              Project reporting                 -Bank provides adequate
(b) Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                   supervision



32
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$10.7 million - Support for Decentralized Rural Development
Description and Organization of the Component
This component is designed to strengthen the institutional, human and fiscal capacity of institutions
responsible for decentralized rural development. It will be implemented by the Department of Local
Communities (Direction des Collectivit6s Locales - DCL). It has the following sub-components:
a. Support to fiscal decentralization reform for rural areas
b. Local capacity building
c. Strengthening of national institutions in charge of designing and implementing decentralization
Support to fiscal decentralization reform for rural areas
The objective of this sub-component is to improve the financial base and financial management capacity
of rural local government. It has been designed to support and complement the Ministry of Finance's
program of reforms regarding intergovernmental fiscal relations and local finances. In order to correct a
certain urban bias of that program this sub-component will give due attention to fiscal reform in rural
areas within a coherent national fiscal decentralization framework.
The main activity will be to implement pilot programs in about 15 CRs, in parallel with Government's
on-going urban pilot activities. The sub-component is geared towards improving the flow of local
resources and its management modalities. It will research ways of improving CRs' tax base and rate and
will develop and test fiscal/budget instruments and procedures adapted to rural conditions. Training and
information dissemination activities are included in the sub-component. It will also develop specific
training programs targeted at local government staff.
Local Capacity Building
The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen CRs' effective and participatory management of
local affairs. The major activities will support local management and planning, local governance and
information sharing.
(i) Support to CRs' managing capacity
The provision of appropriate technical assistance, training, adequate staffing, and equipment will permit
CRs to take responsibility for the maitrise d'ouvrage of their infrastructure works. The NRIP will:
(i) finance field operators (NGOs and/or private firms) to assist CRs in managing the contracting process,
producing technical documents and designing a maintenance and operation strategy; (ii) finance, on a
contractual basis, a community secretary/accountant to assist the CR with administrative and financial
management; this person will be accredited by the Ministry of Finance's Treasury which will also provide
training for this staff; and (iii) provide to the CRs basic equipment such as a motorcycle, office material,
and means of communication.



33
(ii) Support to localplanning
This activity consists of updating, through a participatory process, the Local Development Plans (LDP)
that already exist in all CRs and extracting from them the Annual Investment Plans (AIP). Field operators
will train communities and conduct a participatory diagnosis in order to identify and classify CRs'
priorities. The participatory diagnosis will also help identify community training needs and design
effective institutional and financing mechanisms for implementing, managing and maintaining basic
infrastructures. The participatory approach will help ensure that (i) decision-making processes are
equitable and transparent, (ii) true community ownership emerges, and (iii) a real community
commitment to operate and properly maintain the infrastructures exists.
The LPDs and AlPs will be debated first by the community forum before being proposed to the CR
elected council. This forum, composed of elected rural council members and representatives from civil
society and vulnerable groups, will be an advisory body to the CR. Composition, responsibilities and
operational guidelines are detailed in the Project Implementation Manual and, in due time, will be
formalized by the Ministry of Interior.
(iii) Animation, Training, and Information
The NRIP, as noted above, will recruit field operators to support and advise CRs. These operators will
(i) help communities prioritize their demand, (ii) help assess and organize training, (iii) facilitate the
circulation of information, (iv) ensure that vulnerable groups are included, and (v) foster synergies
between local governments, their constituents and the other local development stakeholders.
Training will encompass three major areas: decentralization, management of local government, and the
microproject cycle. It will assist local actors in developing their understanding of decentralization
policies, as well as their various roles, functions and duties. It will also enhance their managerial and
technical capacity to better fulfill their responsibilities. The training program willtarget local elected
officials, community leaders, and, to a limited extent, deconcentrated services. The training program will
also foster exchange of experiences and the transfer of competencies among peers. To that effect, it will
finance local workshops and study tours.
All these activities will be designed and implemented in partnership with APCR and DCL. They will be
part of the National Action Plan for the implementation of decentralization policies and will support the
DCL efforts to coordinate training.



34
The National Council for the Development of Local Communities (Conseil National pour le Developpement des
Collectivites Locales - CNDCL) was crated in 1996 and is chaired by the President of the Republic or the Prime Minister.
A large number of ministries are represented: Justice, Interior and Decentralization, Defense, Economy, Finance and Plan,
Education, Agriculture, Environment, Water, Communication, Public Works, Urban Development and Housing, Public
Health and Social Action, Public Service, Culture, Employment, Youth and Sports, and Women, Familiy and Children.
Furthermore, the National Directors of the following departments are members: Local Communities, Territorial
Administration, and Communication. Two deputies represent the National Assembly and two Governors including the
Governor of Dakar are included. In addition, two representatives of the following associations belong to the Council:
Presidents of the Regional Councils, the Association of Mayors, and the ALssociation of Rural Chief Executives, and finally
the Director of the Agency for Municipal Development. The representatives of the socio/professional associations are
nominated by the organization and confirmed by the President of the Republic.
The CNDCL meets at least once a year and is mandated to:
.   pronounce itself on laws and decrees concerning local communities;
.   give advice on the distribution criteria for the Fund for Decentralized Development (FDD);
.   make suggestion on the distribution criteria of the FDD for newly decentralized sectoral responsibilities between the
level of the region, the municipalities and the rural communities;
.   evaluate what dispositions are necessary to promote local development and proper functioning of executing agencies;
.   establish a yearly evaluation of decentralized donor assistance; and
*   monitor the implementation of the decentralization and deconcentration reforms and coordinate actions to be
implemented to ensure the success of these reforms.
The Project will give support to CNDCL to enhance its capacity for analysis and evaluation. The CNDCL will play an
important role in the evaluation of the NRIP.
Strengthening of national institutions in charge of designing and implementing decentralization
The objective of this sub-component is to support the process of rural decentralization by strengthening
the capacity of national actors engaged in the fornulation and implementation of decentralization
policies. In particular, the activities under this sub-component are targeted at the CNDCL, the DCL, the
APCR, and technical departnents of core ministries.
The NRIP will strengthen the CNDCL's capacity to analyze, monitor, and evaluate decentralization
policies. In particular, the CNDCL should ensure that the rural communities' interests are well
represented in policy-making, resource allocation, and assessment of impact. Building a national capacity
for evaluation at this level will also help to monitor and evalluate results of the various donor-funded
programs, and provide for better informed policy decisions regarding the harmonization of the National
Decentralized Rural Development Program (NDRDP).
The NRIP will also strengthen DCL's human and material resources to enable it to coordinate and
supervise Component 1. In addition, the NRIP will finance a study of rural technical deconcentrated
services in order to rationalize their roles and functions and improve their effectiveness. This study will
be conducted in close collaboration with the PSAOP team working on the restructuring of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
The NRIP will support the restructuring of APCR into an association of rural elected council members
and will strengthen its capacity to provide services to CRs. In the process, APCR will have to revise its
statutes and mission in favor of CRs. To that effect, the NR1[P will provide training, equipment, and
technical assistance.



35
Lastly, the NRIP will build the capacity of technical departments of core ministries through the
strengthening of their human and material resources, to help them better fulfill their responsibilities for
implementing rural decentralization.
Project Component 2 - US$13.3 million - Local Investment Fund (LIF)
Description and Organization of the Component
The purpose of the Local Investment Fund is to reinforce local development by providing matching grants
directly to Rural Communities (communautes rurales - CRs) for implementing their LDPs/AIPs. The LIF
has the following fundamental characteristics:
*  participatory identification and selection of microprojects;
*  mandatory local contributions;
*  transparent management of resources;
*  local management of all works performed under contract; and
*  local responsibility for operation and maintenance of the rural infrastructure created under the
program.
The Local Investment Fund has two financing windows: (i) a Rural Investment Fund (RIF) which
constitutes 80% of the component's funds and (ii) an Innovation Fund (IF) representing 20% of funding.
During Phase 1, the LIF will fund basic infrastructure identified by the communities (health and
maternity posts, schools, water supply and sanitation, culverts, etc.) on the basis of a participatory
diagnosis and from a positive list of infrastructure eligible for financing listed in the Project
Implementation Manual.
The participatory diagnosis will help with the identification of the Community Forum, to be establishedin
each CR as a key eligibility criteria for LIF funding. Traditionally marginalized and vulnerable groups,
civil society, and professional associations will be adequately represented in the forum. The forum will
have a consultative role and would review, prior to their adoption by the CR, the LPDs and AlPs.
This Forum will:
* ensure a participatory planning of local investments;
* help identify priority investments;
* circulate information throughout the CRs; and
* help create local synergies.
It is expected that each community will receive a yearly allocation which will be disbursed in
installments. The exact amount of the allocation, on average $70,000, will depend on criteria including
the population and poverty index of the CR (see Annex 4b). Approximately 60 CRs will benefit from
funding during Phase 1. The access of the communities to this fund will be based on clear and specific
eligibility criteria detailed in the PIM and binding for all participating CRs. These criteria include for first
time eligibility: establishment of a community forum, an approved LDP and AIP, and proof of the
mobilization of the CR's and of beneficiary contribution for microproject financing. For each type of
infrastructure, the LIF will contribute a maximum of 80%, and the CRs and the beneficiary populations a



36
minimum of 20% of the total cost in the form of labor, materials and/or money. At least5% of investment
cost will be contributed from the CR's budget.
An action-research setup, the Innovation Fund, will also be created to prepare the modalities for broadening
the menu of eligible microprojects to community productive investments, and to improve on a continuous
basis the LIF implementation procedures. Findings from the two-year test operations on community
productive investments will be examined during theNRIP's mid-term review to determine the usefulness
and modalities of funding these types of investments. In addition, theIF will finance technical support for
other action-research activities in critical areas of community participation and representation, and local
planning.
Responsibilities   Communities  CR    Community  Field Operators  Contractors  Sub-Prefect
Forum
Identification of  xxx                              Support
Priorities
Selection                             xxx
Adoption                     xxx                                                  x
Implementation      x        xx                   Assistance to      x
maitrise d'ouvrage
Maintenance        xx        xx                                      x
x - Some involvement; xx - Significant involvement in the decision making process; xxx: Key Actor
a) Identification and Selection of Microprojects
The NRIP will contract field operators to assist rural communities, for example in the participatory
diagnosis process and the updating of the LDP. Priority investmnents identified by the Community Forum
will be proposed to the rural elected council, included in the AIP, and then approved as part of the
communal budget by the Sous-Prefet. Following this, the proposals will be transmitted to the Project's
regional office and then forwarded to the PCU.
CRs will be able to contract technical assistance from public or private services to help them prepare
technical documents for priority investments, and up to 8% of CRs' annual allocation under the LIF can
be used for this. To allow CRs to retain the advisory services of a technical public service, for example
the rural development extension centers (centre d'expansion rural polyvalent - CERP) or the public
development enterprises, a framework agreement will be formulated between NRIP and the government.
For each microproject, a package will be transmitted to the Regional Office that will verify that the
microproject fulfill all eligibility criteria (technical design, implementation modalities, financing and
maintenance mechanisms). If the application presents some irregularities, the Regional Office will
request additional information from the CR. The Regional Office will then request from the PCU that
funds be transferred onto the CR's bank account.



37
b) Implementation and Maintenance of Microprojects
CRs will manage and supervise LIF-funded capital investments. They will mobilize local contributions
and negotiate contracts with service providers for the implementation of themicroprojects (see previous
paragraph).
The maintenance of microprojects will be the responsibility of an Infrastructure Maintenance Committee
(IMC) to be created for each such investment. A maintenance fund equivalent to 1% of the total cost of
the microproject will be established and will demonstrate the willingness of the beneficiaries to maintain
the infrastructure.' In addition, the CR will establish a budget line for the maintenance of the
infrastructure for which it will be responsible.
c) Monitoring Annual Investment Plans
By law, the sous-prefecture, the tutelary authority of CRs, is responsible for approving LDPs and local
annual budgets. Regional offices will be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of the
microprojects proposed by the CRs. These offices will prepare trimestrial reports to that effect under the
direct supervision of the National Monitoring and Evaluation Director.
Implementation of the Component
The CRs will be responsible for implementation of community infrastructuremicroprojects qualifying for
LIF financing along the following principles: (i) identification, selection, operation, oversight and
maintenance, by and for the benefit of communities; (ii) contractual implementation of works by local
artisans, private enterprises, or by the communities themselves; and (iii) responsibility for technical
supervision and monitoring of microproject implementation shared by CRs, territorial administration and
deconcentrated sectoral services.
Management of the LIF at the national level will be the responsibility ofthe Project Coordinator who will
head the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) located within the Ministry of Agriculture. The Special
Account will, however, be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance Directorate for Investment
and Debt (Direction de la Dette et de l 'Investissement, DDI). DDI will receive instructions from the PCU
to transfer funds in local currency to individual accounts of qualifying CRs, opened at branches of local
commercial banks or the post offices, acceptable to IDA. DDI will not verify the transfer requests
because this work will be carried out by the regional units of the Project. The time delay accorded to each
entity in treating transfer requests will be specified in the PIM. This transfer system will be evaluated at
the mid-term review and might be revised at that point. The CRs will be responsible for the correct use of
the transferred funds as well as for the funds coming from the CRs and from the beneficiaries.
At the level of each participating CR, there will be a petty cash account from whichcontract payments for
microprojects up to $3,000 can be made. These payments are authorized by the president of the CR and
paid by the community secretary/accountant. Payments above this threshold are also authorized by the
president of the CR but are carried out by the public accountant of the Treasury at the level of the
department and withdrawn from the bank account of the CR.
' The 1% will be part of the beneficiaries' contribution (20% of investment cost).



38
Over a one-year period commencing in November 1998, project concepts and approaches have been tested
in five pilot CRs with the assistance of field operators with relevant experience in participatory techniques
and community development. Based on the lessons learnt during these pilots, the Project approach will be
refined, and the details of its implementation adjusted prior to credit effectiveness to better reflect local
realities; these will be reflected in the PIM.
Project Component 3 - US$11.6 million - Community Roads Program
Description and Organization of the Component
This component is designed to improve rural access and to provide support to the Department of Rural
Engineering Directorate of Ministry of Agriculture. It includes three cluster of activities:
* community roads program;
* piloting of mechanisms for the management and maintenance of community roads; and
* support to the Department of Rural Engineering Directorate of Ministry of Agriculture.
Community Roads Program
The principal objective of this sub-component is to improve access within the territory of the 60 CRs of
Phase I of the program. Following the adoption by the Government of the Strategic Framework for Rural
Transport prior to negotiations and in coherence with decentralization policy, community roads leading
from the seat of local government (chef lieux) to the villages are the responsibility of local government.
Roads that connect the seat of local govermnent to the main road network, or those that connect the seat
of local government of two CRs, will be the responsibility of the central government. It is expected that
investment for community roads will come from the budget of central Government or from external
funding. Central and local government will each assume the responsibility for maintenance of its
network, although exception can be granted. Once the Region has emerged as a veritable level of
government, a regional network might be established.
The approach and execution of the Community Roads Program will follow the principles of the LIF. This
process will require that the CRs identify their needs for improved access (both village access and
agricultural feeder roads) and prioritize these needs. The inclusion of the prioritized rural roads in the
program will be subject to eligibility criteria defined in the PIM, which include:
* the selected rural roads are defined as part of the priorities identified in the LDP;
* investment proposals are within the prescribed service level;
* local contributions of 5% in cash or in kind are required; and
* the CR will contract with service providers for the necessary technical assistance and with
qualified contractors for the execution of works.
The inclusion of rural roads that link the chefs lieux of two CRs will be conditional on whether these
roads are included in the state-maintained network and whether their routine maintenance is financed by
the Road Fund.
Each CR will receive a yearly allocation of about $55,000 from the Project. Subsequent allocations will
be dependent on proper maintenance of those community roads which previously received project
funding. Prior to establishing their community road programs, CRs will receive training to make
informed choices about service levels and resulting costs for investment and maintenance. Following
extensive field work and discussions with beneficiaries, the service levels have been defined from



39
Level 0 (impracticable road at all times) to Level 5 (all season access, easy and fast circulation). These
levels are described in detail in the PIM.
Given the limited technical and managerial capacity of local government, they will be required to contract
for technical assistance to carry out the bidding and selection process. This technical assistance should
not exceed 3% of the contract amount. Consultant engineers retained for this step are not allowed to bid
for either works or supervision control. The CRs can chose from a list of qualified service providers.
Each year, a national publicity will be launched inviting interested parties (for example, deconcentrated
government services, public development enterprises, NGOs or engineering offices) to make their interest
known to carry out such contracts. Based on screening criteria, the PCU in collaboration with the regional
offices will then establish a list of qualified service providers. This list will be updated regularly and
provided to the CRs.
Works will be carried out by qualified contractors, following national competitive bidding. It is expected
that the annual work program of each CR will be awarded to one contractor and that the work will be
packaged in three to four annual tranches, thus providing a continuous work load for the contractor.
Details of the process, sample contract documents, etc., are given in the PIM. Given the small yearly
allocation, it is expected that works will be primarily for critical spot treatment.
Works will be supervised by qualified service providers, following the sample principles as described
above. In addition, the CR can request additional advice from deconcentrated government services
(CERPs, Ministry of Transport, etc.) or from the Project's regional offices. There will also be spot
supervision missions by the Project staff to verify the quality of the work of both contractors and
consultants.
Project funds for this component will be transferred from the Project's Special Account to the bank
account of the CR, following the same principles as for the LIF. Contract payments will be authorized by
the president of the CR and will be carried out by the public account at department level; funds will then
be withdrawn from the CRs bank account. No payments will be carried out from the imprest account at
the CR level.
This component will be closely coordinated with the Second Transport Sector Project which provides
funding for the classified road network. Annual work programs for the CRs targeted by the NRIP will be
forwarded to the Feeder Roads Office of the Ministry of Transport, or the soon-to-be created National
Roads Agency to ensure coherence of network investments.
The approach described above has already commenced in the 5 pilot CRs and has shown promising
results. These CRs are in a somewhat unusual position because they already have a relatively good
community road network and are well connected to the main road network. It is expected that road
conditions in the majority of CRs are much worse and that project investment will mainly be used to
ensure basic access. The need for training of NGOs, engineering consultants, and contractors has become
apparent and will be met by the Project. It is expected that the works will to a large extent consist of
critical spot treatment, a technique which is just beginning to be used in Senegal, and which is
specifically mentioned in the Letter of Sector Policy of the Transport Sector.
Piloting of Mechanisms for the Management and Maintenance of Community Roads
It has been noted that since the 1970s, the non-paved rural road network has fallen into serious disrepair,
due to a lack of funds, the absence of a general policy for rural roads maintenance, and the absence of



40
maintenance arrangements by projects focusing on rural roads improvements. The GOS is currently
formulating, under the PST2, a rural transport strategy. This strategy, which addresses road network
planning, management and maintenance, takes into account the decentralization policies, and is expected
to be finalized before effectiveness of NRIP. Based on this, the Project will be able to more definitively
conceive and put in place the mechanisms for planning, management and maintenance for the rural road
networks in the CR, including those concerning the mobilization of resources for maintenance.
Emphasis during implementation will be placed on the utilization of local private sector capacity. This
strategy includes local economic interest groups (groupement d'interet economique - GIE) which are
often community-based contractors for routine maintenance tasks requiring labor-intensive methods.
Preventative and periodic maintenance tasks, requiring heavy equipment, will be contracted through
National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
Institutional Support to the Department of Rural Engineering of the Ministry of Agriculture
The NRIP proposes to (a) assist the department to define its mission statement and develop an
action plan for its implementation and (b) provide the department with support in project execution,
i.e., environmental mitigation measures in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment.
Project Component 4 - US$6.0 million - Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
This component will have two sub-components:
a) Project Coordination, and
b) Monitoring and Evaluation
a. Overall Organization of the Component
The implementation of the Project is mainly carried out by existing institutions at both the central and
local levels. No new government agencies will be created. Project oversight and orientation will be the
responsibility of a Project Steering Committee (PSC) under the presidency of the Prime Minister and
composed of equal representation from government and civil society. The role of the PSC will be to
(i) facilitate working relations between entities concerned by project implementation (ministries,NGOs,
donors, etc.); (ii) review the progress towards achieving the Project's objectives and approve and evaluate
the Project's annual work program and budget; and (iii) ensure the participation of the key stakeholders in
the general orientation of the Project. The PSC will organize at least one annual joint meeting with the
Government and the donors participating in the Project's financing. The composition and mandate of the
PSC will be agreed upon during negotiations.
The technical secretariat of the PSC will be an autonomous Project Coordination Unit (PCU) located
within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The PCU's staff will be recruited in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines for consultant recruitment to put in place a highly qualified team (Project coordinator,
financial and administrative manager, monitoring and evaluation coordinator, accountant, as well as
regional coordinators). The PCU will be responsible for overall management and coordination, and in
particular: (i) coordination of the preparation and implementation of the different components;
(ii) consolidation of annual work programs and budgets; (iii) setting-up and implementation of an
independent monitoring and evaluation system; (iv) the definition and the execution of a media campaign;
and (v) the financial and administrative management of the Project.



41
The Ministry of Interior and Decentralization, through its Department of Local Communities (Direction
des Collectivites Locales), will implement Component I - Support to Decentralized Rural Development.
MOA, through the PCU, will implement Component 2, LIF, Component 3 (a, b), Community Roads, and
Component 4, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation. The immediate implementation ofcomponents 2
and 3 (a, b) will be the responsibility of the local governments.
Component 3 (c) - Institutional Support of the Department of Rural Engineering will be implemented by
that Directorate which is under MOA.
In addition, the Project will maintain close links with the ministries responsible for basic education,
health, and water to ensure that the facilities being constructed are consistent with the plans of those
ministries and that their facilities will be properly staffed with qualified teachers and health workers upon
completion.
NRIP coordination offices will be successively established in the nine regions. The Regional Coordinator
(RC) will coordinate project activities at the local level, provide support to participatingCRs, and ensure
implementation of the monitoring and evaluation program. The RCs will report directly to the national
coordinator.
Local governments will be responsible for identifying and implementing community infrastructure
projects for financing under the LIF and the Community Roads components. Given the very limited
capacity of local governments, these will be required to procure technical advisory services. Local
governments will have the choice with whom to contract for such services, e.g., private companies,
entities such as AGETIP, public development enterprises, NGOs, or deconcentrated government
agencies. Details are specified in the PIM. Technical advisory services would include facilitating
community participation and detailed planning, design, and supervision of basic infrastructure.
No new government agencies will be created.
b. Financial System andAudit
One special account will be established and managed by the DDI as stipulated by a recent government
decision to centralize all special accounts within that department.The PCU will, however, closely follow
and monitor the transactions of the special account. The services involved in the different components
will maintain separate financial records in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles and
will prepare separate financial statements. The accounting information will be consolidated at the end of
each fiscal year. The financial services of the each executing agency will be in charge of preparing the
financial records of its component. The Administrative and Financial manager ofNRIP's Coordination
Unit will consolidate the financial statements for the activities funded by the World Bank. The manager
will make the necessary arrangements to conduct the annual audit of NRIP's Coordination Unit and the
various executing agencies. The Government will ensure that the external auditors are independent and
approved by the World Bank.
c. Monitoring and Evaluation
The objective of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is to respond to the internal management
and supervision needs of all the Project's stakeholders, including the executing agencies responsible for
implementing the different project components, CRs for the microprojects, the Steering Committee,
donors, and the Government. In addition, this system will have to meet the specific needs of an APL. As



42
such, the M&E system shall, on a regular basis, provide pertinent information on performnance indicators,
trends, and triggers for passing from one phase to the next.
To this effect, the functions of project monitoring and project evaluation will need to be properly
separated. Monitoring is essentially an internal management tool and will therefore be developed and
used by the executing agencies. Evaluation, on the other hand, should be conducted independently by
external service providers.
The monitoring system will be organized as a network with each executing agency in charge of
monitoring its own activities. The executing agencies will be connected to one another and to thePCU,
which will maintain a consolidated system. The PCU's M&E specialist will be in charge of:
(i) developing and implementing a data collection system appropriate for establishing the perforrnance
indicators of each project component; (ii) compiling and consolidating on a quarterly basis monitoring
information including data related to expenditure and disbursements; and (iii) preparing consolidated
quarterly implementation reports for the overall Project.
Progress reports will be submitted twice a year. Each executing agency will be required to submit a
trimestrial progress report for its component to the PCU no later than one month following the end of
each semester. The PCU's M&E specialist will incorporate these individual reports into a consolidated
progress report for the entire project.
Independent performance evaluations of the Project will be conducted every two years. During Phase 1,
these performance evaluations will focus on: (i) the assessment of the effect of project activities on the
beneficiaries with particular focus on vulnerable groups; and (ii) an operational audit of the Project.
These two evaluations will be based on data provided by the evaluation system as well as on surveys and
interviews of beneficiaries and the different partners participating in project implementation. The
evaluations will highlight lessons learned, which will be used to improve the efficiency of project
implementation, to make adjustments to the implementation manual, and to identify improvements for
content and implementation procedures for Phase 2.
The mid-term review and an evaluation at the end of the Project will be conducted jointly by theGOS and
the cofinanciers of the Project. These reviews will be based in part on the results and recommendations of
the evaluations indicated above and will help make adjustments resulting in a more efficient
implementation of the Project.



43
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Copent                               USS million
1. Support for Decentralized Rural Development          6.9            3.0            9.9
(a) Support to the fiscal and local financial reforms   0.7            0.5            1.2
(b) Local capacity building                             4.9            1.8            6.7
(c) Strengthening of national institutions              1.3            0.7            2.0
2. Local Investment Fund                                2.2           10.1           12.3
3. Community Roads                                      3.7            6.3           10.0
a) Community Roads Improvement                          2.5            5.2            7.7
b) Piloting of mechanisms for community road            0.8            0.5            1.3
management and maintenance
b) Strengthening of Department of Rural Engineering     0.4            0.6            1.0
4. Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation              4.3            1.3            5.6
(a) National Coordination Unit                          2.1            0.5            2.6
(b) Regional Coordination Units                         2.2            0.8            3.0
5. PPF                                                                 1.3            1.3
Total Baseline Cost                                    17.1           22.0           39.1
Physical Contingencies                                 0.4            0.8            1.2
Price Contingencies                                    1.1            1.5            2.6
Total Project Costs                18.6           24.3           42.9
.Locl        Foreign        Totial
Project Costbrc y a              :   i                  mllon
Civil Works (sub-project grants)                        2.3            5.6           7.9
Goods                                                   0.8            1.6           2.4
Consultant Services                                     4.3            1.3           5.6
Training                                                4.7            1.3           6.0
Matching Grants                                         2.2           10.1          12.3
Operating Costs                                         2.9            0.8           3.7
PPF                                                                    1.3           1.3
Contingencies                                           1.4            2.3           3.7
Total Project Costs                18.6           24.3          42.9



44
Annex 4
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1. INTRODUCTION
The movement towards decentralization has a relatively long history in Senegal.Rural communities were
first established in 1972, but the elected councils and chief executives had little power in terns of
responsibilities or resources. Further steps towards decentralization were taken in 1985 with the
formation of Regional Integrated Development Plans (RIDP), .followed by the first Municipal Investment
Plans (MIP) and the Local Development Plans (LDP) for rural communities. Each rural community in
Senegal now has its own LDP. In 1990 the responsibility for management of rural communities was
transferred from the sous-prefet to the rural council's chief executive for each of the 320 rural
communities (and 48 rural municipalities).
A turning point in the decentralization process occurred in 1996 when administrative and fiscal
responsibilities for nine previously centralized domains were transferred to the local level: domain,
natural resource management; health, population, and social action; youth and sports; culture; education;
development planning; spatial planning for infrastructure; and housing.
Senegal is now administratively organized:
*      with 'deconcentrated' public services at the level of the region (administered by the governor),
department (administered by the prefet) and the arrondissemenL (administered by the sous-prefet) -- these
state representatives have a mandate to oversee the actions of the local communities; and
*     with 'decentralized' local government at the level of the region (administrated by an
elected/appointed regional council with responsibility to promote regional economic and social
development), municipalities (administered by an elected municipal council and elected mayor), andrural
communities (administered by an elected rural council/chief executive as legally recognized entities with
financial independence) levels.
The National Rural Infrastructure Program (NRIP) seeks to strengthen local governance in rural Senegal
and promote social and economic empowerment of the rural population, including vulnerable groups.
Upon completion of the NRIP final phase, local communities and their representative local governments
will have developed the capacity to identify, implement and manage their own infrastructure and service
needs. For an APL operation such as the NRIP, detailed economic analysis is required for the first phase.
Operations in the first phase of the NRIP, however, are largely directed towards institutional
strengthening and provision of basic infrastructure via a demand-driven Local Investment Fund. They do
not lend themselves to detailed ex-ante cost-benefit and rate of return calculations. Instead, a qualitative
analysis is required to discuss the economic rationale for undertaking the operation and its benefits and
costs.
In the first phase of the program, the targeting of basic services (potable water and sanitation, health,
education, access) most needed by the poor will contribute to poverty alleviation, while the choice of
labor-intensive implementation and the use of local entrepreneurs in the provision of these services will
create employment and increase rural income. In turn, better access to safe drinking water, health care,
education, roads and thus markets will raise productivity and increase market incentives. Thus, along with
capacity building to strengthen Govemmenfts ongoing efforts to achieve fiscal, administrative and
political decentralization, the first phase will pave the way for productive and income-generating
activities, which will be the focus of the second and third phases of the program.



45
NRIP/LIF funds will be used mainly for the provision of public goods and services which justifies the use
of public funds to finance the proposed program. In addition, the funds will be used to redress the urban-
rural bias in investment spending by targeting the rural communities. For income-generating and
productive activities to be gradually introduced during Phase 2, targeting mechanisms towards the poorest
segments of the population and increased cost-recovery will be sought. IFAD will pilot adequate
mechanisms and eligibility criteria for those initiatives during Phase I.
The NRIP would give a strong emphasis to empowering local communities, local governments, and other
key stakeholders to enable them to play an increasing role in the identification, design, implementation
and management of rural development projects, and contribute more efficiently to national economic
growth.
2. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
The following four alternatives were considered for the program -- all were rejected as being less cost-
effective in reaching the stated program objectives than the design chosen:
* The traditional approach of integrated rural development keeps the responsibility for planning and
implementation essentially in the hands of central government. This approach fails to generate
community ownership, thus leading to inferior operation and maintenance of investments. The
coordination and top-down implementation of multiple small-scale public infrastructure works is
generally too complex and suffers from a lack of adequate and timely information, poor incentives, and
inadequate resources. This approach has typically fallen short of expectations.
-     Another option consists of a series of separate sector projects. Although, this option could
achieve some efficiencies in execution, it lacks the potential synergies of an integrated community-based
development program. It would be difficult to foster ownership by communities since they would not be
making the key decisions regarding prioritizing microprojects. Furthermore, such an approach would
neither encourage nor support the emergence of efficient and accountable local government.
*     The AGETIP-type approach relies on contractors to realize economies of scale in executing large,
standardized types of infrastructure. However, the very speed and efficiency in realizing such large-scale,
top down infrastructure is rather ill-suited for demand-driven, small-scale, numerous and varied rural
infrastructure investments in local communities. In addition, AGETIP does not foster local empowerment
and capacity building and, therefore, limits community ownership and the long-term sustainability of
investments.
* Finally, the classic community-based project, of which IDA has now accumulated a series of
successful experiences was considered. Despite their success, these projects have suffered from two
major problems. First, they have proved difficult to scale-up. Second, they have not been sustainable
because institutional changes (such as fiscal decentralization and evolution of accountable local
government structures) that improve the way government operates have not been introduced.



46
3. FISCAL IMPACT AND COST RECOvERY
The NRIP will both increase the level and change the structure of public investments with potentially
large long-term benefits, both public and private. There will be a direct impact, varying over time, on at
least three groups: the central government; the local governments and the beneficiaries. Although the
demand-driven and innovative nature of the program is not conducive to ex-ante quantitative analysis, a
monitoring and evaluation system is being designed to provide the data needed to track these issues. The
qualitative ex-ante analysis that follows, suggests positive fiscal impact and cost recovery over the long
term, provided complementary investments are made to improve the productivity and economic
opportunities of primarily agriculturally-based rural population.
Central Government
Through project borrowing, the central government will increase the level of public spending for the
provision of public goods (access, potable water and sanitation, basic education and health facilities) at
the local level. Cost recovery based on increased economic activity and tax collection at the local level is
likely to be limited in the shortterm. The first phase will indeed target social services rather than income-
generating activities. Tax income on inputs for LIF investments and from incremental economic activities
will be small and the low initial income level ofrural households precludes any short-term prospects for
cost recovery. In the second and third phases, funding for income-generating activities is expected to
improve income-earning capabilities. In the long run, through increased productivity of better educated
and healthier economic agents, the capacity of rural population to contribute to tax income will gradually
increase. In the absence of an income tax, this will occur largely through increased expenditures and
hence increased revenues from value-added tax for the central government. Complementary investments
to improve the agricultural productivity and economic opportunities of a primarily agriculturally-based
rural population will be needed to ensure such cost recovery.
In comparison with alternative approaches, involving similar levels of public investment, the fiscal
impact of NRIP on the central government will be minimal. Under the NRIP, unit investment costs will
be lower since local beneficiaries are more likely to choose the most cost-effective investment options.
Also, for a given investment scheme, the willingness of beneficiaries to contribute to the cost will reduce
the central government's outlays. In comparison, the recurrent costs that would have been borne by
central government under alternative approaches, will now be paid at the local level. Decentralization will
result in an improvement in the efficiency of public expenditure, which should reduce the strain on the
central budget and increase the chances for sustainability. In the long run, the economic benefits of NRIP
should largely offset the initial negative impact on the central government's budget.
Local Government
Rural communities have had a difficult time acquiring the financing needed to promote local
development. Although 80% of the population of Senegal live in rural areas, the total budget for local
governments amounts to only 6-8 % of the central government budgetl (Table 1). Excluding the Dakar
region, the total budget for local governments (municipalities and rural communities) is only 1.5 - 2.0%
of the central government budget, with rural communities operating on less than a third of that amount
(i.e., 0.4 - 0.6 % of the central budget).
' Central governmuent budget's figures include local government receipts due to the units de caisse system. As local
receipts, these funds are earmarked for the localities from which they were collected.



47
The urban-rural 'bias' is more pronounced on a per capita basis. Comparing local government budgets at
the municipalities and rural communities levels, the annual budget for municipalities averages 18,750
FCFA per capita (across years and regions) while that for the CRs averages only 300 FCFA per capita
(about US$0.80 per capita). The inter-annual variation, particularly in the budget ofCRs, is quite large,
making effective investment planning difficult. The NRIP will have an obvious positive impact on the
size of the CR investment budget -- the LIF envelope of US$70,000 per CR2 (on average, US$1500 to
US$3000 per village) will increase the per capita CR budget five-fold (to US$4.80).However, it will also
have an important positive impact on the inter-annual variability of the budget creating efficiency gains
and an important rural equity impact.
Operating and investment revenues for the local government come from locally generated taxes (fiscal
and non-fiscal) as well as central govermnent transfers. In 1996, total revenues for the average CR
(approximately 14,500 inhabitants in 35-40 villages) were 6.3 million FCFA (about US$11,500). Of the
total, 80% was budgeted for operating expenses (Table 2). The bulk of the operating budget comes from
the 'rural tax' revenues (65%), with the remainder from taxes on the use of public spaces (16%), taxes on
the use of public services (2%) and the excedent de cl6ture (17%).
The 'rural tax' is collected annually as a fixed amount per capita (between 500 and 1000 FCFA). It is
levied on all persons aged 14 to 70. The average recovery rate for the rural tax is 38%. It is assumed that
recovery rates will increase as rural communities gain more control and decision making power over their
fiscal resources, and this has already been witnessed in the case of the five pilot CRs. However, the
tremendous variation across years, across regions and across CRs, suggests that factors other than
community empowerment are at play. A preliminary analysis of the data, across regions and years,
indicates a strong correlation between rural tax recovery rates and agricultural production.
The two principal types of funds transferred from the state to the local level are theFonds de Concours or
Fonds d'Equipement des Collectivites Locales (FECL) and the Fonds de Dotation de la Decentralisation
(FDD). The FECL was initially intended for public investment expenditures at the commune level.
Starting in 1993, a fixed amount of 3 million FCFA was transferred to the CR if it recovered 100% of the
rural tax (nothing otherwise). A graduated scale has since been introduced to 'reward' CRs that recover
more than 75% of the rural tax.
With the 1996 transfer of responsibilities to the local communities came a 1997 transfer of resources (the
FDD) to cover the operating/recurrent costs associated with the additional responsibilities. For the
education sector, the size of the FDD transfer was based on the amount the central government had been
spending on the sector, in the locality, prior to the decentralization of responsibilities. For the health
sector, the FDD transfer stops at the region and municipal levels and for the culture and youth/sports
sectors, the amount is identical for all CRs.
Of the nearly 6 billion FCFA of FDD funds transferred in 1999, about 4% was destined for the CRs, 34%
for the municipalities, and 60% stayed at the regional level. There is a great deal of variation in the per
capita FDD transfer across regions, and within regions across CRs. For example, the average FDD
allocation per CR varies from 33 FCFA per capita in the region of Diourbel to 88 FCFA per capita in the
region of Ziguinchor. Within Ziguinchor, the allocation varies across CRs from 16 FCFA per capita to
191 FCFA per capita, and within Diourbel from 10 FCFA per capita to 74 FCFA per capita. Although
2 The following costs give an idea of the relative magnitude of the CR investment fund: the construction cost of a
one classroom school (for 55 students) is about US$5,000 (equipment costs are an additional US$2,000); for a
maternity center construction costs are US$11,000; for a small health post, US$3,800; for a watering hole,
US$2,500; for a small well, US$200-500; and for a reservoir, US$22,000.



48
certainly a reflection of the level of existing social infrastructure, further analysis is needed to understand
the basis of these disparities across regions and CRs.
Fiscal decentralization shifts resources from the central government to the local government. The NRIP
will substantially increase the CR investment budget and improve the local capacity to manage such
resources. Enhanced local government credibility vis-a-vis the population, should increase the recovery
rate for existing local taxes. In addition, the tax base is expected to expand through funding of income-
generating activities in the second and third phases of the program. However, sustainable local revenue
generation (at the household and local government level) will depend on an increase in the productive
capacity of local populations which, in the case of rural Senegal, will require an increase in agricultural
productivity through technological innovations and improved market (output, input, credit) access.
Beneficiaries
Given the demand-driven nature of the program, the financial impact on beneficiary communities is
expected to be positive, particularly for the income-generating investments of the second and third
phases. In the first phase, the financial impact remains positive, though quantitative estimates are difficult
and some of the benefits will flow in the long run. Better access to water and health will increase
productivity and thus financial rewards; better access to roads by improving market access will boost
financial inflows to local beneficiaries. Labor-intensive implementation of basic infrastructure will also
increase income through additional employment. In the case of education and, to some degree, for health
services, the financial benefits will be realized in the long run.
In the first phase, beneficiary communities will contribute, at least 20 percent (in kind or/and cash) ofthe
total investment cost of basic infrastructure microprojects. Such a contribution is in line with, though
somewhat higher than, current practices for construction of basic rural infrastructure projects. It is high
enough to provide incentives for increased ownership and sustainability of microprojects, while being
sufficiently modest to encourage participation by poor communities. The average investment is expected
to be less than US$15,000 to US$20,000. Beneficiaries would assume responsibility for operation and
maintenance of basic infrastructure funded under LIF, in line with current policies and practices.
Corresponding recurrent costs to the beneficiary communities would usually be modest, in the range of
5-10 percent annually of the micro-project investment cost.
In the second phase, beneficiaries' contribution to income-generating investments will be substantially
higher than for basic infrastructure and may reach or exceed 50%. In addition to assuming full
responsibility for operation and maintenance of these activities, cost recovery at community level would
be sought to help promote sustainability, generation of resources at the local level, and better
accountability. The experience gained from pilot activities to be conducted in the first phase of NRIPwith
support from the Innovation Fund would help to determine the best means to apply these principles
4. Cost-Benefit Analysis
The demand-driven and adaptable nature of this program does not lend itself to standard cost-benefitor
least-cost analysis, particularly in the first phase which focuses on the provision of social services.
However, the economic rationale of the Project remains strong and it is possible to demonstrate that
(a) the NRIP will generate substantial economic benefits; and (b) compared with alternative approaches,
the NRIP improve cost-efficiency and sustainability.
Economic benefits: The impact of improved access to social infrastructure (e.g. water, education, health
facilities, access) has both short-term and longer-term (generational) impacts in terms of improved health,
nutrition and labor productivity. In the first phase of the NRIP, the main economic benefits can be
summarized as follows:



49
* Maintenance and rehabilitation of community roads will increase access to markets and social
services, such as health care and education. Better access to markets will generate economic benefits
from market transactions, whereas access to social services increases productivity, which in turn
contribute to increase income.
*  Investment in education and health care services contribute to poverty reduction in the shortterm by
improving the quality of rural life, and in the longterm, through a more productive work force, to overall
economic development.
* Investment in safe drinking water and sanitation by improving the health ofthe rural population, as
well as a reduction of the time spent, especially by women, in transporting water will contribute to
poverty alleviation and increase the productive capacity of rural people, particularly women. The benefits
of improved water supplies (quantity and quality) on health outcomes are well documented. These health
benefits in turn lead to labor productivity and income gains via a variety of direct and indirect pathways.
Directly, (a) healthier individuals are able to spend more 'effective' hours in wage and farm work and
(b) fewer 'sick days' releases labor for productive activities. Indirectly, improved health (a) decreases the
amount of 'care time' spent with sick relatives thereby releasing labor for productive activities,
(b) decreases the time required for complementary activities such as fuel wood collection which might be
necessary when water is contaminated and (c) may alter the portfolio of income-generating activities
undertaken by the household, since individuals with health risks might engage in lower-output activities
that are less sensitive to labor supply interruptions (Hoddinott, 1997). One study estimates the labor
productivity losses due to stunted growth at 9% (Pinstrup-Andersen et.al., 1996). In addition, there are a
series of second round effects to improved health. For example, higher incomes lead to increased
expenditures on commodities that improve health (e.g., higher quality diets) and expenses associated with
being sick decrease. Studies also show that better health also leads to direct improvements in schooling
outcomes (Behrman, 1996).
* The NRIP will also contribute to employment and income generation in rural areas, both directly
(through involvement of local artisans and village workers in the construction of basic infrastructure
funded under the Project) and indirectly (through the new and/or additional economic opportunities
generated by road improvement and improved capacity for economic activity due to better health and
water supply).
Starting in the second phase of NRIP, productive activities to be funded under LIF will make a direct
contribution to revenue earnings, and hence poverty alleviation, in rural areas. This development will be
deferred until the second phase of NRIP because productive investments are more complex to implement
than basic small scale infrastructure. They have higher requirements for technical assistance, and
targeting mechanisms towards the poorest segments of the population need to be developed.
Cost-efficiency and sustainability: NRIP has been designed to enhance cost efficiency and sustainability.
Efficiency gains are expected to be derived from the decentralized decision-making and investment
process. In particular, recent project evaluations indicate that the cost-sharing arrangements along with
active participation of the beneficiaries in microproject selection and implementation bring the decision-
making closer to the beneficiaries. Such conditions not only create incentives to keep investment costs low
and the quality of service delivery high, but they also increase the likelihood of micro-project
sustainability. The NRIP will also promote cost-efficiency through contractual, rather than hierarchical,
relationships of beneficiaries both with administrative staff in charge of managing the LIF and with other
technical support agencies. The standardization of microprojects' documents, technical designs and unit
costs will simplify the preparation and evaluation of microprojects under LIF, facilitate procurement,
provide a technical and financial reference for local communities and reduce the over-design of micro-



50
projects. Such standardizing encourages participation by poorer communities and reduces bottlenecks in
the microproject cycle.
In conclusion, experience with investment funds for similar decentralized rural development projects in
Latin America and Asia has shown that communities generally choose investments which can be
expected to have a very high rate of return, such as water supply, improvements of roads and schools. In
addition, the Project Implementation Manual will include simple eligibility criteria for specific
investments to ensure that they are economically justified (e.g., number of people served by spot
improvement of a community road, distance from next water point for construction of a well orborehole,
etc.).
5. Risk Analysis
There are three principal risks that could jeopardize the achievement ofthe Project's objectives. The first
would arise if the GOS were to waiver in its commitment to promote effective decentralization. To
mitigate the risk, project support will be provided for the formulation and implementation of
decentralization reforms. The second risk pertains to possible fraud and lack of transparency in the
management of funds at the local level. Direct involvement of beneficiary communities in
implementation and funding of microprojects, tight project controls on the use of funds, penalties for
fraud, and information campaign will greatly reduce this risk. Last, the NRIP needs to ensure an equitable
and representative decision-making process. To that effect, the program will use participatory planning
and animation techniques in order to include vulnerable groups in decision-making processes. Moreover,
all committees at the local level will be mandated to include representation from vulnerable groups.
6. Poverty Analysis
The economic benefits derived from the NRIP will reach all segments of the rural population including
the poorest. Targeting to the rural poor will be achieved indirectly through: (a) the kinds of projects
financed under LIF (e.g., small, inexpensive projects for improvement of community roads, water supply,
school classrooms); (b) participatory processes at community level designed to ensure that the views and
priorities of all segments of the rural population are represented in the selection of investments to be
funded under LIF; and (c) the choice of labor intensive methods for microproject implementation that will
result in employment generation for the poor. The M&E system will place due emphasis on assessing
vulnerable groups' satisfaction with project impact. Vulnerable groups, including women's groups, are to
be specifically targeted within the pilot productive microproject component.



51
Table 1. Magnitude of the local communities' budgets in comparison with the overall central state budget (by region), 1993-95
EXPENDITURES (millions deFCFA)        |             RELATIVE SHARES                         GROWTH RATES                      PER CAPITA RATIONS (FCFA)
1993       1994       1995       1996        1993       1994       1995       1996       93944       94-95      95L96       1993       1994        1995       1996
CENTRAL BUDGET                        255.900,00 301.500,00 366.200,00 394.300,00   100.00%    100.00%    100.00%    100.00%       17.82%      21.46%      7.67%      32.336      37.083     43.584      45.598
Region of DAKAR                        17.189,08   15.544,87   19.635,51   19.322,54   6.72%       5.16%      5.36%      4.90%      -9.57%     26.32%     -1.59%       9.543       8.306      9.849       9.342
Municipality of Dakar                  9.617,29   8.356,68   10.841,70   11.552,03    3.76%      2.77%      2.96%      2.93%     -13.11%     29.74%       6.55%      12.536     10.644      13.496     14.055
Urban community of Dakar               5.833,80    4.689,79    5.480,53    4.392,57   2.28%      1.56%      1.50%      1.11%     -19.61%     16.86%    -19.85%        3.355      2.599       2.847      2.200
Greater Dakar                          1.703,04    2.457,03    3.271,78   3.349,64    0.67%      0.81%      0.89%      0.85%    44.27%      33.16%       2.38%        955        1.310      1.661      1.620
- Rural CommuniUes                         34.95      41.37       41.50      28.30     0.01%       0.01%      0.01%      0.01%     18.36%      0.33%    -31.80%         560         620        601        397
Region of DIOURBEL                        408.85     512.16     504.55      700.11     0.16%       0.17%      0.14%      0.18%     25.27%      -1.48%     38.76%         562        683         652        877
- Municipalities                          292.03     309.15      353.53     436.02     0.11%       0.10%      0.10%      0.11%      5.86%      14.36%     23.33%      14.695      14.958     16.453      19.522
- Rural Communities                       116.82     203.01      151.02     264.08      0.05%      0.07%      0.04%      0.07%     73.78%    -25.61%      74.86%         205        346         250        423
Region of FATICK                          253.01     398.06      311.34     331.84     0.10%       0.13A     0.09%      0.08%     57.33%    -21.79%       6.58%        453        700         538        564
- Municipalities                          162.51     198.95      124.71     124.86     0.06%       0.07%      0.03%      0.03%     22.42%    -37.32%       0.13%       8.178       9.626      5.804       5.590
- Rural Communities                        90.49     199.12      186.63     206.97     0.04%       0.07%      0.05%      0.05%     120.04%     -6.27%     10.90%         185        401         371        407
Region of KOLDA                           170.21     411.79      337.23     345.72     0.07%h      0.14%      0.09%      0.09%    141.92%    -18.11%      2.52%A        253        598         478        466
- Municipalities                          104.44     226.76      208.80     176.01      0.04%      0.08%      0.06%      0.04%    117.11%      -7.92%    -15.70%       5.255      10.972      9.718       7.881
- Rural Communities                        65.77     185.03      128.43     169.71     0.03%       0.06%      0.04%      0.04%    181.32%    -30.59%      32.14%         113        310         211        266
Region of KAOLACK                         955.39    1.181,17    1.291,19    1.381,96   0.37%/o     0.39%      0.35%      0.35%     23.63%       9.31%      7.03%       1.034       1.246      1.328       1.386
- Municipalities                          743.45     897.78    1.011,44    1.137,15    0.29%      0.30%       0.28%      0.29%     20.76%      12.66%     12.43%      37.410      43.440     47.072      50.913
- Rural Communities                       211.94     283.39     279.75      244.81     0.08%k      0.09%      0.08%      0.06%     33.71%      -1.28%    -12.49%         302        394         381        326
Region of LOUGA                           322.33     434.78     426.39      435.01     0.13%       0.14%      0.12%      0.11%     34.89%      -1.93%      2.02%         620        827         803        812
Municipalities                           252.74     298.71     302.68     315.47      0.10%      0.10%      0.08%      0.08%      18.19%       1.33%      4.23%      12.718      14.453     14.087     14.124
- Rural Communites                         69.59     136.08      123.71     119.54     0.03%       0.05%      0.03%      0.03%     95.55%      -9.08%     -3.37%         167        326         295        284
Region of SAINT-LOUIS                     470.04    1.138,05    971.44    1.131,59     0.18%/      0.38%      0.27%      0.29%    142.12%    -14.64%      16.49%         641       1,520      1.272       1.453
- Municipalities                          352.38     982.33     886.41    1.024,00     0.14%       0.33%      0.24%      0.26%    178.77%      -9.77h    15.52%      17.732      47.532     41.253      45.847
- Rural Communities                       117.66     155.71       85.03     107.59     0.05%       0.05%      0.02%      0.03%    32.34%    -45.39%      26.52%         234        305         164        205
Region of TAMBA                           170.66     299.35     278.37      274.44     0.07%       0.10%      0.08%      0.07%1   75.41%       -7.01%     -1.41%         390        667         605        583
- Municipalities                           94.69     183.59      182.41     208.42      0.04%      0.06%      0.05%      0.05%     93.88o    -0.64%       14.26%       4.765       8.883      8.489       9.332
-Rural Communifies                        75.97      115.76      95.96      66.02      0.03%      0.04%      0.03%      0.02%      52.38%    -17.11%    -31.20%         208         310        251         169
Region of THIES                           769.12    1.098,31    611.77    1.182,04     0.30%       0.36%      0.17%      0.30%     42.80%    -44.30%      93.22%         710        986         534       1.005
Municipalities                           587.00     780.55     365.90     885.71      0.23%      0.26%      0.10%      0.22%      32.97%    -53.12%    142.06%       29.537     37.768      17.029     39.656
Rural Communities                        182.12     317.76     245.87     296.33      0.07%      0.11%      0.07%      0.08%      74.48%    -22.63%      20.53%         269        457         347        419
Region of ZIGUINCHOR                      291.93     439.18     521.17      510.71     0.11%       0.15%      0.14%      0.13%     50.44%      18.67%     -2.01%         642         941       1.088      1.039
- Municipalities                          285.93     404.09      468.721    390.96      0.11%      0.13%      0.13%      0.10%     41.33%      15.99%    -16.59%       14.388     19.553     21.814      17.504
- Rural Communities                         6.00      35.09       52.45     119.75     0.00%      0.01%      0.01%      0.03%   484.66%      49.48%1  128.32%           23         132        202        454



52
Table 2. Composition of annual budgetary receipts for the average rural community -- 1996
average across all regions
Millions of  US$ per CR    US$ per          Total
FCFA per                     capita        budget
CR                                      share
Total receipts                                 6.30       11,500          0.79         100%
Operating receipts                             5.07        9,200          0.63          80%
1. Fiscal receipts                         3.30         5,980          0.41         65%
Rural tax (per capita)                   3.29         5,920          0.40          99%
Othertaxes                               0.01            60          0.01         < 1%
2. Non-fiscal receipts                     0.92         1,656          0.11          18%
Tax on the use of public space           0.80         1,441          0.09          87%
Tax on the use of public services        0.12           215          0.01          13%
3. Excedent de cl6ture                     0.85         1,564          0.11          17%
Investment receipts                            1.23        2,300          0.16          20%
Source: Etude sur lafiscalite des collectivites locales. 1999. ACDI/Dakar.
Table 3. 1996 annual CR budgets by region and central governmentfonds de concours
(investment) transfer as a share of total CR budget
1996 total   1996 CR     1996 CR   1996 investment
CR budget  budget per   budget per transfer (FECL)
No. of Total        (millions    CR (millions  capita    as share of total
Region        CRs   population   of FCFA)   of FCFA)    (FCFA)   CR budget
Dakar              2       54,207        113        56.50       2,082         79%
Diourbel          32      486,603        218         6.81         449         10%
Fatick            35      598,153        224         6.40         375         27%
Kaolack           41      626,100        308         7.51         492         29%
Kolda             43      531,622        111         2.58         210         11%
Louga             47      427,879        117         2.49         274         36%
Saint-Louis       30      568,261         61         2.03         107          7%
Tambacounda       32      322,512         40          1.25        125          1%
Theis             31      617,530        258         8.32         417         21%
Ziguinchor        27      403,240         68         2.52         170         10%
Total            320    4,636,107       1,520        4.75         328         23%
Source: Etude sur lafiscalite des collectivites locales. 1999. ACDIIDakar.



53
Annex 4 a
Determination of Criteria for Establishing Annual Appropriations to Rural Communities (CRs)
Introduction
During the World Bank's pre-appraisal mission in March 1999, it was decided to provide an annual
appropriation to CRs receiving program support. The Government suggested the following criteria:
* absorption capacity of the CR,
* poverty level,
* organization of the CR, and
* population.
While these criteria indeed are appropriate, they can not be realistically collected at program launch.
Following an analysis of data currently in the government's possession, it was decided that, during the
initial phase of the program, decisions would be based on objective criteria on which data are available.
The criteria to be used to determine the annual expenditure for each CR are:
* the population of the CR, and
 the Human Development Index (HDI).
These two criteria do in fact take the size of the CR and the level of poverty into account. Additional
criteria, including population density, may subsequently be added.
Determination of Selected Criteria
Population of the CR:
This is the number of people in the CR. The data source used to calculate the initial appropriations for
pilot CRs is annexed to this document.
Human Development Index:
The index for Senegal applied by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in its 1998
National Human Development Report for Senegal is defined as follows:
Human Development Index  Minimum        Maximum         Senegal
Life expectancy           25 years      85 years       49.9 years
Adult literacy             0%           100%            32.1%
Enrollment ratio          0%            100%           31%
Real GDP per capita        $100         $6154          $1596



54
The various indicators are computed using the following formula:
Index =  Actual xi value - minimum xi value
Maximum xi value - minimum xi value
*  Life expectancy index   A: (49.9 - 25) / (85 - 25) = 0.415
*  Educational attainment index  B: [2 x (31.1 / 100) + 31 / 100]/3  0.317
*  GDP per capita index    C: (1596 - 100) / (6154 - 100) = 0.247
* and finally:
* Human Development Index = Y (A + B + C) l 3 = 0.979 / 3 + 0.326.
The regional HDIs from the 1998 report may be found in Table I below:
Table 1
Region                      HIDI
Kolda                       0.213
Tambacounda                 0.222
Diourbel                    0.262
Louga                       0.277
Fatick                      0.301
Thies                       0.301
Saint-Louis                 0.307
Kaolack                     0.315
Ziguinchor                  0.3 85
Dakar                       0.438
Use of data to determine appropriations
The amount of annual assistance per capita is computed based on the number of inhabitants in a CR, and
knowing the HDI makes it possible to vary such assistance on the basis of the poverty level.
The figures for NRIP are as follows:
* estimated assistance per capita (approximately US$4.80): CFAF 3,000, and
*  variation in assistance of +/- 20 percent, based on the HDI.
For example, the countries listed below received the following amount of assistance per capita annually:
*  Brazil:   US$9.00,
* Mexico: US$6.00-10.00, and
*  Guinea:  US$ 2.00.
Senegal thus received more aid than Guinea, but less than the amount provided to the Latin
American countries.
On average, there are approximately 14,500 inhabitants in Senegal's CRs. This implies that the average
expenditure would be 14,500 x US$4.80 = approximately US$ 70,000 for each CR (the figure found in
the Project cost tables).



55
The average HDI in Senegal is 0.291. Varying aid by +/- 20 percent on the basis of the HDI yields the
following coefficients
Table 2
HDI          Coefficient
0.213            1.2
0.291             1
-0.438        -     0.8
The coefficients applied to compute the CRs for the various regions are shown in Table 3 below.
7  7  70 0 Table 3       =
Region             Coefficient
Kolda                 1.174
Tambacounda           1.159
Diourbel              1.090
Louga                 1.064
Fatick                1.022
Thies                 1.022
Saint-Louis           1.012
Kaolack               0.998
Ziguinchor            0.878
Dakar                 0.786
Finally, expenditure per capita by region is shown in Table 4:
Table 4
Region             Coefficient
Kolda                 3,520
Tambacounda           3,480
Diourbel              3,270
Louga                 3,190
Fatick                3,070
Thies                 3,070
Saint-Louis           3,040
Kaolack               2,990
Ziguinchor            2,630
Dakar                 2,360



56
Number of CRs in Senegal by Region
50
45
40
35
25
2 0
1 5
5
0
Dakar       Diourbel      Fatick      Kaolark       Kolda        Louga      Saint-Louis  Tambacound    Thies       Ziguinchor
a
Number of CRs based on population
50
40
0
z
20
1000  2500  50o0  7500  10000 12500 15000 17500 2D000 22500 25000 27500 30000 32500 35000 37500 40000  1E+0  2E+0  2E.0
5     5      5
Maximum number of inhabftants



57
Regional Human Development Index (HDI)
0.400                      .                          ...;v-. . -....-.-- . .-                               -  _ _. ..... ~.__......_ . .. ...  
0.350          _
0.300                   ... ....
0.250
0.100
0.050
KOLDA   TAMBACOU DIOURBEL   LOUGA    FATICK          THIES     SAINT-   KAOLACK ZIGUINCHO   DAKAR
NDA                                                 LOUIS                  R
Region



58
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Project Costs by Investment/Recurrent Costs by Year in US$ million
2000   |  2001      2002   i  2003  i TOTAL
Project Costs
Investment Costs         5.9       7.2       11.7      14.2      39.0
Recurrent Costs          0.5       0.8        1.1       1.5       3.9
Total Project Costs          6.4       8.0      12.8      15.7       42.9
Total Financing by Year    2000       2001   |  2002      2003       Total
(US$m)
IDA                       4.6       5.2        8.4      10.3       28.5
IFAD                      0.9        1.5       2.3       2.8        7.5
Beneficiaries             0.1       0.4        0.9       1.1        2.5
Government                0.7       0.9        1.3       1.5        4.4
Total Project Financing   6.4       8.0       12.8      15.7       42.9
Allocation of IDA Funds in US$m:
Civil Works                  5.0
Goods                        1.5
Consultants                  3.8
Training                     4.0
Matching Grants              7.8
Incremental Operating Costs  2.3
Unallocated                  2.8
PPF                          1.3
Total IDA                   28.5



59
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PROCUREMENT
1.    General. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was carried out in July 1994,
which findings remain valid for this program. In general, Senegal's procurement laws and regulations do
not conflict with IDA Guidelines. No special exceptions, perrnits, or licenses need to be specified in the
Credit documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Senegal's procurement practices
allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. IDA-financed
Works and Goods or contracts financed by other donors eventually administered by IDA will be procured
in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA credits (January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Domestic Preference would apply to the
procurement of goods under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with the
provisions of Appendix 2 of the Guidelines. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be advertised
in L3N Development Business (UNDB) after negotiations and updated annually. National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) advertised locally in at least two local newspapers of wide circulation would be carried
out in accordance with Senegal's procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA provided that:
(i) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder
qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents and not be applied arbitrarily; (iii) no preference
margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible firns are not precluded from participation;
(v) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with predetermined and transparent
methods; (vi) bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons for rejecting any non-responsive bid;
and (vii) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents should be submitted to
IDA and found acceptable. IDA-financed contracts for Consultants Services will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The standard Request for
Proposals, as developed by the Bank, will be used for appointment of consulting firms. Simplified
contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e., those not exceeding six months, carried out by
firms or individual consultants. The GOS was briefed during appraisal and will receive any additional
clarification during negotiations about the features of the new Consultants Guidelines, in particular with
regard to advertisement and bid opening. The program elements by disbursement category, their
estimated costs and procurement methods for the first two years are summarized in Table A below.
Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are summarized
in Tables Al and B below.



60
Table A: Project costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US $ millions equivalent including taxes, duties and contingencies)
Disbursement Category                              Procurement Method                Total Cost
(including
Contingencies)
ICB      NCB       Other       NBF
1. Civil Works
1. 1. Community roads (sub-projects)        -        9.2                   -            9.2
(5.6)                              (5.6)
2.  Goods
2.1. Vehicles                              1.0       0.2        -          -             1.2
(0.5)    (0.07)                              (0.6)
2.2. Equipment and materials               1.3       0.2       0.1         -             1.5
(0.8)     (0.1)    (0.07)                    (1.0)
3.  Services
3.1. Consultants                                               6.1         -            6.0
(4.2)                   (4.2)
3.2. Training                                                  6.3         -             6.3
(4.4)                   (4.4)
4.  Miscellaneous
4.1. Incremented Operating Costs                              (23.9 7                    3.9
(2.7)                   (2.7)
4.2. Matching Funds (1) (microprojects)                        13.3                     13.3
(8.7)                   (8.7)
4.3 PPF refinancing                         -         -        1.3         -             1.3
(1.3)                    (1.3)
Total costs                                2.3       9.6       31.0       0.0           42.9
Total costs financed by IDA (2)           (1.3)     (5.8)     (21.4)      (0.0)        (28.5)
Note:
NBF: Not Bank-financed (There are no parallel financing and no reserved procurement)
ICB: International Competitive bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
Other: include consulting services and local shopping
Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
(I) Matching Funds: to match civil works contracts and services for local communities-based projects.
(2) IFAD financing is done on pari-passu basis and would entirely follow Bank Procurement Procedures.
2.     Civil Works (subprojects) contracts financed by IDA  will cover the rehabilitation and
maintenance of community roads. It is anticipated to have no large contracts exceeding US$500,000.
However, in this event it would be subject to ICB procedures. Therefore, all civil works contracts, costing
less than US$500,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$9.2 million would be procured
through NCB in accordance with national procedures. To facilitate project implementation, those
procedures will be summarized in the Implementation Manual, and must be found acceptable to IDA



61
during appraisal. For contracts procured under NCB procedures, open competition will be used subject to
post-qualification - verification of the technical and financial qualification of the contractor having
submitted the lowest evaluated bid. Qualification criteria and contractors classification will be made
known to all bidders. No bidder will be precluded from bidding, and all responsive bids will be evaluated.
Before final contract award, only the qualification of the lowest evaluated bidder will be reviewed. In the
event this bidder does not meet qualification criteria, the second evaluated bidder would be considered.
3.    Contracts for small works (for example wells, schools or maternity posts) to support
community-based development estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of
US$13.3 million will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from qualified domestic contractors invited to bid by way of adjustments either on
unit prices or on the total price. This procedure was agreed with the GOS and is described in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) to be approved by IDA as a condition of credit effectiveness. The PCU, in
cooperation with APCR and DCL, will launch a pre-qualification for regional annual programs. Field
operators recruited by the CRs will assist local artisans to prepare their expressions of interest for
submission. Pre-qualification will be widely publicized every twelve months in the local press, and the
scope and location of works to be completed during the next 12 months, as well as qualification criteria,
will be made known to all candidates in the advertisement. Invitation to bid shall be addressed toall pre-
qualified contractors having expressed an interest for the geographical zone considered at time of pre-
qualification. Invitation to bid shall include -- as shown in the PIM -- a bill of quantity, reference unit
prices established by an engineer or an architect, a detailed description of the works, including location of
works and basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement, relevant
drawings, where applicable, and a model for submission of bid. The award would be made to the
contractor with the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided the contractor demonstrates, in
the case he entered into other contracts since the pre-qualification, he still meet the qualification criteria
to execute the contract successfully. For small works below $5,000, the CRs will handle the selection
process by selecting at least three pre-qualified contractors, listed in the pre-registry.
4.    The Local Investment Fund microprojects (LIT) (totaling US$13.3 million) will use a
matching-grant mechanism for transferring resources to rural communities (CommunautesRurales - CR)
which will be used for the construction of microprojects, for example schools, health or maternity posts,
wells, latrines, culverts costing normally between $10,000 and $20,000 per contract. The procedures for
the matching grant will follow procurement methods described above in paragraph 3. The program will
assist eligible communities in the form of grants payable in tranches as described in the PIM under
contractual arrangements between the community and the PCU. Under this mechanism, PCU will
evaluate the organizational capacity of the beneficiaries, and will ensure that they use the services of
NGOs or engineers to supervise and certify the works.
5.    Contracts for Goods. Equipment, materials, vehicles, motorcycles, computers, and furniture will
be grouped to the extent possible into bid packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent. Those exceeding
US$100,000 will be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB), using Bank
standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods (published in January 1995 revised in October
1996). Contracts for office equipment, and materials locally available which cost less than US$100,000
equivalent but greater than US$30,000, equivalent up to an aggregate amount of US$0.4 million will be
procured through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Small quantities of goods such as office supplies,
consumable materials and spare parts, which are normally available off-the-shelf at competitive prices
and which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$30,000, will be procured through prudent local
shopping, based on price quotation obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the



62
aggregate amount does not exceed US$0.2 million over the four first years of the Project. As the case
may be, such goods may also be procured from UN agencies (UJNIPAC or IAPSO) provided each
contract does not exceed $100,000.
6.     Consultant Services. Consulting services financed by IDA  would be for: (i) contract
management services; (ii) studies, architectural design, civil work supervision, preparation of bidding
documents, accounting systems, financial management supports, financial and technical audits; and
(iii) consultancies on technical matters and training -- skills gap analysis, skills development; and training
of staff and local communities. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$8.7 million, would be hired in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997,
revised in September 1997, and January 1999). It would be addressed through competition among
qualified short-listed firms in which the selection would be based on Qualityand Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and cost evaluation by
weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. To obtain expressions of interest, the PCU will include
a list of expected consulting assignments in the General Procurement Notice. In addition, large
consultants contracts above US$200,000 will be advertised in lUN Development Business. To establish a
roster of consultants for carrying out studies and construction supervision, the PCU would publicize
procurement notices in the local press to get expression of interest from consultants. Based on criteria
described in the PIM, the PCU will maintain and update a roster of consultants which they will use to
establish short-lists, or select firms with the required qualifications. The following other methods would
also apply. For audits (financial and technical audits) and other services of a standard nature, the Least
Cost Selection (LCS) would be the most appropriate method -- the firm with the lowest price being
selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum qualifying score. Consultants services for
small studies and construction supervision (estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract and up to
an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million would be based on consultants' qualifications, i.e., based on the
consultants' experience and competence relevant to the assignment. Services for seminars and small
studies, which can be delivered by individuals and do not need teamwork or back-up supports, would be
selected through comparison of qualifications, CVs, among individual consultants expressing interest in
the assignment or approached directly. Single Source Selection (SSS) will be exceptionally used for the
selection of simple contracts under US$5,000, for local community support services, such as technical
assistance and training, provided the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed the equivalent
of US$100,000 over the Project life. Consultants will also be pre-registered by the PCU, in cooperation
with the DCL and APCR, in order to provide guidance to the CRs.
7.     Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of
national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are locally available at
competitive costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for technical assistance and training.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded from
consideration.



63
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent including contingencies)
Consaltant Servies                     TSelection M                           T
Expenditure Category   QCBS   Q     SF B   LCS   C           Other   NBF       Cost
A. Firms
General                   3.0                        -          -                 3.0
Audits & standard nature   -                     0.3                              0.3
Simple small for training  0.5                                 0.1                0.6
and technical advisory
services (below $5,000)                           _
Small studies and          -       -             0.5   0.5      -                 1.0
supervision of civil works
(below ($50,000)
B. Individuals             -      1.0                          2.8                3.8
Total       3.5     1.0            0.8   0.5    2.9       -        8.7
Note:
QCBS  = Quality and Cost Based Selection
QBS   = Quality Based Selection
SFB    =Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   = Least-Cost Selection
CQ    = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other  = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices,
and Single Sourcing.
NBF   = Not Bank-fmnanced.
8.    IDA Reviews. Prior Bank review will be required for all goods and works contract value at more
than US$100,000. Prior Bank review will also be required for consultant services contracts valued at
more than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. For Contracts with consulting firms
valued at more than $50,000 but below $100,000, the results of the technical evaluation together with the
technical scores will be notified to IDA. Contracting of civil works will follow NCB procedures.
Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply to about one in three
contracts. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB will be reviewed and agreed upon with IDA.
Bank's staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the Borrower.
Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the review of budgets, short-lists, selection
procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract awards, and negotiated contracts. Prior
IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated
to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior
IDA review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of their value, to single
source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value above the above-mentioned prior review thresholds. For all consultant contracts
subject to prior review (estimated above US$100,000), opening the financial envelopes will not take
place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation. Documents related to
procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the Borrower forex-post review by
auditors and by IDA supervision missions for the duration of the Project. For training abroad and in-
country, the program - containing names of candidates, costs estimates, content of courses, periods of
training and selection of training institutions - will be reviewed by IDA annually.



64
9.     Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any
material extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would increase
aggregate cost by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower should specify the reasons thereof
and seek IDA's prior no-objection for the proposed modification.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure  Contract Value            Procurement Methods        Contracts Subject to Prior IDA
Category     (Threshold)                                          Review
above US$500,000          N/A                        N/A
above US$50,000                   X                  Prior review. Aggregate amount:
US$1,900,000
below US$50,000                    X_          _
2.  ! o: d   _ _ _ ! _ _ _ _ _ I _          :_                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _. } '
above US$100,000          X                          Prior review. Aggregate amount:
US$1,700,000
below US$100,000                  X       -
above US$30,000
below US$30,000                           Shopping
or IAPSO
or UNIPAC
All tenns of reference or sole source contracts are subject to IDA prior review
Audit        N/A                       Least Cost Selection       Prior review. Aggregate amount:
US$300,000
Firms        Above US$100,000          Quality and Cost Based     Prior review + Review of
Selection (QCBS)           Technical Evaluation Report
before opening financial proposal.
Aggregate amount: US$2,500,000
Below US$50,000           Consultants' Qualifications    Aggregate amount:
.(CQ)                      US$300,000
Individuals   Above US$50,000          Section V of Consultants   Prior review. Aggregate ainount:
Guidelines                 US$1,000,000
Below US$50,000           Section V of Consultants
Guidelines
Below US$5,000            Single Source Selection    Prior review. Aggregate amount:
US$100,000
'The value share of the contracts subject to prior review with respect to total project cost is lower than 80% which
is usually expected for most operations, because of a large number of small contracts spread geographically in
remote areas to be generated under this project.



65
10.   Capacity Assessment, and Proposed  Management Arrangements. National Bidding
Procedures for public sector procurement in Senegal are in the process of being revised with the
assistance of the Bank. A revised procurement code is expected to be approved soon, which will
introduce simplified procedures and training of staff. Procurement under NIRP will be handled at the
Central level by three executing Agencies: The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in charge of components
3b and 4 (Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of the program) to be created, the current Department
of Rural Engineering under the Ministry of Agriculture (institutional support) in charge of component 3c,
and the current Department of Local Communities (DCL) under the Ministry of Interior in charge of
component I (Institutional Support to Decentralization). At the local level, procurement under the LIF
and under the community roads component will be handled by concerned CRs.
11.   The PCU has not been established yet as the Project Coordinator and key staff (Financial
Director and a Technical Director) were under recruitment at time of presentation to board. Given the
limited number of contracts involved in the implementation of components3b and 4, there is no need for
a procurement unit or permanent procurement specialist position within the PCU. However, an evaluation
of the capacity of the new PCU in the area of procurement will be carried out once the unit is established.
Basically, special attention needs to be paid to the recruitment of qualified staff with previous experience
in Bank-financed operations, and to the funding of ad-hoc short-term consultant services, as required to
assist in the area of procurement. It has been determined that neither the Department of Local
Communities nor any of the CRs have the required capacity to handle the numerous contracts that fall
under their responsibility. CRs will be required to retain technical assistance for the management and
supervision of civil works subprojects. A Procurement Unit will be established within DCL, which would
be composed of one unit head with past public procurement experience, one or two procurement
assistants, one secretary and driver/messenger. To ensure sustainability of this unit, the staff will be
composed of civil servants selected among qualified personnel of DCL or other government entities.
Adequate training on Bank procurement procedures will be financed under the credit for the head of the
procurement unit and his assistant(s). Funding will be also provided under the credit to hire a national
expert with the required skills on Bank Procurement procedures and supervision of consultants. This
expert will be hired under a two-year Technical Assistant (TA) contract to provide support for the
Procurement Unit with the following responsibilities: (i) assist in setting up an efficient Procurement unit
and train its staff on-the-job, while preparing technical specifications and bidding documents for start-up
activities; (ii) establish a sound procurement planning and coordination and monitoring system within the
DCL; and (iii) help DCL develop a strategy for the development of institutional capacity atthe local level
in the area of procurement procedures and contract management. The GOS has agreed to set up and staff
the Procurement Unit within DCL before Credit effectiveness.
12.   Technical audits and Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed. Technical
audit reports, in form and substance acceptable to IDA, on the implementation ofmicro and subprojects -
including quality of execution and adequacy of procurement - would be furnished three months before
each annual review. One every twelve months, a supervision mission will include special arrangements
for procurement supervision for post-review/audits.
13.   Assurances were provided at negotiations that, during annual reviews, an assessment of the
effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance will be carried out as they relate to the program's
procurement experience. During negotiations, the GOS submitted a draft procurement plan for the first
program year and provided assurances that standard bidding documents to be used under NCB
procedures for civil works and goods will be submitted for IDA's approval. During negotiations, an
agreement was reached on the proper monitoring of procurement. The GOS gave assurance to (a) use



66
IDA's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB and the Standard Bid Evaluation reports; (b) apply the
procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in the above documents; and (c) review the
procurement plan and procurement arrangements each year at the annual review with IDA and other
donors. During implementation, all bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and draft contracts
transmitted to IDA for review will contain an updated copy of the procurement plan. Procurement
information will be collected and recorded as follows:
* prompt recording of contract award information by the Borrower; and
* annual reports to IDA by the Borrower indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts
and the total program, including best estimates of allowances for contingencies; (ii) revised timing of
estimated procurement actions, including experience with completion time and completion costs for
individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
14.   The GOS gave assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary measures to ensure that
procurement phases will not exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement phases                           Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents               4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders                    4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                                 2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts                                   2
Payments                                                 3
Disbursement
15. The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C below. The IDA credit will be disbursed
over a period of four years (from 2000 to 2004), with a closing date of December 31, 2005. For contracts
below the prior review threshold, disbursements will be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs)
certified by the head and the Administrative and Finance Manager of the PCU. Supporting documentation
will be retained by the executing agencies and will be available for review as requested by IDA
supervision missions and program auditors. The accountant of the PCU and the Administrative and
Financial Manager will provide technical assistance and monitoring to the Department of Local
Communities (implementing agency) and to the Regional Coordination Units.



67
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
~xpeud         Category    - -  -Amount fi    yDA           I Financing Percentage
..._________________     _   tin   US$million, net of t   d  d-is :
1. Civil works for subprojects            5.1                           80%
2. Goods                                  1.4                            80%
3. Consultants                            3.8                            75%
4. Training                               4.0                            75%
5. Operating Costs                        2.4                           75%*
6. PPF                                    1.3
7. Matching fund                          7.8                            80%
7. Unallocated (a)                        2.7                           N.A.
TOTAL                                    28.5
(a) Includes investment activities to be allocated in accordance with financing plans agreed between government
and donors.
* operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account ofprogram implementation.
Special Account
15.   Upon credit effectiveness and submission of a withdrawal request by the Borrower, an amount of
CFAF 500 million (representing 50% of the authorized ceiling) will be deposited in the Special Account.
Once payments through the Credit have totaled SDR 2.8 million, the full amount of the Special Account
can be claimed. As soon as the financial management system can provide, with reasonable assurance,
accurate and timely information on the status ofthe Project once the action plan is complete, PMR-based
disbursement method will be used. But in the interim period, replenishments ofthe Special Account will
be made on the basis of monthly applications supported by full documentation of SOEs as required and
verified by the Project Coordination Unit.
Counterparts Funds, Program Account
16.   The government will open in a financial institution, a Project Account to cover its counterpart
contribution to the Project, to be used exclusively to meet expenditures under the program. The Borrower
will deposit into the Project Account an initial amount of CFAF 85 million. The establishment of this
account will be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. The initial amount was communicated by the
Borrower prior to negotiations.
Financial Management
17.   Since the financial management system has to be created, an assessment was carried out during
the pre-appraisal mission to essentially define the characteristics of the system and an action plan to
ensure that the financial management capacity required by OP 10.02 and the Loan Administration Change
Initiative Implementation Handbook will be in place by the date of effectiveness.
18.   The financial management of the Project will be under the responsibility of the Coordination Unit
(PCU) and the Regional Coordination Units (RCU). Separate and consolidated accounting records will be
maintained at the central level by designated financial staff. In addition to maintaining the accounts at the
central level, the PCU will be responsible for: (i) consolidation of the program accounts and the
production of the annual finanicial statements; (ii) monitoring the special account which is managed by
the DDI; (iii) coordinating budget preparation and monitoring for all components; and (iv) ensuring that



68
the audits are done and that the audit reports are sent to the authorities concerned, IDA and other co-
financiers. RCUs will be responsible for maintaining and reporting to the PCU on the accounts at the
regional level. The Rural Communities will also keep the accounts for the activities carried out locally.
As a condition of Credit Effectiveness, a sound financial management system including an Accounting
Manual will be installed at the PCU's, RCUs' and rural communities' levels. Coordination mechanisms
between these three levels will be developed in the Accounting Manual.
PMR-Based Disbursements
19.   As mentioned above, the financial management system is not in place yet and has to be
established. Under these circumstances, it is not recommended to introduce PMR-based disbursements
immediately after effectiveness. The system needs to be installed and its performance assessed first
before it can be decided that it can support PMR-based disbursements. In the meantime, LACI
requirements will be taken into account in the design of the future financial management system. IDA
would carry out, at the end of the first year of implementation, a comprehensive assessment of the
Program's financial management to determine its adequacy and readiness for a new enhanced
disbursement method - to be discussed with IDA at that time. A second assessment would be carried out
at the end of 18 months after project effectiveness.
Audit
20.   The consolidated project accounts will be audited annually. As soon as possible after the end of
the financial year, but no longer than six months after its completion, the Government will present audit
reports of the special account and the Project accounts with a separate opinion on the use of the Special
Account and the SOEs. In addition to the audit of the Project accounts, the rural communities' accounts
will be audited annually on a sampling basis to ensure thatthe Project funds are properly used. The audit
reports will furnish as part of the management letter an opinion on the use of, and procurement methods
for IDA-financed expenditures. The Government's performance in auditing projects accounts has
generally been acceptable, and the Government is in full compliance on other projects, and the quality of
the audits has also been generally satisfactory. The contracting of auditors, on multi-years contract,
acceptable to IDA is a condition of Credit Effectiveness.



69
Annex 7
Project Processing budget and Schedule
Project Schedule                    Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the Project (months)        18                       22
First Bank mission (identification)            12/01/1997              12/15/1997
Appraisal mission departure                   07/01/1999               09/13/1999
Negotiations                                   10/01/1999               11/08/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 08/01/2000                / /2000
Prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture and an interministerial steering committee
Preparation assistance: PPF (US$1.3 million) and Japanese PHRD (US$400,000)
Bank staff who worked on the Project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Susanne Holste                      Team Leader
Suzanne Piriou-Sall                 Team Leader
Bernard Abeille                      Sr. Procurement Specialist
Siaka Bakayoko                      Financial Management Specialist
Mohammed Bekhechi                    Senior Counsel
Wolfgang Chadab                     Disbursement Officer
Omar Serigne Fye                    Environmental Specialist
Jane Hopkins                        Sr. Agricultural Economist
Christina Mahnberg-Calvo            Sr. Transport Economist
Marie-Jeanne Ndiaye                 Team Assistant
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye            Financial Management Specialist
Ismael Ouedraogo                    Agricultural Economist
Leopold Sarr                        Agricultural Services Specialist
Bachir Souhlal                      Principal Natural Resources Management Specialist
Hang N. Sundstrom                   Team Assistant
Joseph Toledano                     Senior Agricultural Services Specialist
Amadou Tidiane Toure                Procurement Specialist
Lucie Tran                          Operations Analyst
Kishor Uprety                        Senior Counsel



70
Annex 8
Financial Management
1.    NRIP will establish a financial management system, acceptable to IDA, which will provide NRIP
and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures. A detailed action
plan for the establishment of such a system was discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. The
financial management systems will include accounting, financial reporting and auditing elements.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT
2.    An assessment of the financial management capacities was done during project pre-appraisal.
Given the institutional arrangements which involve setting up national and regional coordinating units,
the needed financial management capacities have to be put in place. For this reason, the current situation
does not satisfy with the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. During pre-appraisal,
agreements were reached upon about financial management arrangements as described hereafter.
Capacities will be built within the Project in view to ensure that the Loan Administration Change
Initiative's (LACI) criteria would be met before the end of an 18-month period starting from date of
effectiveness. In the interim period, LACI requirements will be taken into account in the design of the
future financial management system.
ACCOUNTING
3.    The NRIP will operate on a decentralized basis with four components (a) Support for
Decentralized Rural Development; (b) Local Investment Fund; (c) Community Roads; and (d) Program
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. The three operational components will be managed by project
implementation units in separate ministries - for instance, the Ministry of Agriculture will manage the
Local Investment Fund and the Community Roads Program through the PCU, and the Ministry of Interior
and Decentralization will manage the Support for Decentralized Rural Development. IDA has had some
experience with decentralized projects in Senegal in the rural development sector. The experience is that,
overall, the accounting is adequate for the Projects' and IDA's purposes; however, there is a need to have
close monitoring to maintain controls and to build financial capacity. This experience is taken into
consideration in the Project.
4.    The financial management of the Project will be under the responsibility of the National
Coordination Unit (PCU) and the Regional Coordination Units (RCU). Separate and consolidated
accounting records will be maintained at the central and regional levels by designated financial staff. In
addition to maintaining the accounts at the central level, the PCU will be responsible for: (i) the
consolidation of the program accounts and the production of the annual financial statements;
(ii) monitoring of the special account which is managed by the DDI; (iii) coordinating budget preparation
and monitoring for all components; and (iv) ensuring that the audits are done and that the audit reports are
sent to the authorities concerned, IDA and other cofinanciers. RCUs will be responsible for maintaining
and reporting to the PCU on the accounts at the regional level. The Rural Communities will also keep the
accounts for the activities carried out locally. As a condition of Credit Effectiveness, a sound financial
management system including an Accounting Manual will be installed at the PCU's, RCUs' and rural
communities' levels. Coordination mechanisms between these three levels will be developed in the
Accounting Manual.



71
5.     A qualified accounting firm  will be appointed to develop detailed procedures for project
accounting of each component, including accounting and internal control systems, with such accounting
standards or agreed format that (i) reliably record and report all financial transactions ofthe Project; and
(ii) provide sufficient financial informnation for managing and monitoring project activities. The objective
of these procedures is to ensure consistent financial reporting and to provide reasonable assurance that
accounts are properly recorded and resources safeguarded. The underlying systems take into account the
specific needs and circumstances for each component including accounting procedures at the regional and
CR level. The accounting firm will also provide its technical support to provide appropriate computer
software for financial management and accounting, including production of reports on a quarterly basis.
Terms of reference, which are under preparation, have to be approved by IDA. They specify that the
accounting software should be compatible with IDA's requirements, in particular, be LACI-compatible.
The selected proposal will be reviewed and operational support provided during start-up by the Bank. At
the end of the 18-month period, an assessment will be carried out to determine whether the new systems
and procedures meet the eligibility criteria established under the LACI.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
6.     The CRs (the lowest-level accounting unit) will provide quarterly activity reports to the regional
coordinating units with quarterly financial reports of the activity of the LIF.
7.     The RCU will submit quarterly financial reports with supporting documentation to the PCU.
8.    The PCU will consolidate the financial reports of the operational components.
9.     The annual financial statements of the Project will be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in Senegal. The financial statements will include at least a statement of
sources and uses of funds, a statement of reconciliation of the special account, a balance sheet and
required notes to the financial statements.
10.   The financial statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the
fiscal year.
AUDITING
11.   The consolidated financial statements of the Project will be audited for each year by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA.
Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
the audited period. The selection of the auditor is a condition of effectiveness.
The auditor will provide an opinion on:
*  the Project financial statements;
* statements of expenditure (SOE); and
* Special Account (SA)
A management report on Internal Controls will outline any recommendations for improving internal
accounting controls identified as a result of the financial statement audit.



72
12.   In addition to the audit of the Project's financial statements, SOE and SA, the rural communities'
accounts related to the Local Investment Fund component will be audited annually on a sampling basis to
ensure that the Project funds are properly used.
STAFFING
13.   An Administrative and Financial Manager will be appointed in the PCU in accordance with
detailed terms of reference that have been developed.
14.   An accountant will be appointed in the PCU to keep the detailed accounting records
15.   An accountant will be appointed in each regional coordination unit to keep the detailed
accounting records at the regional level and report to the PCU.
16.   Training will provided to the CRs to build their financial management capacities. Each CR will
have a community secretary/accountant.



73
Annex 9
Organizational Chart
The Prime Minister assures the
presidency of the PSC which has   Project Steering Committee
equal representation from                    (PSC)
govemement and from civil society                                                       l
_______________________                     National
Project Coordination Unit 1                                level
(PCU)
Direction des Collectivites                   Direction du Genie
Locales (DCL -                             Rural (DGR -
Component 1)                              Component 3c)
Regional
Regional Organization (RO)                                  level
Local Government
(LG)
Local
Local Council                                        level
|_Community Forum



7 4
Annexe 10
Documents in Project File*
- PRAAP Manuel de l'Animateur (August 1992)
- Plan d'Action de la Decentralisation (Septembre 1998)
- Evaluation Sociale (Octobre 1998)
-  Prise de Decision et Fonctionnement des Structures (October 1998)
- Decentralisation et Communication (October 1998)
-  Formation et Gestion des Organisations (October 1998)
- Planification Locale (October 1998)
- Reforrne Fiscale (October 1998)
- Reforme Juridique et Fiscale (October 1998)
- Corrdlation avec d'Autres Programmes (October 1998)
- Fonds d'Investissement Rural (October 1998)
- Rapport sur le Diagnostic Institutionnel Participatif de Ila Communaute Rurale de Koussanar
(November 1998)
- Guide d'Animation Assorti d'un Choix Participatif des Infrastructures de Base (January 1999)
- Conseil National de Developpement des Collectivites Locales (February 1999)
- Selection des Communautes Rurales de la Phase I du PNIR (February 1999)
- Selection des Communautes Rurales de la Phase I du PNIR - Annexes (February 1999)
- Evaluation des Capacites des Institutions Impliqudes dans la Mise en Oeuvre du PNIR (April 1999)
- Evaluation des Expdriences Developpees (May 1999)
- Manuel de Procedures du Programme (July 1999)
- Annexes au Manuel de Procedures du Programme (July 1999)
- Proposition sur la Gestion Financiere du PNIR (August 1999)
- Analyse du Systeme Financier au Senegal (August 1999)
- Etude sur les Options d'Amenagement des Pistes et Routes Rurales Communautaires (August 1999)
- Etude sur les Options d'Amenagement des Pistes et Routes Rurales Communautaires relative aux cinq
CR Pilotes du Senegal (August 1999)
- Annexe Technique sur la Composante des Pistes Rurales (September 1999)
- Programme Prioritaire de Pistes de Production
- Components Project Cost Summary
- Lettre de Politique de Developpement Rural Decentralise
- Cadre Strategique de Transport Rural
- Etudes sur la Fiscalite Locale. CIDA et Ministere des finances (1999)
* Including electronic files



75
Annex 11
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Senegal
Operations Portfolio
Closed Projects: 71                                                    Supervision Rating                     Original Amount in US$ Millions                   Difference Between
Board Date Active Projects                                      Development       Implementation         IBRD          IDA       Cancel.    Undisb.             Orig.         Frm Rev'd
FY                                                            Objectives         Progress
1989    P002327    SMALL RURAL OPS. 11                            S                  S                   0         16.53           0        2.66            2.45               0.6
1991    P002342    TRANSPORT SEC. SECAL                           S                  S                   0         72.24         4.2        1.99           -3.78             -4.01
1993    P002357    HUMAN RES DEV'T 11                             S                  S                   0         39.93           0        5.77            2.41                0
1995    P035615    COMMNUTRITION                                  S                  S                   0         16.12           0        3.13            5.23              5.06
1995    P002376    PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG                             S                  S                   0         10.98           0        4.73            4.37              2.01
1995    P002346    WATER SECTOR                                  HS                  S                   0         87.24           0       58.49           63.17             57.38
1996    P002373    HIGHEREDUCI                                    U                  S                   0         25.34           0       14.08           -1.36                0
1996    P035621    PILOT FEMALE LITERAC                          HS                  HS                  0         11.94           0        5.35           -2.03                 0
1997    P041567    ENDEMICDISEASES                                S                  U                   0         14.82           0       13.58            7.11                 0
1997    P046648    REGIONAL POWER                                 S                  S                   0         10.56           0        6.31             5.2                 0
1997    P046768    SUST,PART.ENGY.MGMT.                           S                  S                   0          5.23           0        4.33            2.32                 0
1997    P044383    URBAN TRANS REF TA                             S                  S                   0          6.72           0        3.99            2.97                 0
1998    P051610    AG.EXPORT PROMOTION                            S                  S                   0           8.1           0        7.02            2.07             -0.23
1998    P051357    ENERGYSEC.ADJ.                                 S                  S                   0        101,53           0       76.15           73.95                 0
1998    P002369    INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.                           S                  S                   0         49.39           0       40.85           15.91                 0
1998    P002365    URB DEVT & DECEN PRO                           S                  S                   0         75.94           0       65.63           21.93                 0
1999    P002367    AGR.SRCVES&PROD.ORGS                           S                  S                   0         27.72           0       27.72            6.86                 0
1999    P002366    SECOND TRANSPORT SECTOR                        S                  S                   0         88.22           0       88.22               1                 0
2000    P067498    Y2K NATIONAL ACTION PLAN                      N/A                NIA                   0        10.29           0       10.29               0                 0
SUPPORT PROJECT
a/. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b/. HS: Highly Satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; N/A: Not applicable.



76
Annex 12
Senegal at a glance                                                               12/20/99
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Senegal    Africa   income       Development diamondc
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                        9.0       628      3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Afas methotd, US$)                     514       480       520
GNP (Alas method, USS bilelons)                        4.6       304      1.844
Average annual growvt, 1992-98
Population (%)                                         2.7        2.6       1.7     Gr
Laborforce (%)                                         2.7        2.6       1.9     GNP er\                          Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-0)                                capa                          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povey ne)       33
Urban population (% of to   populaon)                   45        33        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        52        51        63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 11w bfrths)                68        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of childr,m under 5)              22          .    .                    Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopuldion)                    51        47         74
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     67        42        32
Gross primary enrolent (% oschoos - e population)       62        77       108             - Senegal
Male                                                  68        84       113                   Low-income group
Fomale                                                54        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            2.0      4.6        4.4       4.7
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                 14.5     12.5       18.7      19.6
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            42.0     24.1       34.0      333                      Trade
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                      7.1      5.1       13.2      14.9
Gross national savkns/GDP                     4.5      0-5       12.4      15.3
Current account baIloelGOP                  -12.2    -12.1       -7.4      -6.2      Domestic 
Interest payments/GOP                         11       2.7        2.0       1.9      Sa n                        Investment
Total debt/GDP                               31.7     87.6       83,8      71,0     Savigs
Totaldebtserviceexports                       6.5     26.8       14.0       9,7
Present value of debVGWP                        .                52.1      43,1
Present value of debt/exports                   .        .      140.8     120,8
Indebtedness
197747  19t8-98      1997      1998   1999-03
(average annu/ gr,owrth)
GOP                                  2.6      2.4      5.0        5.7       6.0             -Senega/
GNP per capita                      -0.6      0.0      2.4        39        33                    Low-income group
Exports of gcods and services        1.3      2.0       1.6       5.2       6.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                          30
Agnculture                                   27.1     21.7       19.1      17.4    201
Industry                                     14.4     17.9       23.0      24.1     1
Manufacturing                                 ..    12.8       15.3       15.8
Services                                     58.5     60.5       57.8      58.5                       95   9s   97 9
Pnivate consumption                          78.3     79.3       79.4      76.3    -20
General govemment oonsumption                14.6     15.6       10.6      10.3 3G1    - GDP
Imports of goods and services                49.5     31.4       39.5      38.0
(average annual grmwfl)                   197747  1988-98       1997      1998      Gr9w8hrates oexports arclmports%
Agriculture                                   0.8       1.0      -2.2      -1.7    15
Industry                                      3.8      3.4        6.6       8.8    to
Manufacturing                               4.3       1.9       3.6       7.6
Services                                      2.9      2.7        7.3       7.0
Private consumption                           2.5      2.5        5.0       2.8                        9        57    9
General govemment consumption                 3.6     -1.8        0.1       3.2
Gross domestic investment                     0.9      2.6        6.8       7.8    '0
Importsofgoodsandservices                     1.1      0.0        3.0       8.0                  Exports          imports
Gross national product                        2.3      2.7        5.1       6.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the county (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



77
Senegal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1977      1987       1997      1998      Innation I%)
(% change)                                                                             40
Consumer prices                                11 3      -4 1        11.8      1 1     30
Implicit GDP deflator                           8 2      2.0        2.3       2 2      20
Government finance                                                                     10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     a
Current revenue                                17.7      18.6      174        17.3    .10      93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                            .      0.7        4.7   .  5.8               -_GDP detlator  - CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                           .      -2.1      -1.6       -2.6
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998 
(US$ millions)                                                                         Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            667       671        932       965     1,600
Groundnut                                               70         50        54      1400
Fish                                                    66         30        25      1.2000
Manufactures                                           157        254       265      ' 00       *         _     _
Total imports (cif)                                    1.086      1.352     1,376       600    - -
Food                                                   208        329       31 1       r                   -
409
Fuel and energy                                        177        191       179       200
Capital goods                                          166        184       211         0  92   93   94 95   96 9.    '
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      111         97       104
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..       80         94        94               fE.ports       *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..      139        104       111
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio I%)
(US$ ,nlhlonS)
Exports of goods and services                  8551    1,132      1,488     1,538          _               U _.
Imports of goods and services                 18047    1        3474  1     4777  1844 
Resource balance                               -191     -342       -289      -307
Net income                                      -54     -198        -75       -36
Net current transfers                             4    -16           42    53    6 I I '-_
Current account balance                        -242     -556       -322      -289
Financing items (net)                          229       582        455       312     tO
Changes in net reserves                          13      -26       -133       -23      '2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)           36       23        415       426
Conversion rate (DEC. locaf/I.S$)             245.7    300.5      583.7     590.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998                           b - -       -
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           628    4,028       3,671     3,324
IBRD                                          27       126         15         9                     F 70Y930
IDA                                           62      507       1,276     1,448
Total debt service                              59       325        227       163           E 840   _
IBRO                                           2        18         10         8
IDA                                            1         3         16        18                                      B: 1.448
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              104       271       271        241
Official creditors                           237       707        452       409
Private creditors                             42       -25        -21       -27
Foreign direct investment                     40       -51         92         7            D 692  '4%
Portfolio equity                               0      -198        -75       -36                            C 235
World Bank program
Commitments                                   20        97         39       233      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 20        96        104       108      B - IDA   D Other m.ltilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           1        10         16        16      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     20        B6         89        93
Interest payments                              2        11         10        10
Net transfers                                 18        74         78        82
Development Economics                                                                                                    12/20/99



78
Annex 13
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
LETTER OF DECENTRALIZED RURAL
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
October 1999



79
Letter of Decentralized Rural Development Policy
CONTENTS
I    INTRODUCTION
II    ADJUSTMENT POLICIES AND DIMENSIONS OF POVERTY
A.   ADJUSTMENT POLICIES
B.   DIMENSIONS OF POVERTY
C.   GOVERNMENT RESPONSE
m1   PRESENT STRATEGIES
A.   MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND SECTORAL
B.   INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK AND DECENTRALIZATION
C.   NEW STRATEGIC ORIENTATIONS IN THE SECTORS
1.   Agriculture and livestock
2.   Environmental reforms
3.   Economic infrastructure
4.   Social sectors
IV   PRINCIPAL SHORTCOMINGS IN STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION
v    LOOKING AHEAD TO THE YEAR 2015
VI   IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY, MODALITIES, AND TOOLS
A.   THRUSTS OF THE STRATEGY
B.   REFORMS GEARED TO LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
1.    Good governance
2.   Reform of localfinances
3.   National capacity building
4.   Local capacity building
C.   PROJECTS TARGETING DECENTRALIZATION
D.   FRAMEWORK FOR MONITORING AND HARMONIZATION OF APPROACHES TO
DECENTRALIZED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
1.   The National Councilfor Local Communities Development
2.   Steering of decentralized rural development processes



80
I.        INTRODUCTION
Poverty in Senegal is an overwhelmingly rural phenomenon. The human development indicators in the
rural areas are extremely disturbing, since they provide clear evidence of the very limited access to social
services. As a result, poverty reduction, in particular in the rural areas, has become the Government's
priority policy objective.
Access to basic and vocational education, functional literacy, and essential health services (preventive
and basic health care) is a necessary condition to ensure that the rural populations contribute fully to the
country's socioeconomic development and benefit equitably from that development. Furthermore, the
availability of basic economic infrastructure is a prerequisite for productive investment in the rural areas
and for integrating the rural communities into the market economy. Thus, over and above the
Government's growth-oriented macroeconomic reforms, it is clear that improvements in rural incomes
and a more equitable distribution of the fruits of that expected growth will require a policy framework
that is heavily geared toward providing basic services and infrastructure that are accessible and of good
quality.
The purpose of decentralized rural development is to help improve the quality of life of the rural dwellers
and to expand their access to essential basic services, while empowering the communities to take
responsibility for local affairs and establishing a framework in which the different stakeholders -
population, local authorities, Government and its deconcentrated services, NGOs, private sector, and
development partners - are able to make the best possible use of their respective competencies and
qualifications.
Following a description of the dimensions of poverty, the present Letter of Decentralized Rural
Development Policy will focus on the development strategies currently in progress, the deficiencies
encountered during implementation of those strategies, particularly in the rural areas, determination of the
ultimate goals to be achieved by the 2015 horizon, and lastly, a breakdown of the strategy's thrusts and
modalities of implementation.
H.    ADJUSTMENT POLICIES AND DIMENSIONS OF POVERTY
A.    ADJUSTMENT POLICIES
Assisted by the Bretton Woods institutions and its other development partners, Senegal introduced its first
adjustment policies in the early eighties. The purpose of those polices was to reduce expansion of
domestic demand by reducing the country's fiscal deficit, and subsequently to implement policies
stimulating supply, with a view to significantly increasing production and creating the necessary
conditions for the expansion of private investment.
In the rural sector in particular, the reforms undertaken within the framework of the New Agricultural
Policy (NPA) focused basically on: (i) empowerment of rural producers; (ii) redefinition of the tasks of
the supervisory agencies; (iii) application of an incentive-based pricing policy; (iv) implementation of an
input management and distribution policy; (v) continued efforts to achieve a food self-sufficiency ratio of
80 percent by the year 2000; and lastly (vi) setting up of the National Agricultural Credit Fund.



81
A positive result of these reforms was the achievement in the mid-eighties of an average annual growth
rate of 4.3 percent and a net improvement in the public finances. However, it was not possible to maintain
this progress because of the economy's structural weaknesses. These were due, on the one hand, to the
fact that agricultural production, based on a few cash crops, was inadequately diversified and extremely
sensitive to climate changes, and, on the other, to the instability of world raw materials prices. The high
cost of inputs and a very rigid pricing policy aggravated the situation, and the phasing out of government
agencies was not conducted as planned so as to enable the private sector to fully discharge its role. The
result was an average growth rate of 1.5 percent between 1989 and 1993, lower than the population
growth rate and reflected in an average drop of 1.2 percent in per capita income.
B.    DIMENSIONS OF POVERTY
Following the 50 percent devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 and the accompanying reforms,
Senegal's economy has come back to a path of sustainable growth. Nevertheless, this growth has had
negligible effects in terms of rolling back poverty, which remains an extremely serious problem,
particularly in the rural areas. According to the Senegalese Integrated Household Survey (ESAM) for the
year 1994, 30 percent of households were living below the poverty threshold and 75 percent of poor
households were found in the rural areas.
The continuing spread of poverty in the rural areas is a community-level problem and seems to be a
heavy trend with structural manifestations. There are many evidences of rural poverty and deprivation:
low income levels, dwindling incidence of on-farm consumption, heightened difficulties of access to
credit, and less extensive social services coverage. The victims of rural poverty are first and foremost the
children, followed by households whose head is unemployed, actors in the informal sector, women, and
young persons seeking employment. In parallel, low incomes and threats to food security are still
contributing to the existence of practices harmful to the appropriate and sustainable management of
natural resources.
The overall number of poor households is unevenly distributed between urban and rural areas. In 1994,
the incidence of absolute poverty was 16.4 percent in the cities and 44 percent in the countryside. By way
of example, only 26 percent of rural households have access to drinking water, against 83 percent in
urban areas, and close to 40 percent of rural dwellers live too far (over 5 km) from a basic health care
center. Despite substantial investment, electrification ratios are very low. Only 25 percent of households
nationwide have electricity: in the cities, 50 percent are electrified, and in the rural areas, 5 percent.
However, over half of Senegal's regions (six out of ten) have electrification ratios above the national
average: Ziguinchor (38 percent), Tambacounda (40 percent), Kaolack (40 percent), Louga (40 percent),
Fatick (40 percent), and Kolda (53 percent). An analysis by departement also points up a high incidence
of poverty, extreme cases being Kedougou (80 percent) and Mbacke (65 percent).
In addition to the inability of current policies to halt the spread of ever-increasing poverty in the rural
areas, a number of natural phenomena are contributing to this continuing trend. For instance, there is
heavy pressure on natural resources, fomented by population growth and the long years of drought.
Degradation of the natural resources has, for example, caused people to abandon their lands in northern
Senegal for those of the south (in this case because of desertification), and has led to a decline in the
yields of the groundnut basin. The marked decline in available areas per capita has contributed to a
drastic falling-off of productive potential and is consequently a major factor in the impoverishment of
producers.



82
C.    GOVERNMENT RESPONSE
To address the high incidence of impoverishment in the rural areas, the Government has designed a
poverty reduction program. The decentralized rural development strategy falls within this context.
Because of the shortage of financial resources and the poor quality of existing human resources, and
given the urgent need to improve the living conditions of the rural population, decentralized rural
development appears to be one of the most appropriate strategies for boosting local development and
combating poverty at the same time. The objective is to enable the rural dwellers to have access, as
citizens, to essential social services (health, education, potable water, etc.) and, as economic agents, to the
market.
III. PRESENT STRATEGIES
At the core of Senegal's development strategy are two objectives: private sector development and poverty
reduction. This strategy falls within the context of sustainable human development. On the one hand, it
emphasizes the stability of the macroeconomic framework and the newly defined role of the State; on the
other hand, it aims specifically to strengthen the production capacities of the poorest population groups
while preserving the environment and the quality of life. Sustainable development is a multidimensional
objective requiring the implementation of global policies. It is achievable if the development indicators
remain favorable and if growth prospects point to possibilities for coming generations that are at least
equal to those of today's populations.
Present strategies focus os the creation of a quality macroeconomic framework, a decentralization policy
designed to support local development, and sectoral policies aimed at supporting the bases of economic
growth.
A.  THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND SECTORAL OPTIONS
The global adjustment introduced with the January 1994 devaluation aims to restore the competitiveness
of Senegal's economy by providing it with the bases for sustainable growth. This is hardly a new goal,
but until that time, the efforts made to accomplish it had taken the form of a number of different internal
measures giving rise to various programs, such as the Economic and Financial Recovery Plan (PREF)
(1980-1984), the Medium- and Long-Term Adjustment Progran (PAMLT) (1985-1992), and the
emergency plan (August 1993). By promoting private investment, more effective public spending, and
improved natural resource management, the Government has pursued global objectives of sustained
growth, food security, and higher incomes in both rural and urban areas.
The devaluation of the CFA franc was supported, from 1994 onwards, by a number of internal adjustment
measures intended to promote budgetary and monetary stability and by structural reforms designed to
liberalize the economy, reduce the size of the public sector, encourage private sector development, and
sustain development of the social sector. Those reforms led to a marked upswing in the economy, with
annual GDP growth rising from 2 percent in 1994 to 4.8 percent in 1995, 5.8 percent in 1996, and 5.2
percent in 1997. The inflation rate fell from 32 percent in 1994 to 8 percent in 1995, 2.8 percent in 1996,
and 1.8 percent in 1997. The central govermment's budget deficit was reduced from 6 percent in 1994 to
1.5 percent in 1997, and the external deficit dropped from 10 percent to 6 percent over the same period.
The agricultural reform measures undertaken within the PASA framework focused essentially on:
(i) government divestiture, privatization, and restructuring of public enterprises responsible for



83
agricultural development; (ii) empowerment of the farmers, with the transfer to them of certain functions
formerly devolving on the public agencies; (iii) elimination of subsidies on inputs and rural credit; and
(iv) with respect to agricultural products, liberalization of prices, markets, and trade. Later, in 1998, the
Strategic Orientation Document (DOS) was prepared, including several directives designed to consolidate
the bases of agricultural sector growth and trigger arechanneling of investment toward significant growth
of agricultural production and hence the emergence of new lines of production. Within this context, work
is to continue on the water management programs, through the Management Plan for the Development of
the Left Bank (PDRG), and on the promotion of small and medium-sized rural enterprises. However, the
impact of these measures has been weak. The agricultural sector posted an annual average growth of 1.3
per cent over the period 1990-1997.
With a view to achieving sustainable development in the livestock sector, the respective Letter of
Sectoral Development Policy identified certain strategic orientations for improving competitiveness of the
different branches of livestock production, developing private initiative and enhancing the producer
professionalism, promoting the quality of the services provided by the State, and improving natural
resource management. The sector's growth pattern has been very uneven: the growth rate of its value
added fell from 3.9 percent in 1993 to 0.6 percent in 1996 but rose back up to 3.3 percent in 1998.
To support local development initiatives, reforms have also been introduced in the following areas: the
environment, focusing on improved natural resource management, economic infrastructure, and the
social sectors, focusing on consolidating the bases of growth in the rural sector in particular.
B.    INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK AND DECENTRALIZATION
The economic reforms of the nineties were accompanied by an expansion and clarification of the
legislative and regulatory framework for decentralization. The institutional evolution of decentralization
goes back to the colonial era, with the four urban municipalities that were created at the end of the last
century (Goree, Saint-Louis, Rufisque, and Dakar). Upon independence in 1960, the status of full-fledged
municipality (commune de plein exercice) was granted to 29 urban centers. In 1966, Law 66-64 of June
30, 1966 (Code de l'Administration Communale), was enacted, consolidating in a single piece of
legislation all the laws governing municipal institutions.
It was not until 1972, with the enactment of laws 72-02 and 72-25, that decentralization was extended to
the rural areas, although on a restricted basis. Despite the creation of the Rural Communities
(Communautis Rurales - CRs) it was still the sub-prefect who was in charge of preparing and
implementing the budget, as the official responsible for authorizing the allocations. The sub-prefect
retained this power until the enactment in 1990 of law 90-37, which entrusted financial management of
the CRs to their presidents. However, the local development responsibilities of the CRs were not clearly
defined.
The last stage in this process consisted of the adoption in 1996 of new decentralization laws,
accompanied by several implementing decrees, introducing three types of local territorial authority - the
region, the municipality, and the rural community - all of which have juridical personality, are financially
autonomous, and are freely managed by elected Councils. The laws of 1996 strengthened the
responsibilities of the local authorities and organized the country's territory into 10 regions, 60
municipalities (communes), 43 district municipalities (communes d'arrondissement), and 320 CRs. The
country's political and administrative organization evolved on two different planes:



84
(i)    deepening of the decentralization process through expansion of the responsibilities of the Local
Authorities (Collectivit6s Locales), replacing control of expediency (contr6led'opportunitW) by a close
review of compliance with the law (contr6le de lcgalite) by the central government representative
(governor for the regions, prefect for the municipalities, sub-prefects for the CRs), and replacing a priori
supervision by a posteriori supervision over a larger number of acts (except in the case of CL budgets);
(ii)   regionalization, through the creation of regions as intermediate structures between the central
government and the basic local authorities, designed to serve as a framework for regional development
programming and to coordinate the actions of the basic CLs and those of the State at the regional level.
Thus, the general function assigned to the CLs (regions, municipalities, and CRs) was to design, plan,
and implement regional, municipal, or rural development activities in the economic, educational, social,
health, cultural and scientific areas, while their specific function was to handle responsibilities
transferred by the central government to the local authorities in nine areas: environment and national
resource management, health, population and social action, youth, sports and leisure, culture, education,
planning, land use, urban development and housing, and, lastly, management of State-owned lands. Each
new transfer of responsibility would be covered by new legislation.
The laws of 1996 also provided that the region, together with the municipalities and the CRs, should
establish a Regional Development Agency (ARD), entrusted with the general function of providing
assistance to the CLs in all areas of development-related activity.
To ensure an effective transition, the legislation also provided that the transfer of responsibilities should
take place concurrently with the transfer of the resources required for the exercise of those
responsibilities. The Decentralization Endowment Fund (FDD) was set up to cover the operating costs
associated with the transfer of responsibilities.
At the financial level, the tools available to the CLs are the Local Communities Infrastructure and
Equipment Fund (FECL) and the Decentralization Endowment Fund (FDD). Other resources, such as
those provided through decentralized cooperation, are also available to them, and may be used for
technical assistance, institutional support, and local development projects.
However, while the local authorities may approach donors to request financing within the framework of
implementation of their development plans, they are finding it difficult to mobilize the required
counterpart funds out of their own meager resources.
The central government decided to use the FDD to finance the first two years of operating expenses
resulting from the transfer of responsibilities to the regions, municipalities, and rural communities, in an
aggregate amount of CFAF 4.9 billion. In the case of the FECL, CFAF 2.5 billion out of its overall CFAF
3.5 billion is allocated directly to the local authorities in the form of matching funds, with CFAF 1 billion
going to the Municipal Development Agency (ADM) for the account of the local authorities.
Over and above these resources, financial support is provided through decentralized cooperation under
twinning arrangements or through certain international decentralized cooperation institutions such as the
Federation of Canadian Municipalities, The United Towns Organization (UTO), United Towns, etc.



85
C.    NEW STRATEGIC ORIENTATIONS IN THE SECTORS
The establishment and development of the legal and regulatory framework for decentralization reflects a
more general change in the Government's approach to development issues. A set of new principles, such
as local community empowerment and participation, government disengagement, transparency of
decision-making mechanisms, and accountability of service agencies and providers vis-a-vis the
population, are guiding the conception and implementation of development actions in the sectors.
1.    Agriculture and livestock
The PASA has already emphasized farmer empowerment and the transfer of certain production and
marketing functions. The Letter of Livestock Sector Policy also advocated developing private initiative
and strengthening producer professionalism.
In the area of institutional reform, the Government plans to reorganize its farmer support services. This
program will focus, on the one hand, on (i) restructuring of the central, regional, and local services of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, with a view to bringing the center of decision closer to the
implementation level; (ii) reorganization of agricultural and agro-food research; and, on the other hand,
on (iii) establishment of a new agricultural and rural council within the framework of a partnership
between farmer organizations and the private sector. This will mean that State involvement in the
agricultural sector will consist of providing only those public service activities that are exclusively the
government's responsibility.
For the extension effort to be effective and serve as a successful support for the new institutional
framework, a new approach will be needed in the form of a tight partnership among all stakeholders in
the agricultural sector (central government, CLs, producer organizations, private sector). At the level of
practical application, a joint agricultural and rural agency will provide the producers with needed support,
while also facilitating more effective management of natural resources and acting as intermediary
between the rural producers and the suppliers of specific services. Through its participation in this
agency, the State will guarantee a minimum of agricultural and rural advisory assistance for the weakest
producers who cannot afford to pay private providers for this service.
In addition, a capacity building program will be set up for the farmer organizations. This program, to be
managed at all levels almost entirely by the beneficiaries, will consist of such activities as targeted
training at the village level, support for the promotion and operation of local and regional consultation
forums for producer organizations, and strengthening of the federal level of coordination of those
organizations.
The question of land tenure represents an urgent problem for any rural development strategy. The basic
issue is to find ways of securing land ownership rights, while guaranteeing a minimum of equity of access
and preserving a very flexible system of land management. Consultations on land tenure reform between
the State and the rural communities are now in progress.
2.    Environmental reforms
Within the framework of the recently adopted National Environmental Action Plan (PNAE), and in
partnership with the local authorities, in particular the regions, to which responsibilities for environmental
issues and natural resource management have been transferred, the State has conducted: (i) an analysis of



86
key economic activities and an assessment of their environmental impact; (ii) a synthesis of regional
environmental action plans prepared and validated by the Regional Councils on an eco-geographic basis;
(iii) a synthesis of sectoral intervention strategies, designed to enhance existing knowledge of the
different fields of expression of natural resource and environmental management policies within the
framework of the responsibilities transferred to the local authorities. In addition, a nationalbiodiversity
strategy has been adopted, and the forestry code has been revised to take into account the ongoing
process of decentralization.
Within the framework of the ongoing revision of the environmental code, the Government will continue
to provide support to the sector, working in partnership with the local authorities to establish:
-     an appropriate institutional framework in the area of natural resource management, based on the
law transferring responsibilities to the local authorities;
-     a soil fertility restoration program based on rationalized use of the rural space, designed to restrict
extensive practices that are heavy consumers of natural resources and to make stakeholders in the
farming community accountable for natural resource management. This strategy falls within the spirit of
the National Environmental Action Plan (PNAE), the National Desertification Control Action Plan
(PAN/LCD) and the National Land Use Plan (PNAT), which represent global frameworks of reference.
3.    Economic infrastructure
The State has already introduced or commissioned a number of actions in the area of rural and
agricultural water supply, rural transportation, electricity, and rural telephone service.
In the area of rural water supply, a policy for participatory infrastructure management and maintenance
has been introduced, with a view to supplying water to the rural population at the World Health
Organization (WHO) sanctioned rate of 35 liters per person per day plus an adequate volume for their
herds. The motorized tubewell management system will be reorganized to ensure that the structures
operate at full flow. Reforms geared to greater beneficiary involvement are also under way to consolidate
the system for repairing and rehabilitating broken-down wells. Popular participation in waterworks
management will be maintained.
With respect to agricultural water supply, in addition to the major structures at Diama and Manantali,
completed in 1988, dams have been built at Affiniam, Guidel, and Anambe, as well as several salt-barrier
dykes. The work of reforming the operation and maintenance of motorized rural wells has gone ahead,
the water plan for the first section of the Ferlo has been implemented, and the study of the other valleys,
forming part of the fossil valleys revitalization program, has been finalized.
In the area of rural transportation, a process of consultation among all parties concerned is under way
with a view to implementing the institutional and regulatory reforms that will pave the way for
formulation of a global program of support for the sustainable development of rural transportation and
securing of the requisite financing. The Orientation Framework [Cadre d'Orientation] currently in
process of approval proposes classifying the network according to clearly defined levels of responsibility.
Based on that definition, the rural communities and their population would be responsible for
maintenance of the network classified as communautaire.



87
4.    Social sectors
In the education and training sector, the Ten-year Education and Training Development Plan (PDEF
1999-2008), representing the framework for education policy implementation, is now being finalized.
This Plan, with its heavy emphasis on education in the rural areas, is to be launched in October 1999.
The overall objectives of this program are: (i) expansion of access and correction of disparities; (ii better-
quality teachers and relevance of instruction; (iii) promotion of consistent, modem, and decentralized
management of the education system.
Priority will be accorded to elementary, technical, and vocational training, and particular emphasis will be
placed on the enrollment of girls.
The program aims to achieve an overall enrollment rate of 70 percent by 2000, 80 percent by 2003, and
universal enrollment by 2008. The strategy will be based on strengthening of access to intermediate and
secondary education, well-balanced school map development, and improved school quality and
management.
In the area of health, the new guidelines of the health and social action policy will be implemented
through the National Health and Social Development Plan (PNDS), which covers the period 1998-2007,
and whose strategic guidelines are translated into actions within the framework of a five-year Integrated
Health and Social Action Development Plan (PDIS 1998-2002).
The Letter of Health Sector Policy, representing the framework for implementation of the PNDS,
comprises the following major reforms: (i) reorganization and strengthening of capacities of the Ministry
of Health; (ii) hospital reform; (iii) pharmaceutical reform; (iv) health financing; (v) reform of the
information and management system; and (vi) development of partnership arrangements. A partnership
guide, addressing the various aspects of a contractual relationship between the Ministry of Health and the
NGOs, has been prepared. In the area of public expenditure, the State has undertaken to make regular
increases in the health sector appropriation in the national budget (which stood at 8.25 percent in 1998
and is set to rise to 9 percent in 2002). Public participation in health costs rose from CFAF 300 million in
1980 to over CFAF 4 billion in 1996.
Work will continue in such areas as building and equipping of health posts and centers, efforts to reduce
the rate of malnutrition, which should show a 50 percent decline by 2015, eradication of endemic
diseases, particularly those targeted by the Expanded Program of Immunizations (EPI), and improved
coverage in terms of pregnancy checkups and attended deliveries.
It is pointed out that deployment of the sector strategy is running into some difficulties in terms of
harmonization with the decentralization policy transferring responsibility to the rural communities for
construction, management, maintenance, and equipping of health posts, maternity centers.
IV.   PRINCIPAL SHORTCOMINGS IN STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION
Despite the reforms implemented following the 1994 devaluation and the progress noted above, many
shortcomings still remain, such as:
(a)   inadequate income reflected in greater hardships for an increasing number of the country's
inhabitants;



88
(b)    a persistent low level of participation by the rural population and civil society in the choices,
conception, implementation, and management of local development programs in rural areas. This results
in a supply of inadequate and poor-quality services to meet the people's priority needs, and inadequate
use of the comparative advantages of the different actors in the public, private, and associative sectors;
(c)    shortcomings in implementation of the decentralization policies, specifically in: (i) application of
the laws and regulations relative to decentralization; (ii) provision of information and training to elected
officials and the deconcentrated govermnent services concerning the legislative and regulatory provisions
related to decentralization, quite often leading to situations of mismanagement or conflict;
(iii) cumbersome and complicated procedures for tax collection and community development budget
management, reflected in poor tax performance and delayed program implementation;
(d)    serious deficiencies in the support for local development, with: (i) isolated sectoral policies and
fragmented programs and projects -- the regions need to work toward achieving consistency,
coordination, and complementarity among the interventions of the social and productive sectors crucial to
the wellbeing of the rural population; (ii) inadequate deconcentration at the levels of decision-making,
technical capacity, management, and operating resources; and (iii) provision of insufficient human
resources to meet the needs of the local authorities or to ensure operation of the existing social
infrastructure, particularly in the areas of education and health;
(e)    a land-tenure system governed by the law on national 'lands [loisur le domaine nationa[J, which
is not conducive to investment security or sustainable natural resource management;
(f)    associative and private entities with generally weak technical and management capacities;
(g)    very limited financial resources for local development, with: (i) a weak tax base and poor tax
performance at the local level; (ii) contributions from the population limited by low income levels;
(iii) private transfers and NGO contributions to small and poorly targeted projects, favoring certain zones,
villages, or social groups; and (iv) modest and irregular transfers from the State, chiefly as a result of
pressures on the national budget;
(h)    inconsistencies of design and implementation of certain sectoral approaches that do not fit into
and/or are in contradiction to the Government's strategic frameworks. For instance, the education and
health programs do not always incorporate the responsibilities transferred to the CLs under the 1996
reforms.
V.   LOOKING AHEAD TO THE YEAR 2015
This vision into the future is based on the "SENEGAL 2015" long-range study, of which the principal
strategic thrusts are as follows:
-      achieve a sustainable increase in the country's overall productivity;
-      engender a dynamic of responsibility and solidarity;
-      strengthen aptitudes for development and expand social communication;
-      control urban growth and stabilize the rural economy;
-      consolidate the nation's autonomy and take advantage of areas set aside for international co-
development.
In light of the above-mentioned shortcomings in strategic implementation, the Government intends to
intensify its efforts to apply and deepen reforms. Its vision for the year 2015 encompasses the following
images:
1.    rural populations that are at the hub of the rural development process at the local level and are
both promoters and owners [maitres d'ouvrage] of that process, working through the local authorities and
operational associations within the framework of an effective partnership with the territorial
administration and the deconcentrated government services;



89
2.    populations which, through their elected councils and associative bodies at the grassroots level
have the capability to: (a) make choices and implement community development priorities in the areas of
socioeconomic infrastructure and essential social services; and (b) promote a local environment which,
particularly in terms of essential economic infrastructure, is favorable to private income-generating
initiatives;
3.    populations with effective access, as citizens, to the essential social services (health, education,
potable water, etc.) and basic infrastructure, and, as economic agents, to the market, resulting in improved
human development indicators and the opening up of all the country's local authorities;
4.    local authorities having an operational and decentralized mode of governance, in which the local
elected officials are allowed full exercise of their responsibilities, supported by the State and in harmony
with the sectoral strategies;
5.    technical services released from the delivery of services in favor of governance-related tasks
(missions regaliennes) such as formulation and monitoring of sectoral policies, enforcement of the
regulations, and putting in place of pivotal public investments.
In particular, the functions of the government's technical departments would refocus on:
orientation, analysis, and forecasting, a function that represents the basis for the definition of
agricultural development policies and programs;
-      monitoring, coordination, and evaluation of implementation of agricultural development actions
and policies by the various public and private operators;
-      issuing and enforcement of regulations; and
-      support, advice, and capacity building for the CLs.
6.     a territorial administration of which the principal responsibilities are to: (a) ensure compliance
with the law on the part of the local authorities and grassroots-level associative entities in their decisions,
mode of operation, and development program management; (b) provide support for those associative
bodies, particularly where compliance with the regulations is concerned, through the deconcentrated
technical services; (c) promote and facilitate dialogue among the various stakeholders in local
development; (d) support the regions by ensuring consistency among the planning and development tools,
actions, and programs at the national, regional, and local levels (harmonization of local development
plans with the regional land-use plans and the National Land-Use Plan);
7.     private bodies that contribute fully to the creation of wealth and are appointed under contract to
deliver services in connection with the setting up, maintenance, and management of social and economic
infrastructure;
8.     sustainable management of the natural resources on which production activities are based. Such
management would be predicated on the renewal or replication of the systems of production, specifically
through the provision of training and information to the stakeholders, appropriate land-use planning, and,
to prevent over-exploitation, action in the form of a substitution policy that will satisfactorily meet the
people's needs;
9.     a substantial increase in income and the achievement of food security, reflected in the meeting of
food needs. Policies related to food security should aim for consistency and represent a synthesis of the



90
strategies designed for each particular line of production. This policy will also be based on systemic
approaches geared to integration of agro-sylvopastoral activities.
VI. IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY, MODALITI:ES, AND TOOLS
The Government's strategy for achieving the objectives of the vision outlined above is based in part on
promotion of decentralized rural development as a synergy of all stakeholders and of all the sectoral
programs developed by the State. This strategy is based on principles of local empowerment,
transparency, and joint management of both implementation and maintenance of community investments.
A prerequisite is therefore to clarify the roles of the stakeholders in local development.
A.    THRUSTS OF THE STRATEGY
At the operational level, the strategy focuses on: (1) actions to make the populations and local
authorities the hub of the local development process; and (2) support for the processes of grassroots
development in the rural areas.
Actions to make the populations and the local authorities the hub of the development process
will include the following:
(i)    establishment of operational mechanisms for effective transfers of local development
responsibilities to the local authorities in accordance with the decentralization laws, and of recourse
mechanisms for use in the event of conflicts of interpretation of the regulations;
(ii)   strengthening of the technical and management capacities of the rural populations, the local
authorities, and their grassroots-level associative bodies, to enable them to better respond to priority
needs in terms of essential social and economic infrastructure;
(iii)  establishment, in the short term, of mechanisms for the direct transfer to the local authorities of
the financial resources necessary to their development, and, over the longer term, the setting up of
arrangements enabling them to mobilize those resources themselves;
(iv)   establishment of operational frameworks for consultation, decision-making, monitoring and
evaluation, with participation by all stakeholders in decentralized rural development, and guaranteeing
effective participation by vulnerable and marginalized groups;
(v)    putting in place of land management tools designed to ensure investment safety; and
(vi)   establishment of participatory arrangements to make local development management more
transparent.
To ensure greater availability and accessibility of essential basic services, the decentralized approach to
rural development must take account, in determining the needs of the populations, of disparities at the
different levels: village, rural community, region. To that end, decentralized rural development has to
address the problems of community participation in the processes of diagnosis, identification, and
implementation of priority programs, and contemplate different types of support actions, depending on
the degree ofpoverty of the rural community concerned.
Support for the process of grassroots rural development will be provided through:
(i)    continuation and deepening of institutional and regulatory reforms at the level of the general
economic environment, in order to allow the local authorities greater autonomy and to stimulate a higher,
sustainable, and equitable growth rate, an essential condition for the reduction of rural poverty;
(ii)   increased shares of public resources allocated to the social sectors, agriculture, and livestock;
(iii)  an appropriate tax framework allowing the local authorities to make a significant contribution to
local investment financing;



91
(iv)   strengthening and furnishing to the local authorities of human and technical resources that will
enable them to fully discharge their role as local service providers;
(v)   institutional reforms, policies, and programs in the social sectors of agriculture, livestock, and
natural resource management, designed to bring the services closer together and adapt them to the
demand of the rural population.
Implementation of the different thrusts of the strategy will hinge on three modalities, namely the
continuation of decentralization-related reforms, the execution of projects geared to decentralization and
local development, and, lastly, the setting up of a framework for consultation and harmonization within
the support system.
B.    CONTINUATION OF REFORMS GEARED TO LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
1.    Good governance
Good governance and democracy, in the sense of improving the general wellbeing of a country's
population, should be a constant concern of the authorities when introducing reforms related to
decentralization. This concern can be effective only within the framework of sound public affairs
management involving substantial popular participation, respect for the rules of transparency and equity,
and empowerment of the population, with satisfaction of the people's basic needs a top priority. As a
result of the user survey conducted to determine the quality of public services, the good governance
program now in process of finalization has already identified areas for improvement in government
operations and areas where capacity building is needed within the public administration.
2.    Reform of local finances
The reform of local finances is an essential stage in implementation of a decentralization policy. The
Government of Senegal has already undertaken a very comprehensive study of local taxation as a basis
for producing an exhaustive and complete report on the condition and operation of local financial and tax
situations, incorporating views from the population on the principal findings of the diagnostic survey, and
reforming taxation against the background of a thorough knowledge of Senegal's present situation
imparted by a large consensus. In addition, actions are under way for studying and improving the systems
for making transfers (FECL, FDD) to the CLs.
The following sustainable results are expected over the medium and long term:
-     a simplified, modernized, and more efficient local tax system that will create local sources of
profitable financing thanks to expansion of the tax base and lower rates for the principal taxes (buildings,
land, simplified business license [patente]), and a more productive levy on assets and local services;
-     local authorities endowed with greater autonomy and responsibility, resulting in better
governance, in particular in the area of local tax collection;
-     local choices in terms of infrastructure, facilities, and local public services that are more
appropriate to the true needs of the local populations, at the level of both operating expenses and
investment costs;
-     a renewal of relations between the State and the local authorities, with local revenues less
dependent on grants from the State and supported not only by a local commitment to financing local
budgetary choices, but also by a demonstrated commitment by the State to increase its financial
assistance, thereby offsetting the financial burden resulting from transfers of responsibility, and to
support local public investment;
-     greater transparency of financial management by the decentralized authorities.



92
The operational objectives of this study have essentially been achieved. The respective diagnostic study
has been performed and disseminated. Feasibility studies have been carried out on the following proposed
reforms: integrity of the tax base; replacement of rental value by market value; decentralization of the
taxation chain.
These studies have demonstrated the feasibility of restoring the integrity of the tax base in order to
recover a large portion of that base hitherto untaxed, and of improving property value assessment
methods. They also find in favor of decentralizing the tax chain. Lastly, they propose grooming the
portfolio of local taxes based on assets and local services and remodeling the financial assistance
provided by the State to the local authorities through clearer definition of its purposes and modalities.
Identification of tax sources in the rural environment poses a difficult problem, since the yield of most
local taxes is inadequate. There will be continued discussion of the method of taxation best suited to rural
areas.
These major components of reform have been examined by a small technical committee and submitted to
the chair of the Steering Committee for the study. The Government thus has at its disposal an analytical
tool (a diagnostic study), opinions and proposals from the areas concerned by local taxation (public
consultation), and proposals for reforming local taxation.
The Government is now finalizing the reform proposals and will submit them to Parliament as soon as
possible, in order to assure the local authorities of permanent sources of financing for their budgets and
thereby provide them with a more stable foundation on which to undertake their development activities.
3.    National capacity building
The national capacity building program is currently being finalized within the more general framework of
the good governance program. This program should contribute, among other things, to efficient and
transparent economic management. The different components of this program hinge on a deepening of
the democratic system and of local governance, improvement of the juridical and judicial system and of
the business climate, and capacity building for the public and private sectors.
Within the framework of its reorganization process, the Government will strengthen the agencies
implementing and supporting the decentralization policy.
A monitoring and evaluation unit is expected to be set up within the framework of the National Council
for the Development of Local Communities (CNDCL), having its own staff and the capacity to monitor
the application on the ground of institutional measures designed to solve problems arising during
implementation of the decentralization policy. The unit would have its own operating budget as well as
financial and logistic resources enabling it to carry out studies and audits of the local authorities. For
purposes of decentralization, this framework can be used by the responsible officials to obtain data on the
local authorities, and the report to be produced after each business year will help the authorities to decide
on any necessary corrections at the occasion of the next CNDCL meeting.
(a)    The Association of Presidents of Rural Councils (APCR)
The APCR has launched a tentative reorganization by taking on representatives of the regions and the
departements. More needs to be done, and the APCR should approach its reorganization in light of the



93
new context, ensuring at all levels the establishment of the relationships necessary to rapid top-down
circulation of information.
At the national level, the APCR will need to receive support similar to that provided by the regional and
local representatives, enabling it to achieve internal restructuring and serve as interface between the
government decision makers and the populations, thereby ensuring that the latters' interests are better
protected. An endowment of quality human resources will enable it to make specific proposals to the
central government concerning the adoption of institutional measures designed to ensure full and entire
empowerment for the population and elected local officials in the area of economic and social
development.
In this way the APCR will be able to cultivate deep-seated relationships in terms of decentralized
cooperation to the benefit of the local authorities.
(b)    The Directorate of Local Authorities (DCL)
The DCL is an agency with the technical capabilities to support the Ministry of the Interior and
Decentralization in implementing, monitoring, and evaluating the decentralization policy. Its tasks are to:
-      prepare institutional reforms and regulations for improving decentralization;
-      within the framework of training of the local population, support the elected officials and the
State representatives to the local authorities;
-      establish transfer funds in close collaboration with the Treasury Directorate for the purpose of
monitoring CL budgetary implementation;
-      ensure correct implementation of the endowment and infrastructure funds made available to the
local authorities by the State;
-      .support preparation and updating of local development plans;
-      solve problems regarding the territorial limits of the local authorities, territorial disputes, and acts
submitted for prior approval to the State representatives, and enforce the decentralization laws.
Based on the tasks described above, the DCL will need to have a local finance observatory that can
provide it with a comparative database for use by the Treasury Directorate, the Municipal Development
Agency, and all agencies likely to have contacts with the local authorities. The database can consist of
several modules: financial, legal, or documentary.
The DCL also has a role as supervisor and facilitator with the local authorities for establishing forums for
consultation at the local level, with a view to bringing together the different actors involved in local
development (groups, NGOs, the Agricultural Conservation and Stabilization Service (ASC), Women's
Advancement Groups (GPFs), etc.).
4.     Local capacity building
(a)    Training of elected local officials and village leaders
Within the framework of its decentralization policy, the State has been implementing a far-reaching
training program which in the long run will cover all the local authorities. This program, targeting local
elected officials, will be a practical one and locally-based. The training plan prepared has received
support from the partners, thanks to which several regions are starting to reap its benefits (Kolda,
Tanbacounda, Ziguinchor, Fatick). To ensure the program's relevance to local needs and the rapid
satisfaction of those needs, two phases have been defined:



94
1.    establishment of regional, multiplier-effect committees based on equal representation, which will
also provide training through specialized firms chosen by each region;
2.    addressing the different topics chosen by the actors in each region.
The training program will be the framework of reference for future donor intervention in this area. The
State, through the DCL and with APCR support, will promote a minimum standard of quality throughout
the training program and supervise its implementation.
(b)    Redefinition and refocusing of the deconcentrated services:
The strengthening of local and regional capacities will take place through the rapid establishment of new
organization charts for the different orders of local authorities and provision to the rural communities of
well-qualified community secretaries.
It will be necessary to downsize and redeploy the deconcentrated services before the capacity building
takes place. The deconcentrated services will then be able to provide better support for the CLs.
The conventions for use of the deconcentrated State services by the local authorities make sense only if
those services have adequate resources to implement their tasks. To that end, it is necessary to train the
managers of deconcentrated services, most of whom do not understand the legislation concerning
decentralization. In addition to the staff redeployment to be performed by the State, it will be necessary to
inculcate the "spirit of decentralization" into the State services in the regions. Those services will need to
support, inter alia, the efforts of the Regional Development Agency to take up the challenge of economic
and space planning, formulation of the CLs' development plans, and,preparation of the CLs' development
projects. It is therefore imperative to refocus and redefine their tasks.
The "Deconcentration Map" project is extremely important from this point of view. It clearly states the
principle of subsidiarity, whereby the responsibility for specific activities is entrusted to the authority
most suited to undertake it, with a view to maximizing the effectiveness and efficiency of public service
management.
C.    DECENTRALIZATION PROJECTS
As the second modality for executing its strategy, the Government will implement several programs
designed in support of the local authorities. Ongoing projects are:
-     the Poverty Control Program (PLP): work has started on this program with launching of the
Government's pilot project, the Kedougou FDL, and the Expanded Poverty Control Program (PELCP);
-     the Local Development Fund (FDL) project in Kedougou is co-financed by UNCDF and UNDP,
and is a pilot project experimenting with the participatory approach within a decentralized framework. It
is located in Kedougou department and in Missirah. It will be coordinated by the local development
support units (CLADs) at the departement and arrondissement levels, (and) has led to the preparation of
priority investment programs in the 13 rural communities in Kedougou departement and Kedougou
municipality;
-     the Expanded Poverty Control Program (PELCP) is taking place in Diourbel, Tambacounda,
Dakar, and Saint-Louis regions. The final plan is being completed in preparation for the Steering
Committee meeting scheduled for the first half of June 1999. Approval of this final plan will signify entry
into effect of the activities described therein;
-     the Urban Development and Decentralization Program (PAC), or Fourth Urban Project of the
World Bank and AFD, of which the objective is both to stimulate the recovery effort of the municipalities
and to support their effort of investment in production and the supply of priority infrastructure, facilities,



95
and services. The implementing agency of the PAC is a Municipal Development Agency (ADM), whose
general functions are consistent with the project's objective. For the achievement of that objective, urban
contracts [contrats de ville] link the ADM to the selected municipalities. To date, 13 urban contracts have
been signed with the following localities: Diourbel, Kaffrine, Louga, Joal-Fadiouth, Nguekhokh, Passy,
Gandiaye, Kaolack, Thies, Ziguinchor, Tambacounda, Saint-Louis, and Guediawaye;
-     the Decentralization and Local Development Support Program (PADDEL), designed to support
the State's reforns, particularly in the area of decentralization, to create and provide leadership for a
mechanism to train elected officials and civil servants, and to support local government and the
emergence of a local development policy in four regions (Thies, Kolda, Fatick, Ziguinchor). The project,
financed by the French Government, was launched in January 1998;
-     the GTZ's "Adviser to the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning" project, whose current
phase runs from October 1996 to September 2000, and which has introduced a regional planning support
component for two test regions, Fatick and Kaolack.
Projects pending implementation are:
-     the Local Development Support Program (PSIDEL), financed by the European Union within the
framework of the 8th EDF [Decennale de l'Education et de la Formation]. The principal objective of this
project, for which a 12 million euro financing agreement has been signed, is to contribute to the reduction
of rural poverty. One of its specific aims is to improve access to social services and collective facilities by
establishing a participatory process and implementing development-related actions;
the National Rural Infrastructure Program  (PNIR), now being finalized, which involves
participation by the principal stakeholders in rural development at the grassroots level and assistance
from the development partners. The objectives of the PNIR are geared to capacity building in the rural
communities, putting in place of a Local Investment Fund to finance basic infrastructure, and preparation
of a priority action program. Capacity building is also planned for the rural engineering services;
*     the study of local tax systems: this study, financed by the ACDI [Agence Canadienne de
Dliveloppement International], consists first of a diagnostic survey designed to obtain a qualitative and
quantitative review of the situation and operation of taxation and local finances in Senegal. Second, it will
approach the question of cleansing the local tax system of all obsolete taxes and levies and adapting it to
the new economic context by creating new sources of fiscal and para-fiscal revenue for the local
authorities, such as, for example, the telephone tax;
-     the joint UNDP/UNCDF program in support of decentralization in the rural areas (PADMIR),
which aims to support the decentralization process in the rural areas by putting in place a decentralized
financing tool and improving the local participatory planning practices;
-     the GTZ/KfW project in support of decentralizing Senegalo-German cooperation, targeting in
particular the rural communities ofFatick and Kaolack regions. Project activities will involve setting up a
Local Development Fund designed primarily to finance infrastructure works, and the provision of
advisory assistance in connection with local development (development and strengthening of institutional
bodies, financial management, training). This project, now being prepared, will include a four-year first
phase;
-     the project in support of local development and decentralization in Kolda and Tambacounda
regions, financed by AFD and overseen by the DCL.
In terms of approach, it is pointed out that several of the above programs fall within the area of
decentralized development. Most of them have a life of five years at the most.



96
D.    FRAMEWORK FOR MONITORING AND HARMONIZATION OF APPROACHES TO
DECENTRALIZED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
1.    The National Council for Development of Local Communities (CNDCL)
Given the large number of stakeholders and the wealth of experiments either in progress or planned for
the future, the Government has decided to favor a four-year experimental approach that will take
account of lessons learned and of the territoriality of the different interventions, in a continuing
effort to achieve harmonization and continuity. This effort, which consists of monitoring, evaluating,
and harmonizing the different experiments on the ground, will take place under the aegis of the CNDCL,
which will be provided with the necessary resources for the purpose.
This Council includes representatives of the central government and elected officials from the regions,
municipalities, and rural communities, and its principal purpose is to report on evolution of the local
authorities and to propose the necessary guidelines for their development. The consultative framework
must therefore be representative of the majority of the stakeholders, and will be provided with a
monitoring and evaluation system.
2.    Steering of decentralized rural development processes
The experimental and harmonization phase, which should help to settle a number of questions, will focus
in particular, but not exclusively, on:
(i)    Operations eligible for financing from the decentralized investment funds. The criteria for
defining and selecting public-interest and/or productive investments eligible for decentralized public
financing will be adopted during this transition phase.
(ii)    Access criteria and conditions for the award of funding giving preference to areas where there
is a Local Development Plan (PLD) to serve as the framework of reference for all financing
operations and future donor interventions. In its design and preparation, the plan must reflect the concerns
of the different actors within the CR. It will specify mechanisms for ensuring transparency of
participation by all of them, including the most vulnerable groups, in the investment identification and
selection processes.
(iii) Conditions for the award of funding giving preference to the furnishing of contributions, in
cash or in kind, by the local authority or the grassroots communities, and the existence of a mechanism
for financing recurrent and maintenance costs. Any subsidy granted will need to be tailored to the nature
and profitability of the investments. Moreover, the tax collection rate is a good indicator for the rural
community, while experience of community development and project implementation capacity project
could represent an asset for the grassroots organizations.
(iv)   Mechanisms and procedures for using local development funds, which need to be geared to
the solution of various problems, namely: domiciliation of the funds, separation between payments officer
and accountant, means of settling small and frequent expenses with ease, disbursement conditions,
relations with the Treasury, management audits, problems related to local capacities, modalities for
organizing project ownership [maitrise d 'ouvrage] and the support necessary to strengthen the capacities
for exercising that ownership, modalities for decentralized management, and lastly, remuneration of the
public services.



97
(v)    Modalities for organizing project ownership, which will take the form of flexible arrangements
favoring the promotion of local businesses and of monitoring provided by technical committees which
may, if necessary, call in special expertise. The modalities for supporting the project owners, the
distribution of responsibilities among private and public lenders, and the conditions of remuneration
should also be clearly defined during the experimental phase.
(vi)  Improvement of the consultation process, aimed at improving communication among the
different actors concerning the challenges and issues of the different programs to be implemented, so as
to encourage ownership by the beneficiaries and ensure consistency in the process of regional and
national planning. The links between those programs and the sectoral policies, and the composition and
functions of the local consultation forums, comprising representatives of the local authorities and
grassroots organizations, will need to be spelled out.
At the local level, steps will be taken to promote greater involvement and accountability on the part of
professional groups and associations.
At the regional level, the region constitutes the body responsible for ensuring cohesiveness of the
regional development process, specifically through the Regional Plan for Integrated Development (PRDI)
and the Regional Land-Use Plans (SRATs). The Regional Development Agency (ARD) is regarded as a
technical organ for planning and regional development, serving all the local authorities (region,
municipalities, rural communities), subject to their jurisdictional rights.
At the rural communities level, the community interest groups [groupements d'intir6t communautaire]
will be promoted. Actions capitalizing on experiments in intercommunity development will be favored, as
will measures to strengthen the synergy of development actions through better liaison with the
deconcentrated coordinating bodies (CLD, CDD, CRD).
(vii)  Inter-municipal linkages (intercommunautaire), making it possible to undertake actions of
broader scope and to avoid the problems linked to microplanning.
(viii)  Integration of actions at the different levels of local authority and in relation to the national
policies.






lBRD 30539
18'                                170                                I16~                                 15"                                 I14"                               113"                                12'SE                                                               GA
NATIONAL RURAL
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
~~~   ~~~~~ ~M A U R I T A N I APRJTNIOA
C" '>~~~~:r  ~~~~                                           'N,,~~~itD'INFRASTRUCTURES RURALES
I NEeo N
5  *Ro.eBoh.e' 4BbecS  /  '  4W   (                                                                                                                        I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJETS PILOTES
r  449 46  i  1    '    ,to6oet60o7k\c                                                                                                                         R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANKS.
16"                                                        *r'bMlnr                               '  /              , ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                              BANOUSS:~ ~ ~
MeloN.                          TI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I6gn,00 ~ ~      ~           ~          ~          ~          ~ ~ ~~AQU5
Oeodp,P  Slpoc ." One'Seo',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                                                                                               6'ali
K *~I    .--   ,A5,                   n0&Aeh.,                                    /               0bd~0                                                                                                1        C1
eBo,  Beck,  -                                                                                        r"""'"                           ~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 RURAL COMMUIoTY CAPITALS'
t"~~0~'"  90Th~~olo~~9,I  "'T,'e"'~~~.'"  0,o,khc  Bonenee  ""'   Be,cOcA,Aed,e&                                                                                       CHEF-LIEUCEF-LIEUD'ARRONDNATE$RMEN L
*-'-r -  '-           -                      I       """''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-               "                                     @1      DEPA~~~~~~~~~ SRTMET CAPITALS'
'   lo'   G" Q         -Nl)k0o                           mogy/                                                                               Ae,SIC -''0-'"                                             5                           CHEF-LIEU GERRDE DARTEMENT
-15"                                                     D" I       0               o,Heo                                                                              -          I                                                                        .-k                        REGION CAPITALS
120>~~~~\~~2t0   ,,'  *,,~~~~~~~~/5   0  04~~~~~  N                04                      Bek~~~~~~Iedpi                           "                                            CHEF-LIEU GE REGIONHEFLIEJ D  REIO
21  q   5                                                                                                                            I                      Sbl'.*                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITALS
PIIO   7i         if          pp          in                   m            <                                                                     I'                                                 .                                                CAP1TASE D'ETAT
--~~r~  r~ ~           ~              "                N'                                                                                   0oteoe05"~"0".<i-   RURAL COMMUNITY BOUNDARIES
DAKAR  "~~~~~~'*~~  20"  _      YiTfI!miI ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                               ji~~~.                                                           SMITE GE COMMUNAUTE RUREDEALEMNAUE RRAL
0  .0i4sT~~~eI'2&~~.                      "2o~,.                                                                                                 ~.                                                         - DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
71 I's         Y.  oo,           29"                                            MD8~ p    3e~oie$to,,                                                                                         R,di. 0"LMITE DARRONDISSEMENT
tAbor~~Te'   ~           -          $,ek    *9"W20<,          i4D               Riob.,~"0ntie""                                                                           -                                                              DEPARTMENT BOUJNDARIES
Mst0b                  1                         0BeI   /~      oChC Co.          0        o,          '                                                             iBle "                                                               MITE GE DEPARTEMENT
U':  eo~~~~~.K~~  OS e      06~~O            o    o '                    "N'                                          "0a  "',L                                                                                                   REGION ROUJNDARIES
12                                                                                   %N" -   4    #c' _      Be /b                                   *.d,n                                                                          LiMITE GE REGION
KciM_.~l  -,~,'I  11~ ---                                                                                     K-"-                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
;oeEooSoc  T0  - T"IS~~~~~~'.     11e2e~*                 rc'                            "     Kuo0         *eI    "                                                             4                            iMITE D'EAT
B~~oAo,   - JRCU'""   "    ~~~  Jo  *~~Ie    ~,j 0R~~b.  Bin.   02,cclt'oC Melee.    N           0Bon.,5eeel                  0    "              A  LI                                the re~~~~~~~~ioneMAoI Doecri- cel ond T-hiT,.
THIFS REGION      DfOUIRSEL REGION             Bee-lnI G.                                                                ...../.jo  """/        Tom     OBd             jf                                   -   eeee                                                                     5                D
TCieNnenel2onie-    Robyeenn                                        ~"        "- -                       ,"S                       !~s                                                                                       .KILOMETERS
2NoTil-k.oln      2Be                                           ole-                   - -'K-,                                                                                                       "0                                                           Thl 00 0 prod-ed b  lewo M Oee,-v U,,,o` The Wodd took.
3 Mbo1n,           2 inoIy                BANJUL""n
eon Bi.lnlet               be~~~~~~ OiEbn   Te8Bne  .C'\"f.et                                                                                              .
IM.   e             eoebeen MU-TH '                                                                        ' tt1k",.                      G      '"B                                                                                                                    .P./"e-  Ttbndonee,,colyn,no,oeooeedonyoAW-inf,-klG-n.So-y
Otloodoe          64LR,nopo0iM BIAo
7K~~~~~~~~~~d  7.-Y Ng.g:                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oU.opool,py,oeoroTewndo'koe~   o
5.Be  dinolKO,  p.oM 2,et't 'd                                      r 7                                      ON,.,-       ,.Kh-eee
Edn                                                               F S20ene)*,d.T1"""Snhi, -0o
B ee.eb            O~N1 1 0...                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13'MVDI-    0     ienm"L   -Iooolnieex.ooofr  orI,ooyoo.on
PSeel  7t-e9ogon.  . 1     ~ ~          ~ Neecoe    'l~             ""'r""  0.4  tebe1t                                                            Rbo,,eoe0  /                                 oocepteneeoleuelboodoFoee
NteeeoBltkl lle,eeo                                                                    ,"\                          ~'OIc6F"40'
P MOe,"  9.R,ie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ke,  """"1"""(  '--'           tnleee,oe "0     OSo         Bodice~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I"                 I      0        -                                            K.Spnih             LGRI
14 10' ned Ndey       0.I Ide, n"E.             KI 1                                                                                                                               It,I'-.;'"S   lello" ~ 1 0 "'.Koi   SeM  T0e  o"i-.,,"  /I                                                  I
lI.teebel0ionle  lI.Ndec?cI B.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '  '"'S     .              f~~~~~~'-  me                   B                  o                 --          ~~Shar
R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Io                                                                                                                                                                                             Omrr"  ''
I2 CeoBeleD         I   dnii..l        Klenieel.IMe                           /oe:1                                                           "
12 Oc Goien         Bie.l                            I  1 ie                               00             oSc.,3 
~~~7 N&.61>iwbie  m                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ------vl0'  I B',  "d10  edoI' ~ "    o0idern
8~~~~ T... MO                                                                                                                                                Iad~~~~~~~~'Sb                                                 pcsol 
20 d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'en    le9Ceon"                                       eedel                                                                                                                                            MAURITANIAK.                        LGRI
10'Ein-,d,Oe       23.IT.. HdMed,              Bop   A00        C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L0 I~  O0A~..PFe. ~   'mcde    o,,ee  d
2R tede             lB.: MToe,". M            y"t,          0oe1                            GUI.' NEA            B"eBAUJ
294No,.,.n          2Sleb                             SenlGoUoI  N2ErA                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I      MAKIN
NS ,nd0.M-         2 D.,.$bPo                                                            GUI       EA                                                                                                                                                                        GUINUEA eI
29 ted,e0e,,m  20. Oeod,ce                               -~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ '                                                                                               G UIN E A                 12                                                                          /sGHA~~
,7~~                         ~~C6 E D'I'VCIRE~~OA                                                                                                                         M'M
21 SoedOm  SI 'loeboBbool  '    /                                                                                                                                                   GUINEA                    K         .4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEEBE 19



