Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3315-SE
Development Credit Agreement 
(National Rural Infrastructure Program - Phase I) 
between 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 23, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3315-SE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 23, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated October 26, 1999, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
accelerate the Borrower’s rural development through a decentralized approach (the 
Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of 12 years, the proceeds of 
such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD), a loan in an aggregate amount equivalent to 
US$7,500,000, to assist in financing the Program on the terms and conditions set forth 
in a loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and IFAD (IFAD Loan 
Page  2
Agreement); and 
WHEREAS (E) the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the 
Program upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AIP” or “annual investment plans” means the program for investment for a 
twelve-month period prepared by a CR (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
“APCR” means the Association of Presidents of Rural Communities, 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(c)
“AWPB” means an annual work plan and budget prepared by the Borrower for 
the purpose of the Project pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(d)
“CNDCL” means Conseil national de développement des collectivités 
locales, the National Council for Local Communities Development established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(e)
“CR” or “Collectivité rurale” or “communauté rurale” means any of the 
rural communities, as defined under the Borrower’s Law on Decentralization No. 96-06; 
(f)
“DCL” means Direction des Collectivités Locales, the Directorate for 
Local Communities, within MID (as hereinafter defined);
(g)
“DGR” means Direction du Génie Rural, the Directorate of Rural 
Engineering, within MA (as hereinafter defined);
(h)
“Financial Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement containing, inter alia, details on the 
procedures regarding financial management to be used in the implementation of the 
Project and such term includes any schedules to the Financial Procedures Manual; 
(i)
“FCFA” means the currency of the Borrower;
(j)
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year starting January 1 and ending 
December 31 of each year;
(k)
“Implementing Agencies” means collectively all the agencies and 
ministries of the Borrower which are responsible for the carrying out of one or 
several parts of the Project; 
(l)
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
“Innovation Fund” means the fund to be established under Part B.2 of the 
Project;
(n)
“LDP” means local development plans, prepared or updated by CR containing 
details on the program of activities to be carried out in the CR;
(o)
“LIF” means local investment fund referred to in Part B of the Project 
Page  3
which includes both the Innovation Fund and the Rural Investment Fund (as hereinafter 
defined);
(p)
“Matching Grant” means a matching grant provided under Part B of the 
Project;
(q)
“Matching Grant Beneficiary” means a community or a group which meets the 
criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) to 
which or for whose benefit a Matching Grant is made or proposed to be made for the 
carrying out of a Micro-project (as hereinafter defined) under Part B of the Project; 
(r)
“Microproject” means a specific activity carried out or to be carried out  
under Part B of the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a Matching 
Grant extended under Part B of the Project;
(s)
“MINT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Interior;
(t)
“MA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture;
(u)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement; 
(v)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(w)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit to be established pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(x)
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee to be established pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(y)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement containing, inter alia, 
work-plans, training plans, and procedures to be used for the purpose of 
implementation of the Project, as they may be amended from time to time with the 
approval of the Association and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(z)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(aa)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letters, dated April 16, 
1998, and March 12, 1999, between the Borrower and the Association;  
(bb)
“Rural Investment Fund” means the fund established under Part B.1 of the 
Project;
(cc)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(dd)
“Strategic Framework for Rural Transport” means the Borrower’s national 
strategy for rural roads, adopted on October 21, 1999; 
(ee)
“Subproject” means any activity or a group of activities to be carried 
out under Part C of the Project, as agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association;
(ff)
“Subproject Grant” means a grant provided under Part C of the Project; 
and
(gg)
“Subproject Grant Beneficiary” means a community or a group which meets 
the criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual to which or for whose 
benefit a Subproject Grant is made or proposed to be made for the carrying out of a 
Subproject under Part C of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
Page  4
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 20,500,000)  
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (other than Parts B and C thereof) and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, 
to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by a Matching Grant Beneficiary or a 
Subproject Beneficiary, under a Microproject or a Sub-project to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for a Microproject or a Sub-project and in respect 
of which the withdrawals from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA, in the name of the Project, a special deposit account, in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15, commencing April 15, 2010 and ending October 15, 2039.  
Each installment to, and including the installment payable on October 15, 2019 shall 
Page  5
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgement of the Association, 
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.  
Page  6
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 (a) of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
establish and maintain a Project Account in a commercial bank under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an amount equivalent to FCFA 85,000,000;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account, not later than June 30, in each year, 
until the completion of the Project, an amount in FCFA 224,000,000 for year 2001, FCFA 
140,000,000 for year 2002, and FCFA 112,000,000 for year 2003, or such greater amount 
as may be required for the purposes of the Project, and as specified in the AWPB; and 
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used only 
to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and Account reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and Account are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Page  7
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen months after the Effective 
Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month 
period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.   
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has opened a Project Account and deposited therein the 
amount of the Initial Deposit; 
(c)
the Borrower has appointed all the key staff referred to in paragraph 4 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, including five (5) of the nine (9) regional 
coordinators, for an initial period of one year, each with terms of reference and 
qualifications satisfactory to the Association; 
(d)
the Borrower has established the PSC and the PCU with membership, 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association;  
(e)
the Borrower has promulgated a decree, in form and substance acceptable 
to the Association, providing for the statute of  community secretary; 
(f)
the Borrower has established a financial accounting and management 
Page  8
system, satisfactory to the Association, and adopted a Financial Procedures Manual, in 
form and substance acceptable to the Association; and 
(g)
the IFAD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
B. P. 4017
Rue René N’Diaye 
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address:
Telex:
MINIFINANCES
3203G
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President   
Page  9
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works for 
   3,700,000
80% 
Subprojects
(2)
Goods
   1,000,000
80%
(3)
Consultants’ services
   2,700,000
75% 
(4)
Training 
   2,900,000
75%
(5)
Operating Costs
   1,700,000
75%
(6)
Matching Grants
   5,600,000
80%
(7)
Refunding of
   1,000,000
Amount due 
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c) of 
Advance this 
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   1,900,000
TOTAL
  20,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “operating costs” means incremental 
expenditures incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring 
including office consumables (including communication expenses), staff travel and 
associated subsistence allowances, salaries for incremental contractual and temporary 
staff, office rental, office supplies and maintenance, fuel and maintenance for 
vehicles and equipment, and audit, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil 
servants. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
(b)
a Subproject, unless: (i) such Subproject has been approved in accordance 
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 18 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower has submitted the draft annual budget satisfactory to 
the Association for the Fiscal Year corresponding to the Subproject. 
(c)
a Matching Grant, unless such Matching Grant has been approved in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 14 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;
(d)
payments made for expenditures for goods and services supplied under a 
contract which any national or international financing institution or agency other 
than the Association, shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other credit 
or grant. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
Page  10
equivalent; (iii) consultants’ services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; (iv) consultants’ services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent; and (v) operating costs and training under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the Borrower’s local 
governance and local capacity to contribute  to poverty reduction in the rural areas; 
(ii) to establish participatory mechanisms for selecting, funding and implementing 
rural community investment programs; and (iii) to implement basic infrastructure 
programs in a selected number of rural communities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Support for Decentralized Rural Development  
1.
Design and implementation of decentralized management models including fiscal 
instruments for rural areas for the purpose of developing modalities to implement 
proposed reforms.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of about 90 CRs for participatory management of their 
affairs including local management and planning, governance and information sharing, 
and strengthening CR’s response against HIV/AIDS, through the provision of:
(i) 
technical advisory services, training, equipment and acquisition 
of mopeds, to 
enable CRs to become the maitre d’ouvrage of 
their infrastructure works.
(ii) 
technical advisory services for the preparation or updating of 
LDPs of CRs and 
extracting AIPs therefrom. 
(iii)
technical advisory services and equipment to assist CRs to 
structure their demand, 
to assess and organize training, and to 
facilitate information circulation. 
(iv)
training in the areas of decentralization, CR management, and 
microproject cycle, 
to officials and community leaders, 
including local workshops and study tours.
3.
Facilitating the process of rural decentralization by strengthening the capacity 
of national entities and institutions engaged in the design and implementation of 
decentralization policies, through:
(i)
the provision of technical advisory services and equipment to 
CNDCL to develop 
capacity to analyze, study, and evaluate 
decentralization policies, including 
establishment, within 
CNDCL, of a  system for evaluating different  ongoing 
programs of decentralization.
(ii)
the provision of technical advisory services, equipment and 
logistical assistance 
to DCL to facilitate the implementation 
of Part A of the Project.
(iii)
the carrying out of a study on rural technical deconcentrated 
services to 
rationalize their roles and functions in local 
development. 
(iv)
the provision of technical advisory services to facilitate APCR’s 
restructuring 
into an association of locally elected 
officials, including the redesigning of its 
statutes and redefining of 
its mandate and provision of training and equipment 
therefor. 
Page  11
Part B:
Local Investment Fund (LIF) 
1.
Establishment, management and operation of a Rural Investment Fund in about 60 
CRs, including the provision of grants, on matching basis, for Microprojects 
identified by the CRs pertaining, inter alia, to health and maternity centers, 
schools, potable water and sanitation, access roads, and culverts, and initiatives to 
help fight against HIV/AIDS.  
2.
Establishment, management and operation of an Innovation Fund to improve, on a 
continual basis, through action research, the implementation procedures regarding the 
Local Investment Fund and to prepare modalities for broadening the scope of 
Microprojects eligible for funding of productive investments in the communities.  
3.
Promotion, preparation, appraisal, execution, supervision and evaluation of 
Micro-projects, including provision of Matching Grants therefor.
Part C:
Community Roads Program 
1.
Planning and carrying out of a community roads access program based on 
Subprojects identified by CRs, in about 60 CRs covered by the Rural Investment Fund 
referred to in Part B of this Schedule. 
2.
Carrying out of the activities described in the Strategic Framework for Rural 
Transport, including the conception and setting up of mechanisms for planning, 
management and maintenance for the rural road networks within the CR, and mobilization 
of resources for maintenance.
3.
Strengthening operational capacity of DGR through the provision of technical 
advisory services  and equipment to: (a) prepare strategies and define its role and 
functions, and (b) enable DGR to carry out activities related to Project 
implementation, including activities related to environmental safeguards. 
Part D:
Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance, and 
acquisition of equipment and material for the benefit of PCU and its regional offices 
for the overall implementation of the Project. 
2.
Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation of the Project through the 
establishment and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system.   
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999, (the Guidelines), and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Page  12
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $9,300,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$368,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Vehicles, equipment and drugs estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured from IAPSO or UNIPAC in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Community Participation
(a) 
Small works under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall be issued to contractors selected on the basis of 
prequalification from the anticipated  annual regional work program, and shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully. 
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, contracts under 
Part B of the Project, costing less than $5000, may be procured through direct 
contracting by using the list of prequalified contractors.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
Page  13
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works or goods  estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines), and  the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial and technical audits may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small studies and supervision of civil works estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for training and technical advisory services to local communities under 
Part B of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
Page  14
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion 
of the Association, such amendment, abrogation or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project.  
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall, not later than September 1 of each year, prepare and 
furnish to the Association an annual work plan and budget (AWPB). The Borrower and the 
Association shall discuss each AWPB at the joint annual review meeting and, after 
incorporating the comments of the Association, the Borrower shall, not later than 
December 1, approve the AWPB.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph (a) above, for each 
Subproject, the AWPB shall also include all activities to mitigate and compensate for 
the environmental damages identified in the environmental impact assessment. For the 
purpose of general oversight of the Project, the Borrower shall establish, and 
maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) to be 
presided over by the Prime Minister or his representative, and composed of equal 
number of representatives from the Borrower’s concerned ministries and civil society.  
(c)
The PSC shall, inter alia, (i) facilitate working relations amongst 
institutions concerned by Project implementation, (ii) review the progress towards 
achieving the Project’s objectives and approve and evaluate the Project’s annual work 
program and budget, (iii) ensure the participation of the key stakeholders in the 
general orientation of the Project; and (iv) organize at least once a year a joint 
meeting between the Borrower and the donors participating in the Project’s financing. 
(d)
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, the 
Project Coordination Unit. 
(e)
The PCU shall be assisted by a number of key staff, appointed in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
including a Project coordinator, financial and administrative manager, monitoring and 
Page  15
evaluation coordinator, an accountant, and nine regional coordinators. 
3.
The PCU shall be responsible for: (i) overall coordination regarding the 
implementation of the different Parts of the Project, (ii) the consolidation of annual 
work programs and budgets, (iii) the setting-up and implementation of an independent 
monitoring and evaluation system, (iv) the design and implementation of media 
campaign, and (v) the financial and administrative management of the Project.  
4.
The Borrower shall establish, at the regional level, Project coordination 
offices staffed by a Regional Coordinator (RC). 
5.
The Regional Coordinator shall coordinate Project activities at the regional 
level, provide support to participating CRs, and ensure implementation of the regular 
monitoring and evaluation program and shall report directly to the Project 
Coordinator.
6.
The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through DCL, Parts B, C.1, 
C.2 and D of the Project through PCU, Part C.3 of the Project through DGR. 
7.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association, a 
comprehensive annual project implementation review aimed at: (i) annually documenting 
progress toward objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to project 
implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and 
corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project as of the date of the review, and ensuring responsiveness to changes to 
effectively achieve the objectives of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review 
referred to in (a) above, furnish to the Association a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved 
in Project implementation.
(c)
Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall carry out 
recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association’s comments 
thereon.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators referred 
to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by January 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the matter. 
9.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association at the end of the first and third 
quarters of each year, a progress report including information on the Performance 
Indicators based on data from the monitoring system. The report shall include, inter 
alia: (a) a summary statement on the status of execution of each activity under the 
Project; and (b) a table showing compliance with project covenants and progress in 
implementing agreed policy objectives. 
10.
The Borrower shall cause each Implementing Agency to prepare and submit to the 
Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) Coordinator, a biannual progress report, no later 
Page  16
than January 31 and July 31 in each year. The M&E Coordinator thereafter shall 
incorporate the contents of the individual reports into a consolidated progress report 
for the entire Project and furnish it to the Association.
11.
The Borrower shall carry out, not later than January 31, 2002 or such later date 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree, and every 24 months thereafter, an 
independent performance evaluation of the Project. Such performance evaluation shall 
be based on data provided by the evaluation system as well as on surveys and 
interviews of beneficiaries and the different partners participating in Project 
implementation and shall include: (i) the effects of Project activities on the 
beneficiaries with particular focus on vulnerable groups; (ii) the operational audit 
of the Project; and (iii) the lessons learned, which can serve to improve the 
efficiency in Project implementation, and to make adjustments to the Project 
Implementation Manual.  
Part A of the Project 
12.
To assist CRs in carrying out their participatory diagnoses, and the updating of 
LDP, the Borrower shall appoint field operators in each identified CR. The 
participatory diagnosis shall aim at ensuring  that all stakeholder groups, including 
vulnerable groups, are properly represented, and facilitating participatory planing of 
local investments, identification of priority investment, dissemination of information 
throughout the CR, and creation of local synergies. 
Part B of the Project
13.
The Project Coordinator shall be responsible for the management of the LIF at 
the national level. The CRs shall be responsible for the implementation of community 
Microprojects. All community Microprojects proposals shall contain the following: 
(i) identification, selection, operation, oversight and maintenance, by and for the 
benefit of communities; (ii) contractual implementation of works by local artisans, 
private enterprises, or by the communities themselves; (iii) responsibility for 
technical supervision and monitoring of Microproject implementation shared by CRs, 
territorial administration and deconcentrated sectoral services. 
14.
The Borrower shall implement Part B of the Project in accordance with the 
operating procedures and eligibility criteria specified below, and in more detail, in 
the Project Implementation Manual. To be eligible for financing from the proceeds of 
the Credit, each proposed Microproject shall be consistent with the LDP and shall: (i) 
have been identified, prepared and designed by a local community; (ii) include 
implementation arrangements which are simple and flexible, and require the 
Microproject to be executed by local contractors, local artisans, and communities 
themselves ensuring transparency and accountability at all levels, or include plans 
for the gradual empowerment of local communities to execute the Microproject 
themselves; and (iii) be a Microproject than can be sustained and replicated. 
15.
Each CR shall be responsible for the management and supervision of capital 
investments under Part B of the Project. 
16.
For the purpose of maintaining each Microproject, the Borrower shall establish 
an Infrastructure Maintenance Committee (IMC) for each such Microproject, and cause 
each CR to establish a budget line for the maintenance of its infrastructure.  
17.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Micro-Projects
For purposes of financing Microprojects, the Borrower shall enter into 
appropriate arrangements with Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, which shall include the following:
(a)
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (i) carry out the Microproject with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental, managerial and participatory standards and to maintain adequate records 
to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Microproject; (ii) ensure that every Microproject 
is fully consistent with environmental criteria set out in the Project Implementation 
Manual, and where appropriate, mitigation measures designed to minimize adverse 
effects of proposed Microprojects are identified and incorporated in the Microproject 
Page  17
design; and (iii) establish and maintain a fund aimed at mobilizing financial 
resources required to ensure an adequate, regular and sustainable maintenance of the 
infrastructure developed by the Beneficiary with the proceeds of the Grant; 
(b)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
ensuring efficiency and economy, and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Microproject; and
(c)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Microproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents. Part C of the Project
18.
The Borrower shall implement Part C of the Project in accordance with the 
operating procedures and eligibility criteria specified below, and in more detail, in 
the Project Implementation Manual. To be eligible for financing from the proceeds of 
the Credit, each proposed Subproject shall: (i) have been identified, prepared and 
designed by a local community; (ii) include implementation arrangements which are 
simple and flexible, and require the Subproject to be executed by local contractors, 
local artisans, and communities themselves ensuring transparency and accountability at 
all levels, or include plans for the gradual empowerment of local communities to 
execute the Subproject themselves; and (iii) be a Subproject than can be sustained and 
replicated.
19.
In the carrying out of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that: 
(i) the community roads identified for improvement, are consistent with the overall 
plan for rural infrastructure, as articulated in the LDP; (ii) the proposed program 
(service level) is consistent with the Borrower’s rural transport strategy; (iii) a 
local contribution as specified in the project Implementation Manual is provided for; 
(iv) the CR has retained necessary technical assistance; and (v) the rural roads 
funded under the Project have a satisfactory track record of maintenance. 
20.
For the purpose of maintaining each Subproject, the Borrower shall establish an 
Infrastructure Maintenance Committee (IMC) for each such Subproject, and cause each CR 
to establish a budget line for the maintenance of its infrastructure.   
21.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
For purposes of financing Subprojects, the Borrower shall enter into appropriate 
arrangements with Subproject Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, which shall include the following:
(a)
the obligation of the Subproject Beneficiary to: (i) carry out the 
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, environmental, managerial and participatory standards and to maintain 
adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject; (ii) ensure that 
every Subproject is fully consistent with environmental criteria set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual, and where appropriate, mitigation measures designed to 
minimize adverse effects of proposed Subprojects are identified and incorporated in 
the Subproject design; and (iii) establish and maintain a fund aimed at mobilizing 
financial resources required to ensure an adequate, regular and sustainable 
maintenance of key infrastructure developed by the Subproject Beneficiary with the 
proceeds of the Grant;
(b)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
ensuring efficiency and economy, and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject; and
(c)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents.
SCHEDULE 5 
Page  18
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6), set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
1,000,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to CFAF 500,000,000,until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence.   
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  19
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators Support for Decentralized Rural Development  
1.
Legislation relative to CRs’ decentralized taxation and financial management, 
and relative to the reform of fiscal transfers to CR have been reviewed and adopted by 
the Borrower; 
2.
Regulatory texts, prepared by the National Council for Local Communities 
Development, which harmonize implementation modalities of decentralized rural 
development policies and programs have been reviewed and adopted by the Borrower; 
3.
The end of project beneficiary participatory evaluation has revealed that 
populations of target rural communes, including the marginalized and vulnerable 
groups, are satisfied with their participation level in the decentralized rural 
development processes established under the first phase of NRIP, and find that rural 
infrastructures funded under NRIP respond to their basic needs;
4.
The monitoring and evaluation system established under NRIP is operational; 
Page  20
5.
At least 80% of participating CRs have received at lease 80% of the planned 
training; 
6.
At least 80% of targeted CRs have designed a detailed local development plan in 
a participatory manner; 
7.
At least 70% of targeted CRs have an unqualified financial audit.
8.
Local Investment Fund At least 60% of approved Microprojects (in year 1, 2, and 
3) have been successfully completed; 
9.
At least 70% of targeted CRs have successfully completed at least two 
infrastructure Microprojects. 
10.
Community Roads Program 60% of the total kilometer of the community roads 
rehabilitated under NRIP receive regular maintenance consistent with the adopted 
maintenance strategy.
