Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19273
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28470-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
Credit No. 29830-GE
June 1, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
ECA Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 25, 1999)
Currency Unit          =                Lari
US$1               =               L2.39
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
EU       European Union
GOG       Government of Georgia
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
LDP       Letter of Development Policy
MOE       Ministry of the Economy
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NBG       National Bank of Georgia
PFP      Policy Framework Paper
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC        Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SBA       Stand-By Arrangement
TA       Technical Assistance
UBG       United Bank of Georgia
GEORGIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:    Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director:  Judy O'Connor, ECC03
Sector Leader:     Hafez Ghanem, ECSPE
Team Leader:        Cyril Muller, Country Officer, ECC03



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28470-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
Credit No. 29830-GE
PREFACE                                       CONTENTS
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.         Objectives, Background and Description. 
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                       .4
C.         Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project               .8
D.  Project Sustainability                                       .9
E.  Bank Performnance .10
F.  Borrower Performance                                         .11
G.  Assessment of Outcome                                        .12
H.  Future Operations .12
I.  Key Lessons Learned .12
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ...............................................                15
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ...............................................                    16
Table 3:  Project Timetable ...............................................                     17
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................................ 18
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...............................................  19
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ...............................................  19
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ...............................................           19
Table 8A: Project Costs ...............................................                         20
Table 8B: Project Financing ...............................................                     21
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ...............................................           21
Table 1O: Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................             22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...............................................  22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................          22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ................................................             23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR
B. Policy Matrix May 1999
C. Tranche Release Measures for SAC I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28470-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
Credit No. 29830-GE
Preface
This ICR covers two credits to Georgia: The first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I)
for SDR41.3 million ($60 million equivalent), approved by the Board on April 18, 1996, signed
on April 26, 1996, and made effective on June 12, 1996; and the second Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC II) SDR44.2 million (also $60 million equivalent), approved on September 4, 1997,
signed on September 15, 1997, and made effective on November 5, 1997. SAC I closed on
December 31, 1997, which was the original closing date and SAC II closed on March 31, 1999,
three months after the original closing date.
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared by Richard Carroll as a desk
assignment, based on interviews with staff and materials from the project file. Ms. Judy O'Connor
was the Country Director for Georgia and had overall responsibility for monitoring progress of the
two operations until close. Messrs. Cyril Muller (Sr. Country Officer, ECC03), S. Ramachandran
(EASPR), Pervaiz Rashid (ECSPE), and Ms. Michelle Riboud (Task Manager for SAC I and SAC
II, WBIHD) provided comments. Mines. Cheryl Martin (ECC03) and Frances Rosenthal
(ECSPE) provided support and comments for the ICR. Mr. Cyril Muller oversaw production of the
ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28470-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
Credit No. 29830-GE
Evaluation Summary1
Project Origin and Objectives
1.    This ICR covers two credits to Georgia: The first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I)
for SDR41.3 million ($60 million equivalent), approved by the Board on April 18, 1996, signed
on April 26, 1996, and made effective on June 12, 1996; and the second Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC II) SDR44.2 million (also $60 million equivalent), approved on September 4, 1997,
signed on September 15, 1997, and made effective on November 5, 1997.
2.    The objective of SAC I was "to support the Government of Georgia's (GOG) program to
consolidate stabilization, foster a strong and sustained growth recovery and reduce poverty" by
"i) maintaining a tight monetary program supported by an improving fiscal position;
ii) streamlining the Government sector and improving efficiency of public spending; and
iii) inducing a rapid adjustment of the productive sector to new market signals." The objective
SAC II was "to support the GOG's program to consolidate the stabilization gains recently
achieved and to strengthen the current economic recovery." The reform program aimed at:
"(i) strengthening public finance while maintaining a prudent monetary policy; (ii) developing
the private sector; and (iii) alleviating poverty." This program was consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) which emphasized rapid development of the private sector and
poverty alleviation by strengthening the social safety net via improved access to health and
education.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Overview. By the time of SAC I preparation, Georgia's civil war in Abkhazia had ended
and the government had begun the transformation of the Georgian economy. After early
privatizations in agriculture and small scale enterprises, and other reforms, IDA began to assist
with the design and development of reforms and strengthening economic management capacity
beginning with an Institution Building Credit (approved in July 1994) and, later, a Rehabilitation
Credit (approved March 1995). Early stabilization measures were very successful, with the
I The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for SAC I and SAC 11 covers actions and events in Georgia relating to these two operations until
SAC 11 close (March 1999).



- ii-
budget deficit reduced to 6 percent of GDP in 1995, average monthly inflation reduced from 64
percent in 1994 to 3 percent in 1995. Political developments also supported the reforms. In July
1995, the Parliament ratified a new constitution that gave wide ranging power to the president.
Georgians elected Eduard Shevardnadze, a strong reformer, as president in November 1995. The
macroeconomy fiurther stabilized in 1996 and 1997 with the deficit reduced to 4 percent of GDP
and annual inflation to 14 percent by the end of 1996 and 7 percent in 1997.
4.    The program supported by SAC I concentrated on macroeconomic and public sector
priorities with a strong privatization program. SAC I addressed reforms in four major areas: (i)
Tight Monetary Policy; (ii) ][mprove the Fiscal System; (iii) Streamline the Government and
Improve the Efficiency of Public Spending; and (iv) Adjustment of the Productive Sector. SAC
II covered policies in three miajor areas: (i) Strengthening Public Finance While Maintaining a
Prudent Monetary Policy; (ii) Developing the Private Sector; and (iii) Alleviating Poverty.
Summary of Accomp][ishments
5.    Performance of SAC I and II met or exceeded expectations in most respects and borrower
performance was satisfactory. Except for the SAC 11 second tranche, the tranches for both
credits disbursed on time or ahead of schedule. SAC II's second tranche was delayed because of
factors related to the fiscal crisis in 1998. On implementation progress and development
objectives, the SALC I was consistently rated as highly satisfactory. SAC II was also consistently
rated satisfactory. Although the two adjustment operations had essentially the same scope, they
were distinguished in the circumstances in which they were implemented. Under SAC I,
Georgians had little to lose from rapid reforrn, but under SAC II with a much more favorable,
rapidly growing economy, new private owners sought protections and reforms slowed. SAC II
sought first to preserve reforms and continue in the same vein. SAC II, however, did go
considerably deeper into reforming the energy sector.
6.    Macroeconomic Stabilization and Balance.  GOG pursued tight monietary policy
throughout SAC I and II with the expected substantial reduction in inflation. Revenue
performance improved rapidly during 1994-97, with revenues increasing from 3.7 percent of
GDP in 1994 to 7.2 percent in 1996 and to about 9 percent by 1997, because of the institution of
new taxes, removal of exemptions, and better collections. Revenues did not improve, however,
in 1998, which led to a substantial accumulation of arrears. The failure to improve revenue
performance was mainly due to an inability to enforce existing taxes on large buLsinesses and
excised goods.
7.    Government pay and employment reforms were carried out in essentially two steps. The
first was to reduce the bloated civil service (by 40 percent) and to raise salaries to a living wage
(an increase of six-fold), although salaries are still too low. The second step was implementing
the comprehensive civil service law which established real employment guidelines and widened
the pay scale to reflect jobs of different levels of responsibility. This good effort lost some
credibility, however, because of the GOG's inability to pay government salaries, in some cases,
for several months, again related to the 1998 fiscal crisis.
8.    Developing the Private Sector. Price liberalization began in mid-1994 and under SAC I
and II, further price increases on basic consumer items were achieved for bread, electricity and
urban transportation, with bread fully liberalized by mid- 1996. Import duties remained low at 12



- iii -
percent, 5 percent for selected capital goods. The GOG eliminated most export hindrances,
including the 8 percent export tax, export licenses and quotas, and ex ante registration of export
contracts. One flaw in this area was the erosion of tariff uniformity where basic goods tended to
command lower tariffs and lobbying efforts caused tariffs to be selectively raised.
9.    SAC 1 helped accelerate privatization. Almost all small-scale enterprises were privatized
by the start of SAC II. About half of the medium to large enterprises had also been privatized.
To date, over 1,000 corporatized large and medium enterprises have been privatized. This
number represents roughly 90 percent of total enterprises, but there remains a considerable value
of unprivatized firms. Infrastructure privatization began with the Telasi distribution company
which was sold to a strategic investor in the second half of 1998. More international investor
interest will be needed to privatize the largest enterprises. The GOG also reformed the foreign
investment code to encourage this participation.
10.   The GOG instituted minimum price auctions for a period for some enterprises. The use
of minimum prices was not successful. Potential buyers decided not to participate in minimum
price auctions, reasoning that the GOG would follow-up with zero auctions (which the
Government did). Generally, enterprises sold for less than the previous minimum price at the
subsequent zero auctions.
11.   The Law on Entrepreneurs was enacted which allowed for the adjustment of accounting
standards and to establish independent share registrars. A securities law was also submitted to
parliament, which established a Securities and Exchange Commission, the issuance, registration
and trading of securities and operation of a stock exchange. The first major initiative in the
banking sector established the National Bank of Georgia's (NBG) legal and regulatory oversight
on commercial banks with the Commercial Banking Law (February 1996). NBG developed
power gradually by administering SAC sponsored timetables for progress toward prudential
requirements.
12.   Reforms in the Energy Sector. Parliament adopted an Electricity law in June 1997.
The residential tariff was increased to a level that would cover O&M. The tariff increases were
followed up with a new tariff methodology and adopted by the Georgia National Energy
Regulatory Commission (NERC) in July 1998. Georgia also adopted a regulatory framework
governing generation transmission and distribution companies. The rapid privatization of Telasi,
a distribution company, demonstrated Georgia's commitment to foreign investor driven
privatization in the energy sector. Collection for energy bills rose from 20 percent in 1995, to 65
percent in 1997. Bankruptcy proceedings were initiated against industrial consumers failing to
pay arrears according to schedule. The second tranche release criterion that collections reach 85
percent in 1998 was waived because collections rates were increasing, to 70 percent, and 85
percent was reevaluated as unattainable before a comprehensive restructuring of the energy
sector.
13.   Health and Education. The expenditure side reforms reduced general government
payroll and redirected resources toward social sectors. There was radical reform of the health
care system with autonomous management of hospitals with government finance limited to basic
services. GOG also adopted a master plan for reorganization and privatization of hospitals.
Education reforms included preparation of a school map and a program to certify teachers. The
budget allocations to health and education fell short of the SAC II second tranche release



- iv -
threshold. However, the government did improve its allocation in the last few months of 1998
despite severe fiscal strains.
14.  In summary, during the two adjustment operations, almost all of the reforms were carried
out by the respective closing dates of December 31, 1997 and March 31, 1999. The performance
of SAC I and SAC II should be viewed as a series of operations, preceded by the Rehabilitation
Credit, and followed by a SAC III to support GOG's program of private sector led growth.
Bank Performance
15.   The Bank identified key reform areas as evidenced by falling inflation and positive
growth. The SAC conditions were tough, but realistic, as shown by their successful
implementation. Coordination between the Bank and the IMF was effective in achieving
stabilization and structural reforms. With respect to bank restructuring, the program was
successful in establishing a credible central bank and committing banks to improving their
balance sheets. The Bank's institution of a timetable for meeting prudential requirements
strengthened the IMF's approach of conferring a strong legal status on the NBG. Bank policy
toward the Agro Bank was perhaps overly accommodating, however, as Agro-Bank was not
permanently resolved prior to the second tranche release of SAC II, and GOG pursued half way
measures to allow its continued operation. The Bank took a hard fiscal stance in order to
encourage GOG to improve revenue generation, which it did from 3.7 percent in 1994 to about 9
percent in 1998. SAC II also complemented the Bank's energy sector credit. The Bank's
investment in adding capacity in the energy sector would not have been sustainable without the
policy side support of SAC II, in particular, tariff overhaul, increasing collections and general
commercialization and privatization of the sector. In general, the Bank, together with GOG,
developed a relevant reform program for a country undergoing fundamental economic and
political transformations and advanced that program. The Bank supported the reform process
with close and frequent supervision. Monitoring efforts would have been enhanced with more
quantitative performance indicators tracked systematically before during and after tranche
release. Recent Bank sectoral operations related to the policy areas of SAC I and II include: the
Enterprise Rehabilitation Project ($15 million-FY99), the Social Investment Fund ($20 million-
FY98), and Power Rehabilitation ($52.3 million-FY97).
Future Operations
16.   Follow-up adjustment operations to SAC I and SAC II have not yet begun, but SAC III is
under discussion with GOG, and approval is planned for the end of FY99. SATAC II is ongoing
and supports equipment and consulting needs for the reform program.
Lessons Learned
17.   The main lessons learned are:
Sustaining fiscal reform. Progress in fiscal reform can be hampered by external factors. In
1998, the collapse of the Russian economy created severe fiscal strains for Georgia including
arrears to health and education. By early 1999, Georgia was beginning to restore funds to
health and education.



*  Further gains in resource mobilization. As revenue mobilization increases, as it has in
Georgia since 1994 (3.7 to 9 percent of GDP), it becomes more difficult to achieve incremental
tax revenue. Collections capability should therefore be emphasized until tax compliance is
achieved.
*  High level counterpart. The Bank should always investigate whether it is possible to enlist
the support of individuals in top management in the Government who will champion the
program that the Bank supports. Having such an ally is a great advantage for implementation
of refonns, trouble shooting, resource mobilization, etc.
*  The power of the LDP. Specific measures in the LDP can give real power and credibility to
fledgling institutions. For instance, the financial supervisory provisions in the LDP helped
supervisors from NBG gain needed access to bank records.
*  Continuity of SAC teams. It is advantageous to maintain project team continuity to achieve
greater ownership. There is also less rehashing of agreements and smoother implementation.
*  Law is not power. Power cannot be created by conferring a legal status on an institution. In
Georgia it was not sufficient to invest NBG with legal supervisory and regulatory power over
powerful banks. Such banks could ignore legal authority in the absence of enforcement.
Credibility of legal status and, therefore, power can be built with gradual measures tied to fund
release, as was done with the timetable of meeting prudential targets under the SACs.
*  Vouchers do not guarantee democracy in ownership. Although vouchers can facilitate
transfer of entities to the private sector, the rise of a secondary market in vouchers can
concentrate them in the hands of a few. This result defeats the purpose of vouchers which is to
give all citizens the opportunity to redeem an equal claim to publicly owned entities. The
secondary market for vouchers exploited most participants' short-term need for cash and
enabled them to sell at a heavy discount. One action that might have thwarted the concentration
of vouchers in the hands of a few would have been a more comprehensive list of companies to
come up for auction, that was available farther in advance. Voucher holders would have had a
better picture of what their vouchers could have been used for.
* Benefits of explaining trade liberalization are high. It is sometimes the case that
liberalization is not pursued because the benefits are not made clear. What to some people is
obvious, to others is not. Contacts with parliamentarians, business leaders, etc., and making
the case for liberalizing, and stressing the costs of not liberalizing, was effective under the
adjustment operations.
* Frequent and close supervision for new borrowers. Intensive supervision is a key success
factor for projects in new member countries which are unfamiliar with Bank. Georgia
required close and frequent Bank consultations as were provided by the supervision teams.
Major supervision costs of airfare, travel time, etc., can be also be controlled by distributing
them over not only the SAC operation, but also projects in neighboring countries (Armenia).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28470-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
Credit No. 29830-GE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Objectives, Background and Project Description
1.    This ICR covers two credits to Georgia: The first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I)
for SDR41.3 million ($60 million equivalent), approved by the Board on April 18, 1996, signed
on April 26, 1996, and made effective on June 12, 1996; and the second Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC II) SDR44.2 million (also $60 million equivalent), approved on September 4, 1997,
signed on September 15, 1997, and made effective on November 5, 1997. The two operations
are combined in this ICR because they are part of a series of closely related adjustment
operations.
Objectives
2.    The objective of SAC I was to support the Government of Georgia's (GOG) program to
consolidate stabilization, foster a strong and sustained growth recovery and reduce poverty by i)
maintaining a tight monetary program supported by an improving fiscal position; ii) streamlining
the Government sector and improving efficiency of public spending; and iii) inducing a rapid
adjustment of the productive sector to new market signals. Other objectives included: (i)
providing budgetary support to maintain the level of critical public expenditures, in particular for
infrastructure and social sectors: (ii) providing foreign exchange for the purchase of critical
imports: and (iii) provide a framework for financial assistance from other donor agencies. The
key indicators of development impact at appraisal were: (a) removal of tax exemptions and
strengthening of tax administration; (b) improvements of collections in energy payments; (c)
changes in the provision and financing of social services; (d) acceleration of privatization; (e)
restructuring of the financial sector; and (f) trade liberalization and promotion.
3.    The objective SAC II was to support the GOG's program to consolidate the stabilization
gains recently achieved and to strengthen the current economic recovery. The reform program
aims at: (a) strengthening public finance while maintaining a prudent monetary policy; (b)
developing the private sector; and (c) alleviating poverty. Verifiable success indicators included:
progress in tax revenue collection; restructuring of public spending toward social sectors; further
progress in privatization; improvements in the collection of energy payments; establishment of a



- 2 -
regulatory framework in the electricity sectors; and initial steps toward development of a capital
market. This program was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) wvhich was to
foster rapid development of the private sector by (i) promoting sectoral reforms, strengthening
the legal and regulatory framework and alleviating infrastructural bottlenecks in energy transport
and water; and (ii) supporting social sustainability and poverty alleviation by strengthening the
social safety net via improved access to health and education.]
Background
SAC I (up to approval, April 1996)
4.    Georgia declared independence on April 9, 1991 and joined the IBRD in August 1992.
Georgia was in the midst of a civil war in Abkhazia. The war continued into late 1993 with
refugees migrating to other parts of the country.
5.    When GOG secured a cease fire in Abkhazia in 1994, the transformation of the Georgian
economy could begin in eamest. Early reforms included privatizing housing, progress in
privatizing agricultural land, initiating the privatization of small scale enterprises through
auctions and leasing, price liberalization (except for food and energy), and preserving a relatively
open import regimne. Additional measures such as monetary and fiscal measures to ensure
macroeconomic stability, and deeper structural changes in the enterprise and banking sectors
were to be carried out with external assistance. IDA began to assist with the design and
development of reforms and strengthening economic management capacity beginning with an
Institution Building Credit (approved in July 1994).
6.    Early stabilization measures leading up to and during the Rehabilitation Credit were very
successful. The budget deficit was reduced to 6 percent of GDP in 1995, average monthly
inflation was reduced from 64 percent in 1994 to 3 percent in 1995, and the Georgian coupon
appreciated from 5 million to 1.3 million per US$. This stabilization created conditions
sufficient to introduce a new national currency, the Lari, on September 25, 1995, which remained
stable against the dollar at L 1.26/US$ for the period leading up to February 1996.
7.    Political developments also supported the reforms. In July 1995, the Parliament ratified a
new constitution that gave wide ranging power to the president. Georgians elected Eduard
Shevardnadze, a strong reformer, as president in November 1995.
SAC II (April 1996 until SAC II approval, September 1997)
8.    The macroeconomy further stabilized in 1996 and 1997 with the deficit reduced to 4
percent of GDP and inflation to 14 percent by the end of 1996 and averaging 0.5 percent per
month for the first half of 1997. The Lari continued stable at LI.26-1.30/US$. See Achievement
of Objectives for fi.rther details on this time period.



-3 -
Description
SAC I
9.    The program supported by SAC I concentrated on macroeconomic and public sector
priorities with a strong privatization program. SAC I was complemented by a Structural
Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit I (SATAC I) which continued implementation beyond
SAC I (see Implementation Completion Report for Institution Building Credit and Structural
Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit).
10.   SAC I addressed reforms in four major areas (as shown in the SAC I President's Report
Policy Matrix):
I.    Tight Monetary Policy
Reduce inflation
Increase range of monetary instruments
II.   Improve the Fiscal System
Maintain stability
Increase tax revenues
III.   Streamline the Government and Improve the Efficiency of Public Spending
Maintain Essential Public Functions
Governnent Pay and Employment Reform
Social Service Financing and Provision Reform
Social Insurance and Social Protection Reform
Eliminate Energy Subsidies
IV.   Adjustment of the Productive Sector
Accelerating Privatization
11.   The International Monetary Fund (IMF) took the lead on macro policy, in particular the
monetary and fiscal revenue sides, with the Bank generally supporting that part of the program
and taking the lead on the fiscal expenditure side. The total credit was SDR 41.3 million or $60
million and the IDA credit was fully disbursed in two equal tranches by the original closing date
of December 31, 1997. Project accounts were maintained by the Ministry of Finance.
SAC II
12.   SAC II covered policies in three major areas (from the SAC II President's Report Policy
Matrix):
I.    Strengthening Public Finance While Maintaining a Prudent Monetary Policy
Reduce Inflation
Expand the Range of Monetary Instruments
Improve Revenue Performance
Improve Efficiency of Public Spending
II.    Developing the Private Sector
Accelerating Privatization



- 4 -
Fostering Enterprise Governance
Developing Capital Markets
Deepening Reforms in the Energy Sector
Restructuring the Banking Sector
III.   Alleviating Poverty
Strengthening Social Assistance and Social Insurance
Reforming the Education Sector
Deepening Reforms of the Health Sector
13.   The division of labor between the Bank and the IMF was similar to that for SAC I. IDA
financing was SDR44.2 million or $60 million. The closing date was March 31, 1999. The IDA
credit was fully disbursed in two tranches. Disbursement was front loaded with the first tranche
in the amount of SDR29.5 million, or $40 million (two thirds of the credit). Project accounts
were maintained by the Ministry of Finance.
B. Achievement of Objectives
14.   SAC I bulilt on the gains of the Rehabilitation Credit. Much of the SAC I program was
completed as a prior board condition. SAC II continued the reform program of SAC I,
expanding in the areas of poverty alleviation (deepening the social assistance, education and
health reforms), and energy sector reforms.
Macroeconomic Developments
15.   The most significant development leading up to SAC I was the defeat of inflation.
Inflation was already well on its way down when SAC I began. Inflation was 6,4 74 percent in
1994, was reduced drastically in 1995 to 57.4 percent and dropped to 13.7 percent the year SAC I
was effective. I]nflation continued downward to 7.3 percent the following year, and was
estimated to be 3.0 percent for 1998. Real GDP growth turned positive in 1995 at 2.4 percent
and was in double digits for two years 1996-97. In 1998, the economy ran into difficulties from
spillover effects of the Russian crisis. Growth fell to 4 percent, the current account deficit rose to
12.7 percent of GDP and the fiscal deficit was expected to reach 4.4 percent against a target of
2.6 percent. Inflation, however, continued to decline to below 3 percent. The sources of fiscal
difficulties are described below.



- 5 -
Table 1 Selected Economic Indicators
Real GDP % change                -11.4    2.4     10.5      11.0      2.9       2.0
CPI-eop                        6,473.9   57.4     13.7      7.3      10.6      10.0
Broad money-M3 growth rate %    2,230    135        42       46      -1.0      17.0
Gov't budget balance % of GDP/a  -17.6   -7.2     -5.7     -4.8      -4.2      -2.0
Gov't tax revenues %of GDP        3.7    4.7       7.3      8.6       8.8      10.4
Balance of Payments
Exports % of GDP                        16.8      11.2     12.6     13.6      17.0
Imports % of GDP                        27.9      18.9    26.1      27.7      30.1
Gross int'l reserves-(months of          2.7      2.5      2.0       1.2       2.5
imports)
Resource Balance-%of GDP                 -11.1    -7.8    -13.5    -14.1      -13.2
eop = end of period
a - commitment basis excluding grants
Source: IMF and World Bank
Summary of Major Accomplishments Under SAC I and SAC II
16.   SAC I and II helped accomplish many structural reforms. The two adjustment operations
had essentially the same scope; new sectors were not added under SAC II.  They are
distinguished in the circumstances in which they were implemented. Under SAC I, Georgians
had little to lose from rapid reform, but under SAC II with a much more favorable, rapidly
growing economy, new private owners sought protections and reforms slowed. SAC II sought
first to preserve reforms and continue in the same vein. SAC II, however, did go considerably
deeper into reforming the energy sector.
Macroeconomic Stabilization and Balance
17.   Monetary Policy. GOG pursued tight monetary policy throughout SAC I and II with the
expected reduction in inflation noted above. Monetary policy came under pressure in late 1998
due to the crisis in Russia. The Lari appreciated strongly relative to the ruble (depreciated
against major currencies) and Georgia lost competitiveness with the largest importer of its goods.
The fall of the Lari also posed serious strains on the banking sector which held reserves against
foreign currency deposits in Lari. The mismatch between assets and liabilities severely damaged
bank equity. The NBG tightened the money supply to relieve pressure of demand for foreign
exchange. Unfortunately, fiscal problems undermined NBG's efforts and foreign reserves fell to
three weeks of imports. In terms of increasing the range of monetary instruments, GOG
introduced government securities (treasury bills) in the latter half of 1997.



-6 -
18.   Fiscal Strengthening. Revenue performance improved rapidly during 1994-97, with
revenues increasing from 3.7 percent of GDP in 1994 to 7.2 percent in 1996 and to almost 9
percent by 1997-98, because of the institution of new taxes, removal of exemptions, and better
collections.  Rev,enues did not improve, however, in 1998, which led to an substantial
accumulation of arrears. Arrears were especially large in the health and education sectors,
govermment wages and pensions. The failure to improve revenue performance was due to an
inability to enforce existing taxes on large businesses and excised goods. For example, it is
estimated that tax collection on cigarettes is about 1/20 of potential revenues. The revenue
shortfalls led to across the board expenditure cuts, and, subsequently, payments arrears. The
Georgians responded to the revenue shortfalls by eliminating value added tax (VAT') exemptions
on a number of products, increasing the taxes on petroleum products, and imnposing the
maximum 12 percent custom duty on imported wheat, natural gas and electricity.
19.   Improve the Efficiency of Public Spending. Government pay and employment reforms
were carried out in essentially two steps. The first was to reduce the bloated civil service (by 40
percent) and to raise salaries to a living wage (an increase of six-fold), although salaries are still
too low. The second step was implementing the comprehensive civil service law which
established real employment guidelines and widened the pay scale to reflect jobs of different
levels of responsibility. This good effort lost some credibility, however, because of the GOG's
inability (due to the 1998 fiscal crisis) to pay government salaries, in some cases, for several
months. It is expected that the fiscal position will improve and that the new civil service
framework will yield significant benefits.
Developing the Private Sector
20.   Price Liberalization. Price liberalization began in mid-1994. Under SAC I and II,
further price increases on basic consumer items were achieved for bread, electricily and urban
transportation, with bread fully liberalized by mid-1996.
21.   Trade Liberalization/Export Reform. Import duties remained low (the Blank and the
IMF deemed that import duties were actually too low at independence and recommended raising
the tariff to 12 percent) at 12 percent, 5 percent for selected capital goods. The GOG eliminated
most export hindrances, including the 8 percent export tax, export licenses and quotas, and ex
ante registration of export contracts. One flaw in this area was the erosion of tariff unifonnity
where basic goods tended to command lower tariffs and lobbying efforts caused tariffs to be
selectively raised.
22.   Privatization. SAC I helped accelerate privatization. Almost all small-scale enterprises
were privatized by the start of SAC II. About half of the medium to large enterprises had also
been privatized. As the privatization agency gathered improved data on firm sizes, it had a better
idea of what it was selling and larger enterprises began to be sold (especially under SAC II).
Medium and large enterprise transfers began in mid-1995 and most were transferred by
employer/employee buyouts and a mass privatization scheme that offered 35 percent of shares



-7-
through vouchers.2 To date, over 1,000 corporatized large and medium enterprises have been
privatized. This number represents roughly 90 percent of total enterprises, but there remains a
considerable value of unprivatized firms. One major early privatization was that of the State
Bread Corporation in 1996, but privatization did not really begin to concentrate on the largest
companies, e.g., ports, telecom, metal industries, until 1998. Infrastructure privatization began
with the Telasi distribution company which was sold to a strategic investor in the second half of
1998. More international investor interest will be needed to privatize the largest enterprises. The
GOG also reformed the foreign investment code to encourage this participation.
23.   Categorizing industries according to size and percent of State share of ownership helped
organize the privatization plan under SAC II. Category A enterprises were the largest (minimum
$1 million book value-103 enterprises) accounting for 40 percent of the enterprise value.
Category B assets were medium sized enterprises (total of 413). Categories C and D were
privatized enterprises in which the State still had a minority share. This categorization proved
useful in facilitating Georgian involvement in the more difficult privatizations. The GOG
instituted minimum price auctions for a period for Category B enterprises. The use of minimum
prices was not successful. Potential buyers decided not to participate in minimum price auctions,
reasoning that the GOG would follow-up with zero auctions (which the Governrment did).
Generally, enterprises sold for less than the previous minimum price at the subsequent zero
auctions.
24.   Fostering Enterprise Governance and Developing Capital Markets. The Law on
Entrepreneurs was enacted which allowed for the adjustment of accounting standards and to
establish independent share registrars. A securities law was also submitted to parliament, which
established a Securities and Exchange Commission, the issuance, registration and trading of
securities and operating a stock exchange.  The United States Agency for Intemational
Development (USAID) is funding a comprehensive regulatory framework for capital markets,
complete with a full body of securities laws and a Security and Exchange Commission (SEC).
25.   Reforms in the Energy Sector. Parliament adopted an Electricity law in June 1997.
The residential tariff was increased to a level that would cover O&M (4.5 tetri per kwh). The
tariff increases were followed up with a new tariff methodology and adopted by the Georgia
National Energy Regulatory Commission (NERC) in July 1998. Georgia also adopted a
regulatory framework governing generation transmission and distribution companies. The rapid
privatization of Telasi, a distribution company, demonstrated Georgia's commitment to foreign
investor driven privatization in the energy sector. President Order No. 403, July 5, 1998, listed
other companies to be privatized.
26.   Collection for energy bills rose from 20 percent in 1995, to 56 percent in 1996, to 65
percent in 1997. Bankruptcy proceedings were initiated against industrial consumers failing to
pay arrears according to schedule. The second tranche release criterion that collections reach 85
percent in 1998 was waived because collections rates were increasing, to 70 percent, and 85
2 The voucher scheme was an effective vehicle for privatization. However, with the secondary mnarket that developed for
vouchers, citizens who had urgent cash needs would trade vouchers which had a face value equivalent of $30, for $3-5 on the
secondary market. In the end, the 4.3 million vouchers that were issued were concentrated in the hands of 500 people.



- 8 -
percent was reevaluated as unattainable before a comprehensive restructuring of the energy
sector.
27.   Restructuring the Banking Sector. The first major initiative established the National
Bank of Georgia's (NBG) legal and regulatory oversight on commercial banks with the
Commercial Banking Law (February 1996). NBG developed power gradually by administering
SAC sponsored timetables for progress toward prudential requirements.  These special
agreements signed with former state banks in April 1996, applied to the three largest banks, two
of which improved. For the third bank, Agrobank, a restructuring plan was finalized and
endorsed by NBG. Agrobank was certified, but was in a vulnerable circumstance with the
devalued Lari and it was questionable whether the Agrobank could meet prudential financial
requirements with any further financial deterioration.
28.   Another Board condition was privatization of banks. Most banks were bought by
employees and employers. They bought the banks because they saw what power a bank had,
such as the ability to acquire a line of credit, only to redirect it without financial contr.ols and,
essentially, not have to truly intermediate the credit. The buyers did not fully consider that most
of the banks had negative net worth. They were convinced that bank buildings were very
valuable and that they could make a substantial profit.
29.   Health and Education. The expenditure side reforms reduced general government
payroll and redirected resources toward social sectors. There was radical reform of the health
care system with autonomous management of hospitals with government finance limited to basic
services. Health reforms included a restructuring of health facilities, development of a strategy
for primary health care, GOG also adopted a master plan for reorganization and privatization of
hospitals. Education reforms included preparation of a school map and a program to certify
teachers. The budget: allocations to health and education, however, fell short of the SAC II
second tranche release threshold. However, the government did improve its allocation in the last
few months of 1998 despite severe fiscal strains. The GOG also enacted a law on private
pensions. The retirement age wats increased without much resistance since people were not
collecting much anyway.
30.  In summary, during the two adjustment operations, almost all of the reforms were carried
out by the respective closing dates of December 31, 1997 and March 31, 1999. The performance
of SAC I and SAC II should be viewed as a series of operations, preceded by the Rehabilitation
Credit, and followed by a SAC III to support GOG's program of private sector led growth.
C. Implementation RPtecord and Major Factors Affecting the Project
31.   Except for the SAC II second tranche, the tranches for both credits disbursed on time or
ahead of schedule. SAC II's second tranche was delayed because of the fiscal crisis in 1998. In
terms of elapsed time to effectiveness from negotiations, both adjustment operations performed
considerably better than the country average of all projects.



- 9 -
32.   On implementation progress and development objectives, the SAC I was consistently
rated as highly satisfactory throughout the project's life. The first tranche for $30 million was
released on June 12, 1996, on schedule. The second tranche of $30 million was released on
December 30, 1996, on schedule, 6 months ahead of the official expected date.
33.   SAC  II was consistently rated satisfactory throughout implementation, both on
implementation progress and development objectives. The first tranche for $40 million was
released on November 5, 1997, about one month after the expected date. The second tranche for
$20 million was scheduled for June 30, 1998 and was released on December 21, 1998.
34.   Factors not generally subject to Government's control.  The adverse economic
situation created an opportunity to reform.  Because Georgians were already suffering
economically, they were more receptive to economic restructuring, even if it meant layoffs. A
factor that lessened the impact of the program was the riskiness with which potential foreign
investors saw Georgia. This view limited their participation in Georgia's privatization and
therefore the fiscal impact.
35.   Factors generally subject to Government control. GOG did well in assembling the
economic counterpart team and in assigning the oversight for project implementation to a very
high ranking official of the Government. In general, the Government maintained a reform-
minded approach throughout both adjustment operations. Continuity of government benefited
implementation and reform kept pace with the plan.
36.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The Ministry of Finance
(MOF) worked well with the Bank. MOF contributed to the design and implementation of a
meaningful set of reform measures that helped Georgia advance the transformation of its
economy and resume low inflation growth.
D. Project Sustainability
37.   The Bank and the GOG have set in motion a process of structural reform in the major
sectors of the Georgian economy. Sustainability of the SAC I and II initiatives as a whole is
ensured in part because many of the measures are very difficult to reverse, such as those related
to privatization, as well as energy sector and health reforms.
38.   Partial waiver of two of the ten conditions for second tranche release of SAC II
(December 1998) was not a serious concern because substantial progress was already made in the
two areas of waiver, electricity collections and budgetary allocations to the health and education
sectors. The real concern is GOG's ability to improve revenue generation. The current revenue
of 9 percent of GDP is well behind the 12 to 15 percent typically needed for Government
priorities in similar countries. Another concern is that the rate of privatization has slowed
leaving the majority of enterprise equity value still government owned (as of May 1998). The
focus on privatizing the large enterprises and the fulfillment of SAC II second tranche release
conditions during 1998 has eased concerns somewhat. Despite these concerns, overall continued
progress in implementing the objectives of SAC I and SAC II was satisfactory. Future planned
operations (see section H.) support a continued process of reform that will encourage a growing



- 10-
private sector. Recent Bank sectoral operations related to the policy areas of SAC I and II
include: the Enterprise Rehabilitation Project ($15 million-FY99), the Social Investment Fund
($20 million-FY98), and Power Rehabilitation ($52.3 million-FY97).
E. Bank Performance
39.   This section critiques the major issues of Bank performance on the basis of what was a
reasonable standard at the time and what would have been the best course in retrospect. Overall,
the two structural adjustment operations that followed the Rehabilitation credit supported
reforms in the key areas of Georgia's economy that promoted private sector-based growth.
* The Bank identified key reform areas
Inflation carme down rapidly and growth turned positive. The Bank program helped
sustain these developments by supporting the macroeconomic framework, facilitating
privatization, reforming the energy sector and improving social safety nets.
- The SAC conditions were tough, but realistic with respect to bank restructuring
The Bank perceived that banks were operating as money conduits, nolt as true
intermediaries, and some difficult measures had to be agreed to before the banking
system could be built up. The GOG first had to commit to privatizing the banking sector.
In addition, as part of an agreement, whose signing was a condition for the first tranche
release for SAC I, no deposit insurance could be offered, which would have been an
invitation to moral hazard in Georgia's banking system (as it sometimes is in even the
best-run banking systems). The Bank also wanted a 100 percent marginal reserve
requirement (on new lending) until the banks met specified criteria, a measure designed
to avoid further decline in portfolios. The second tranche release required meeting the
liquidity and capital ratios specified in timetable.
* The Bank took a hard fiscal stance
GOG was generating very little revenue at the beginning of Bank operations. The Bank
decided not ito put additional funds into Georgia so as to keep the pressure on for
generating revenue. Had GOG's revenue generation been better, the Bank could have
opted for a greater allocation for Georgia to promote greater fiscal flexibility.
* The Bank (and the IMF) misread, at first, which would be the more problematic of the large
banks and may have been too accomodating in the disposition of the Agro-Bank
Initially, the Bank (and the IMF) had ascertained that the United Bank of Georgia would
pose the most problems for banking reform. In reality, UBG proved very capable of
learning and adopting modem accounting and management practices. Rather, the Agro-
Bank turned out to be more difficult. The Bank and the IMF were, at first, impressed
with Agro-Bank and its manager who also spoke English. The Agro-Bank was not



- 11 -
permanently resolved prior to the second tranche release of SAC II. GOG pursued half
way measures to allow its continued operation.
* Coordination between the Bank and the IMF was effective in achieving stabilization and
structural reforms
The Bank was also able to work with the IMF to improve the approach to banking sector
reforms. The Bank's institution of a timetable for meeting prudential requirements
strengthened the IMF's approach of conferring a strong legal status on the NBG. Another
example was the decision to allow the merger among the top banks that would reduce the
number from 5 to 3. On the surface the measure might not have been good from a
competitive standpoint. In fact, the large banks did not have much money, and with the
proviso that no new flows would be permitted (engineered through the 100 percent
marginal reserve requirement), the merger was not detrimental to the banking sector.
* SAC II complemented the Bank's energy sector credits
The Bank's investment in adding capacity in the energy sector would not have been
sustainable without the policy side support of SAC II, in particular, tariff overhaul,
increasing collections and general commercialization and privatization of the sector.
- Additional performance indicators were needed for monitoring impact
Monitoring efforts would have been enhanced with more quantitative performance indicators
tracked systematically before during and after release of the tranches. General macroeconomic
performance indicators were useful for following the bottom line of Georgia's overall economic
performance. In the areas of privatization and revenue mobilization, for example, more specific,
component-related data could have been tracked.
40.   In summary, the Bank, together with GOG, developed a relevant reform program for a
country undergoing fundamental economic and political transformations and advanced that
program. The Bank worked well the Georgian authorities and supported the reform process with
close and frequent supervision.
F. Borrower Performance
41.   As measured by its fulfillment of most of the agreed measures of SAC I and SAC II,
GOG performance is considered satisfactory. In its LDP, the Government committed to a
detailed program of interventions and accomplished most of its objectives specified under the
two operations. GOG was successful in consolidating stabilization and in making progress in a
broad array of areas necessary to support a private sector-led economy.
42.   The borrower's performance was enhanced by assigning to the program a very high level
counterpart (advisor to the President on economic affairs), and a capable counterpart team that
leamed quickly and committed to transforming Georgia's economy. On privatization, the
Georgians were very ambitious in privatizing large numbers of enterprises, but more cautious in



- 12 -
privatizing higher value enterprises. Although GOG experimented with minimum price auctions,
when it was clear that they were not successful, the GOG promptly scheduled zero auctions and
the privatization plans proceeded with little delay.  The Government also assessed that
investment required for rehabilitating the energy sector was not available domestically and took
the necessary steps, in particular, hiring external advisors, to involve foreign investors.
43.   The MOF maintained the accounts for SAC I and II in accordance with sound accounting
practices. It was agreed that the credits would be audited within four months of Bank. request.
Government compliance with legal covenants under SAC I and II was considered satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
44.   The overall performance and outcome of SAC I and SAC II was satisfactory, as the
majority of specific measures, and therefore the major objectives, were achieved and assessed to
be sustainable. This rating is consistent with the rating by EC4C2 (for SAC I) and by ECSPE
(for SAC II) of meeting development objectives (Form 590) by close (also Satisfactory).
Because they were not investment operations, calculation of benefits in terms of net present
value and economic rates of return for either operation is not applicable.
H. Future Operations
45.   SAC I and SAC II have not yet been followed by further adjustment operations, but SAC
III is under discussion with GOG and approval is planned for the end of FY99. SATAC II is
ongoing and supports equipment and consulting needs for the reform program.
I. Key Lessons Learned
46.   The main lessons learned are:
* Sustaining fiscal reform. Progress in fiscal reform can be hampered by external factors. In
1998, the collapse of the Russian economy created severe fiscal strains for Georgia including
arrears to health anad education. By early 1999, Georgia was beginning to restore funds to
health and education.
* Further gains in resource mobilization. As revenue mobilization increases, as it has in
Georgia since 1994 (3.7 to 9 percent of GDP), it becomes more difficult to achieve incremental
tax revenue. Collections capability should therefore be emphasized until tax compliance is
achieved.
* High level counterpart. The Bank should always investigate whether it is possible to enlist
the support of individuals in top management in the Government who will champion the
program that the Bank supports. Having such an ally is a great advantage for implementation
of reforms, trouble shooting, resource mobilization, etc.



- 13 -
* The power of the LDP. Specific measures in the LDP can give real power and credibility to
fledgling institutions. For instance, the financial supervisory provisions in the LDP helped
supervisors from NBG gain needed access to bank records.
* Continuity of SAC teams. It is advantageous to maintain project team continuity to achieve
greater ownership. There is also less rehashing of agreements and smoother implementation.
*  Law is not power. Power cannot be created by conferring a legal status on an institution. In
Georgia it was not sufficient to invest NBG with legal supervisory and regulatory power over
powerful banks. Such banks could ignore legal authority in the absence of enforcement.
Credibility of legal status and, therefore, power can be built with gradual measures tied to fund
release as was done with the timetable of meeting prudential targets under the SACs.
* Vouchers do not guarantee democracy in ownership. Although vouchers can facilitate
transfer of entities to the private sector, the rise of a secondary market in vouchers can
concentrate them in the hands of a few. This result defeats the purpose of vouchers which is to
give all citizens the opportunity to redeem an equal claim to publicly owned entities. The
secondary market for vouchers exploited most participants' short-term need for cash and
enabled them to sell at a heavy discount. One action that might have thwarted the concentration
of vouchers in the hands of a few would have been a more comprehensive list of companies to
come up for auction, that was available farther in advance. Voucher holders would have had a
better picture of what their vouchers could have been used for.
* Keeping supervision costs down. Major costs of airfare, travel time, etc., can be distributed
over not only the SAC operation, but also projects in neighboring countries (Armenia).
* Benefits of explaining trade liberalization are high. It is sometimes the case that
liberalization is not pursued because the benefits are not made clear. What to some people is
obvious, to others is not. Contacts with parliamentarians, business leaders, etc., and making
the case for liberalizing, and stressing the costs of not liberalizing, was effective under the
adjustment operations.
*  Frequent and close supervision for new borrowers. Intensive supervision is a key success
factor for projects in new member countries which are unfamiliar with Bank operations and
have not yet developed a good level of coordination needed to implement. Georgia required
close and frequent Bank consultations as were provided by the supervision teamns.



- 14 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated andActual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Studies Included in Project
Table 7A:  Project Costs
Table 7B:  Project Financing
Table 8:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 1:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Missions



- 15-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (for SAC I and II)
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial      Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
T                0)0 ()
Macro Policies                      0               7        
Sector Policies                                                     El 0
Financial Objectives               El                               El               El
Institutional Development                         F                 E                El
Physical Objectives                                E                E l              [23
Poverty Reduction                                                                    El
Gender Issues                       a                l              0                 3
Other Social Objectives                                                              El
Environmental Objectives                                            El               Ix]
Public Sector Management                           El 0                              El
Private Sector Development          x              E                E                 a
Other (specify)                    i:              a                a                i
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory            Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                     (1)                       (V')
Identification                                             [E [l
Preparation Assistance                                                                El  
Appraisal                          El                                                El
Supervision                        E                                                 El



- 16 -
(Continued)
Highly
D. Borrower Performance          Satisfactory            Satisfactory             De.ficient
(V)                   (V)                      (1/)
Preparation                      r                                              I E
Implementation                    I                    IZ                       i
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                            ~~~~~~~~~Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title         Purpose             Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. Institution Building  Strengthen public             FY 95          Closed
Credit                 institutions
1. Rehabilitation Credit  Economic stabilization      FY 95           Closed
and reform
Following operations
1. Structural Adj. TA  Technical support for          FY 96           Closes June 99
Credit I               GOA refo:rm program
and SAC I
2. Structural Adj. TA  Technical support for           FY 97           Under Implementation
Credit II               SAC II and III
3. Structural Adj. Credit Reduce macroeconomic         FY 99           To Be Approved
III                    imbalances and provide
incentives for private
sector development



-17-
Table 3.A: SAC I Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned         Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Preparation                                                                        9/95
Appraisal                                                                         12/95
Negotiations                                                                       2/96
Letter of Development/Sector Policy                                                3/96
Board Presentation                                      4/18/96                 4/18/96
Signing                                                                         4/26/96
Effectiveness                                            5/3/96                 6/12/96
First Tranche Release                                                           6/12/96
Second Tranche Release                                                         12/30/96
Project Completion                                                              6/30/97
Credit Closing                                         12/31/97                12/31/97
Table 3.B: SAC II Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Preparation                                                                      2-3/97
Appraisal                                                                        5-6/97
Negotiations                                                                    7/31/97
Letter of Development/Sector Policy                                              8/8/97
Board Presentation                                       9/9/97                  9/4/97
Signing                                                                         9/15/97
Effectiveness                                           9/22/97                 11/5/97
First Tranche Release                                                           11/5/97.
Second Tranche Release                                                         12/22/98
Project Completion                                                             12/31/98
Loan Closing                                           12/31/98                 3/31/99



- 18-
Table 4.A: SAC I Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate              30         60
Actual                          30         60
Actual as % of estimate        100        100
Date of final disbursement           12/30/96
Note: Actual dollar amount disbursed was $59.6 million because of fluctuation of US$ vis-a-vis the SDR in which
credit was denominated.
Table 4.B: SAC II Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate              40          60
Actual                          40          60
Actual as % of estimate        100         100
Date of final disbursement            12/22/98
Note: Actual dollar amount disbursed was $61.3 million because of fluctuation of US$ vis-a-vis the SDR in which
credit was denominated.



- 19 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for SAC I and SAC II Project Implementation
Estimated                   Actual
I. Key implementation indicators in PAD, Modified, etc.
For all indicators see Policy Matrix-Annex B and Tranche Release Measures-Annex C
Table 6: Key Indicators for SAC I and SAC II Project Operation
Estimated                   Actual
1. Key operation indicators in PAD, Modified, etc.
For all indicators see Policy Matrix-Annex B and Tranche Release Measures-Annex C
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                           Purpose   as   defined   at Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. NO STUDIES



20 -
Table 8.A: 1. SAC I Project Costs
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
Item                                 Local Foreign      Total       Local Foreign      Total
costs   costs                  costs    costs
I.BoP Assistance                        0      60         60            0       60        60
Total                                    0      60        60            0       60        60
Table 8.A:2. SAC II Project Costs
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimlates
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
Item                                 Local Foreign      Total       Local Foreign      Total
costs   costs                  costs    costs
1.BoP Assistance                        0      60         60            0       60       60
Total                                    0      60        60            0       60        60



- 21 -
Table 8B:1. SAC I Project Financing
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
Item                                Local Foreign      Total       Local Foreign      Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
IDA                                     0      60        60            0       60        60
Total                                   0      60        60            0       60        60
Table 8B:2. SAC II Project Financing
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
Item                                Local Foreign      Total       Local Foreign      Total
costs   costs                 costs   costs
IDA                                     0      60        60            0       60        60
Total                                   0      60        60            0       60        60
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant  Present Original    Revised    Description of Covenant        Comments
Agreement   Section  Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
SAC I       4.01     1         C
Credit
SAC It      4.01     1         C
Credit
Covenant types:                                                                        Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                            8. = Indigenous people                C = covenant complied with
2.  Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD  complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                10. = Project implementation not covered  CP =complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds         by categories 1-9                   NC = not complied with
4. =Counterpart funding                         I1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                      regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                   13. = Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1 .                                  FULL COMPLIANCE
2.
Table 12A: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs for SAC I
Planned                  Revised                        Actual
Stage of project cycle         Weeks       US$        Weeks              US$         Weeks            US$
Preparation to Appraisal            19     48.4         60.5            131.0           60.5         131.0
Appraisal                          35      83.3                                            0           0.2
Negotiations through Board         7.5     17.9         16.6              36.7          16.6          36.7
approval
Supervision                        25      62.9         47.9            117.8           48.9         119.6
Completion                          2       2.5            2              2.5            1.5           2.8
Total                     88.5   215.0           127            288.0          127.5         290.3



- 23 -
Table 12B: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs for SAC II
Planned                 Revised                      Actual
Stage of project cycle        Weeks    US$          Weeks             US$         Weeks           US$
Preparation to Appraisal          25     53.8         41.1           108.5          51.1         157.1
Appraisal
Negotiations through Board      10.7    33.8          12.4            36,1          12.4          36.2
approval
Supervision                     30.3    79.9          57.8           108.4          65.6         104.4
Completion                                                                           1.5           2.7
Total                     66    167.5        114.8           257.0         130.6         300.5
Table 13.A: Bank Resources: Missions-SAC I
Performnance Rating2    Typesof
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm. Problemso
Year   Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through Appraisal           9/95      6       11   CE, CO, E, F,
PS,S
12/95     6       16   DC, CE, CO, F,
S,PS
Appraisal through Board     2/96      4       9    CE, CO, F, PS
approval
Supervision                06/96      6       12   CE, CO, MS, PS,       S           HS
s
10/96     4       13   CE, E, F, PS,         S           HS
Completion                 12/96      --     --                          S           HS
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
CE = Country Economist                  HS = Highly Satisfactory         P = Policy
CO = Country Economist                  S = Satisfactory
DC = Division Chief
E = Energy Specialist
F = Financial Sector Specialist
MS = Municipal Specialist
PS = Private Sector Develop. Specialist
S = Social Sectors Specialist



- 24 -
Table 13.B: Bank Resources: Missions-SAC II
Performance Rating       T
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.        Developm   Problemso
Year   Persons  Field                       status       objectives
Through Appraisal           02/97      7       14   CE, CO, DC, F,
S, PS
05/97      6      12   CE, CO, E, F,
PS, S
Appraisal through Board     07/97      7       13   CE, CO, DC, E,
approval                                            F, S PS
Supervision                 09/97      6       11   CE, CO, E, F,         S             S
PS, S
01/98      5      16   CE, E, F, PS, S        U             S       P
Completion                  12/98      --      --                          S            S
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
A   Agriculture Specialist:             HS = Highly Satisfactory          P = Policy
CD  Country Director                     S = Satisfactory
CE  Country Economist
CO  Country Economist
DC  Division Chief
E = Energy Specialist
F = Financial Sector Specialist
MS = Municipal Specialist
PS = Private Sector Develop. Specialist
S = Social Sectors Special:ist



APPENDIX A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



bbJ^dO)f;CD3aPM2f                        MINISTRY  OF   FINANCE
'S06b6 )qS   sanfiob6!XM                              OF  GEORGIA
3.nm6oabn, 380062, .ba6ndnb d.N 70         70, I.Abashidze str,380062, Tbilisi, Georgia
62x: 226805 226806                         Tel:(7-995-32) 226805; 226806
aj.sjbo: 292368; 62rjrJa 212348 MOFIN       Fax:(7-995-32)292368;Telex:212348 MOFIN
N _19..
June 4, 1999                                              Annex A Page 1 of 3
GEORGIA
GOVERNMENT'S EVALUATION REPORT ON
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28470-GE
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
Credit No. 29830-GE
Submitted as a Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report
The first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) in the amount of SDR41.3 million
(equivalent to $60 million) and the second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) in the amount
of SDR44.2 million (equivalent to $60 million) was used by the Government of Georgia to
achieve economic stabilization and systematic reform in Georgia during June 12, 1996 -
December 31, 1997 and November 5, 1997 - March 31, 1999 respectively.
The funds disbursed under the SAC I were used to address the reforms in four major
areas:
1. To maintain tight monetary policy though reduction of the inflation and increase in
the range of monetary instruments;
2. To improve the fiscal system by maintaining stability and mobilizing more tax
revenues;
3. To streamline the Government and improve the efficiency of public spending through
maintaining the essential public functions, undertaking reforms in the Government



Annex A Page 2 of 3
4. pay and employment ]policies, social service financing and provision, social insurance
and protection policies, and elimination of energy subsidies;
5. To adjust the productive sector by accelerating the privatization process.
The funds disbursed under the SAC II were used to address the reforns in three major
areas:
1. To strengthen public finance while maintaining a prudent monetary policy through
further reduction of the inflation and expansion of monetary instruments,
improvenments in the revenue performance and public spending efficiency;
2. To develop the Private Sector through further acceleration of the privatization
process, fostering enterprise governance, developing capital markets, deepening
reforms in the Energy Sector, and restructuring the Banking Sector;
3. To achieve poverty alleviation through strengthening social assistance and social
insurance, and reforming the Education and Health Sectors.
The overall evaluation of the impact of these two credits is very positive, and the
Government basically agrees with the Bank's assessment of the credits' implementation, as
reflected in ICRs. In particular, we would like to outline, that the combination of conditionalities
for the both credits, sometimes very tough given a volatile political and economic environment,
permitted Georgia to (i) consolidate stabilization, (ii) lay grounds to private sector development
and thus foster eccnomic recovery, and (iii) address the issue of poverty reduction and
developing safety nets.
Although the funds under these credits have constituted a non-qualified budget support,
not bound to any specific project, they contributed to structural reforming of Georgian economy
as a whole, and specific sectors in particular. Some key lessons which the Government took
from these operations, bear stressing:
* Support: The structural reform should have a top-level ownership and direction, and this
should be frequently and publicly articulated. The reforms have a greater chance of successful
implementation. To secure its reform-oriented approach the Government of Georgia has
assembled strong coumterpart team headed by the Advisor to the President on economic affairs
and has entrusted high-ranking dedicated officials to supervise the program implementaLtion.
*  Selectivity: The reforms should concentrate on critical aspects or priorities. Because of the
limited institutional capacity and budget constraints, selectivity offers a better chance of success.
This is well manifested by the emphasis on privatization under SACI, or energy seclor reform
under the SACII.



Annex A Page 3 of 3
* Sustainability: Structural reform is long-term in character, and reform strategy will have
greater chance of success if it is sustainable over the longer term. In this respect, the inability of
the Government to meet the target of improving electricity collections, which resulted in partial
waiver of this requirement, was caused mainly by the limited institutional and enforcement
capacities of the power sector. Thus this condition could not be achieved without restructuring
the industry as a whole.
* Sequencing: Deciding on a sequencing which is politically feasible and administratively
realistic will again make best use of limited capacity. This was the case with some of the second
tranche conditions for the SACII. For example, although the condition on enacting Private
Pension Law was met, it did not serve exactly the role it was perceived to serve due to
unfavorable timing. With the adverse external shock in the second half of 1998 and severe fiscal
crisis, as well as low financial intermediation in the country, the need for private pension
schemes was overshadowed by the urgent necessity to address the first pillar and thus provide
minimum social protections to pensioners.
At the end, we would like to outline once again the importance of the Bank's adjustment
operations for our country. Assuming responsibility for this or that policy-reform objective, the
Government not only addresses specific issues, but increases its capacity to and ability to
manage the more complicated aspects of the reform process.



APPENDIX B
POLICY MATRIX MAY 1999



Annex B       Page I of 11
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                   Current Status                          Issues                       SAC III Measures                    Timetable
A. Reduce Macroeconomic
Imbalances
Improve Revenue Mobilization    Hiring of a private company to take  Customs revenue collection highly  Launch the tender process, select best    Hiring process will be
over significant custom functions  constrained by weak control of custom    bidder and conclude negotiation  completed in May 1999
underway                          territory, porous borders, weak
enforcement capacity and poor control
of transit traffic
Administrative reorganization, of tax    Tax revenue collection highly  Establish a steering committee headed    March1999
administration, donor-funded training   constrained by ineffective management  by the chairman STDG with  (Done)
and computerization programs      structure, lack of strategic focus on  representation from technical assistance
underway                          large taxpayers, inaccurate registration,  providers to coordinate and monitor
weak enforcement capacity, poor job    technical assistance
definitions, and lack of efficiency
transparency and accountability    Introduce a new management structure   June 1999
Restructure STDG along functional
lines to separate assessment, collection
and audit
All tax administration employees to  May 1999
submit their declarations of income and
assets.
Strengthen the Large Taxpayers      March 1999
Inspectorate (LTI) to function as a full   (Done)
serve tax office for the largest taxpayers
Expand the coverage of the LTI to cover  July 1999
50 percent of STDG revenues
Audit list of outstanding debts, and  April 1999
prioritize by size and likelihood of quick  (underway)
recovery
Implement the program of work to    Continuous
expand the tax base and reduce tax
arrears



Annex B       Page 2 of 11
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                   Current Status                          Issues                       SAC III Measures                    Timetable
Strengthen expenditure       Reorganization of Ministry of Finance  Inadequate organizational and  Institutional strengthening of the   April 1999
Management                   along functional lines underway.   management structure in the Ministry    Ministry of Finance. Issue agreed
Computer data-base accounting for all  of Finance (MOF). Lack of     regulations/instructions regarding (i)
revenue receipts and disbursement of   management accountability or   aims and objectives for the MOF; (ii)
expenditures set up in Treasury.  performance management within the    formation of a Policy/Strategy Group
Single Treasury bank account      Ministry. Poor coordination between    within the Ministry; (iii) nomination of
established in NBG torccci've all  depatiiients. inequitable revenue  a senior person from the MOF to be
monies paid to the State. New     allocation between spending units.  responsible for institutional reform and
processes for agreeing monthly    Difficulties in reconciling revenue  for liaising with the CSB; (iv) joint
spending totals between Treasury and   collection and assessment. Revenue  work between the MOF and the CSB on
spending ministries and their sub-units  payments put to short term use by  reform issues; and (v) more effective
established. All invoices for goods  banks before being made available to    use of technical advice
and services cleared through Treasury   Treasury. Ad hoc development of new
so that they can be reconciled against  technology for financial management    Complete reorganization of MOF.  June 1999
appropriate expenditure plans. New  within the ministry and associated  Establish the new structure defining the
system of allocating revenue to   bodies (tax and customs)            responsibilities of each
expenditure plans based on a                                          department/division
computerized matrix is being
introduced. Matrix operates on two                                   Establish job definitions for each post.    May 1999
parameters: Economic and functional                                  Implement new management
categories                                                            performance monitoring system setting
objectives and performance targets
Treasury and MOF staff to work      May 1999
together to establish lines of
accountability within spending
ministries/entities by identifying
accounting officers and calling for
reports with the objective of
establishing an effective expenditure
monitoring mechanism first for health
education and poverty benefit and then
for overall budget
Establish three coordinating groups  May 1999
(data management, expenditure
| _________________________   l ______________________________  l ___________________________    _  management, borrowing  and  debt) borrowing_and_debt)



Annex B    Page 3 of 11
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                   Current Status                         Issues                       SAC III Measures                   Timetable
Establishment and strengthening of the   May 1999
Personal Office of the Minister of
Finance. Issue orders on the basis of
agreed recommendations on (i) the
functions and structure of the Office; (ii)
broad functional division of
responsibilities of structural units and
staff of the Office; (iii) staffing levels
for the Office; (iv) implementing
regulations; and (v) transparent
procedures for recruitment of the staff
Complete staff recruitment and training   June 1999
for Personal office of the Minister
Prepare a global strategy and action plan  September 1999
with defined benchmarks on use of new
technology for financial management to
ensure proper interface between
computer systems
Complete implementation of the action   December 2000
plan
Ensure the provision of basic  Economic categories include primary   Inadequate budgetary execution  Use the computerized matrix to   Continuous
social services              core allocations, Non-core allocations   accumulation of arrears to health and    implement the new system of allocating
and capital allocations. Functional  education spending units. Inadequate   revenues to expenditure plans
categories (representing spending  budgetary allocation and execution for
ministries and their sub-units) grouped  the poverty benefit        Include health, education and poverty    March 1999
in three priority zones. Matrix                                      benefit within the primary core
provides protocol operation to ensure                                allocation category. Allocate 7.3
allocation to priority expenditure.                                  percent of the overall consolidated 1999
budget to the health sector and 13
percent to the education sector.
Allocate 14.3 million lari to the poverty
benefit



Annex B       Page 4 of 11
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                    Current Status                            Issues                       SAC III Measures                     Timetable
Implement the special monitoring     Continuous
mechanism for social expenditures
Remain current in budgetary execution    1999-2000
of the health, education and poverty
benefit expenditures
B. Creating an Environment
Favorable to Private Sector
Development
Enhance the business          Law on licensing under preparation, to  There are more than 300 licenses. The   Submit to Parliament a new Law on  April 1999
environment                   be followed by laws on fees,        regulatory burden of the existing   Licensing satisfactory to the IDA     (Done)
certification and accreditation    regime is a hindrance to private sector
Introduce a simplified and                                        development, promotes rent-seeking,    Submit Law on Fees to parliament   June 1999
transparent licensing regime                                      and reduces collection of budgetary  satisfactory to IDA
revenues
Promulgate a set of procedures       May 1999
satisfactory to IDA to implement the
Law on Licensing
Develop interim regulations for      June 1999
formerly licensed activities that are to
be made subject to non-licensing forms
of state regulation
Submission by ministries of draft    July 1999
licensing regulations to the Ministry of
Justice
Drafting of procedures for maintenance   July 1999
of the Licensing Registry
Conduct baseline survey to measure   September 1999
existing burden of licensing
Promulgate agreed requirements for   August 1999
.___________________________ ._______________________________  _________________________________   form    and  contents  of  annual reports on



Annex B       Page 5 of II
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                    Current Status                          Issues                       SAC III Measures                     Timetable
licensing to be furnished (a) by the
implementing ministries to the Ministry
of Justice and (b) by the Ministry of
Justice to Parliament and President
Adoption of annual reporting         August 1999
requirements through appropriate
Presidential Decree
Complete training of Ministry of Justice   September 1999
and other Ministry personnel in new
Law and regulations
Follow-up survey to measure impact of   December 1999 and every
licensing reform                    three months thereafter
Develop principles on which to base  June 1999
laws on Certification and Accreditation
to follow up Law on Licensing
Draft and submit to Parliament Laws on   December 1999
Certification and Accreditation
Introduce a transparent regime to  New law on State Procurement  Ad-hoc and non transparent          Enactment of new law on State        December 1998
regulate state procurement,   adopted in December 1998           procurement practices               Procurement satisfactory to the IDA  (Done)
control procurement
expenditures, and enable private                                                                     Issue implementing regulations       June 1999
companies to compete for                                                                             satisfactory to IDA
Government orders on a level
playing field                                                                                        Issue a Presidential Decree appointing    April 1999
the Director of the new Department of    (Done)
State Procurement and approve
regulations of the Department
Complete competitive recruitment of  End-June 1999
Department's other staff
Complete staff training for Department   September 1999
of State Procurement



Annex B       Page 6 of 11
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                    Current Status                          Issues                        SAC III Measures                    Timetable
Develop and promulgate country-      September 1999
specific bidding documents
Identify and train staff of implementing   July-September 1999
ministries and regional/local procuring
agencies
Identify three largest procuring agencies  September 1999
at central and local levels, and for each,
ensure that at least one procurement is
done according to the new procedures
by December 1999
Establish and apply other benchmarks to  December 1999
ministries with large procurement
budgets, to monitor the implementation
of the new procurement regime
Reduce cost of entry, especially   Law on Entrepreneurs stipulates  Current registration system is not  Eliminate the requirement to obtain a  May 5, 1999
for small business           registration steps and procedures   conform to dispositions under the law    stamp/seal from the local police
Eliminate the regulation of the NBG  May 5, 1999
prohibiting commercial banks to open
new account for new business without a
seal
Eliminate the active role of the    May 5, 1999
Department of Statistics in the
registration process



Annex B       Page 7 of 11
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                   Current Status                          Issues                       SAC III Measures                    Timetable
C. Reform Land Ownership
Stimulate agricultural production  Two Laws govern the transfer of  The law "On Administration and  Start registration of privatized    November 1998
and the development of real  ownership rights over land were    Disposition of State-owned Non-    agricultural and enterprise land     (Done)
estate and financial markets  enacted in 1998:                  agricultural Land" presents several
Law "On Declaration of Private    shortcomings and may give rise to   Amend the law "On Administration and   Mid-May 1999
ownership of Non-agricultural Land in  conflict of interests          Disposition of State-owned Non-
Use of Physical and Private legal                                     agricultural Land" to promote
Person."; and law "On Administration                                  privatization over leasing, provide for
and Disposition of State-owned Non-                                  the organization of future privatization
agricultural land."                                                  through a competitive process, and
enhance transparency by carefully
defining the privatization mechanism
and delimiting the roles of the relevant
public bodies. Adopt implementing
regulations satisfactory to IDA.
Issue regulations and operating     June 1999
procedures for agricultural land titling
registration system
D. Divestiture From
Productive Activities
Promoting Private Participation   Government strategies for     Inconsistency between Privatization  Amend Privatization Law to permit  December 1998
in Infrastructure            infrastructure privatization (e.g.,  Law and Decree on Strategic Plan for   privatization of:              (Done)
energy, telecommunications, Poti port,  Privatization                 *   Telecommunications
railways) are under development                                       *   Postal services
*   Radio and television broadcasting
*   Railways
*   Water and sanitation systems
*   Airports
*   Gas distribution pipelines
*   Ports
*   Roads (with parallel state roads)
1 0-year maximum term for leases and    Amend relevant laws or regulations to    End-July 1999
required minimum annual payments of   eliminate maximum lease terms and
10% of remaining book value could  minimum payments
impede concession agreements for



Annex B       Page 8 of II
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                   Current Status                           Issues                        SAC III Measures                    Timetable
infrastructure projects
Facilitating Overall Privatization
Program
To provide adequate           Efforts underway to improve        Need for better coordination between    Create a Permanent Oversight     September 1998
coordination and encouragement  coordination and public          line ministries and MINSPM          Committee - including MINSPM,        (done)
for potential investors       information/marketing                                                  MOF, President's office on regular basis
and line ministers as needed - to secure
cooperation and support from all official
bodies
Potential investors may need more time  Amend tender procedures for major  March 1999
to conduct due diligence and prepare    enterprises likely to be of interest to  (done)
investment proposals               foreign investors, allowing up to 4
months for potential investors to submit
proposals
Need for more extensive dissemination   Expand public information/marketing  December 1998
of informnation on privatization    efforts to include regular advertisements  (Continuous)
opportunities                       in national newspapers, press
conferences, television, internet, and
foreign and overseas embassies
Prepare privatization strategies with  (ongoing)
adequate treatment of regulatory and
privatization policies for all
infrastructure sub-sectors, before
initiating the transaction process
Completing Privatization of
Medium/Large (Non-
Infrastructure) Enterprises
To complete the transfer of                                      Private sector is better able to derive  Complete "zero price" bidding for 2X4    March 1999
viable enterprises and productive                                and increase value from share       companies                            (done)
assets to private-sector owners                                  ownership. Consistent over-estimation
and managers as rapidly,                                         of share values (e.g., 20x) results in  Announce and provide results to share    March 1999



Annex B       Page 9 of 11
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                   Current Status                          Issues                       SAC III Measures                    Timetable
transparently, and profitably as                                repeated auctions/lenders. Auction  registrars                          (done)
possible       .                                                prices have averaged 5% of book value
Complete "zero price" bidding for an  June 30, 1999
additional 60 companies (32 are already
completed)
Announce and provide results to share   June 30, 1999
registrars
Privatization proceeds have been
diminished by the following:
* Non-inclusion of land with
enterprise sales
*   Hidden liabilities             NINSPM and MOP will (a) limit an     ongoing
enterprise's maximum liabilities to
those known at the time of the
privatization transaction, (b) assume
responsibility for hidden or excess
liabilities, and (c) act to control creation
of additional liabilities and asset
stripping at enterprises.
Inadequate capacity within MINSPM  MINSPM will create a Resolution Unit   May 5, 1999
to assess enterprise viability and  within MINSPM to sell assets and settle
liquidate non-viable enterprises through  liabilities for companies that are not
asset sales                        viable or for which there is no investor
interest.
Need for structured and purposeful  MINSPM commitment to a time-bound
progress on the privatization of Tier I    schedule for privatizing Tier I
companies                          companies:
*   Assess and categorize each as (a)    May 15, 1999
viable and suitable for tendering as
is; (b) partly viable, but with



Annex B       Page 10 of 1I
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                   Current Status                           Issues                        SAC III Measures                    Timetable
substantial excess assets; or (c)
non-viable
*   For viable/suitable companies,  July 30, 1999
issue tenders to pre-identified
potential investors and/or advertise
requests for proposals. The tender
package may provide only non-
binding guidelines (e.g., for
investment and employment
guarantees)
*   For partly viable/excess assets  August 30, 1999
companies, "carve out" excess
assets and associated liabilities and
assign these to the Resolution Unit.
Enterprise preparation will be
limited to this "carve out." The
Government will not engage in
operational restructuring or
additional investment
*   For non-viable companies, all   May 30, 1999
assets/liabilities will be assigned to
the Resolution Unit
*   Following "carve ouf' of        December 1, 1999
assets/liabilities, remaining viable
enterprises will be tendered
*   All offers will have been received.
Companies for which no offers are  December 7, 1999
received will be assigned for
auction
*   Conclude tender negotiations or
assign company shares for auction.  January 30, 2000
Potential investor from an
unsuccessful tender negotiation
would be precluded from
subsequent auction
- At lcast 20 comipaniies wit ll ave  February 28, 2000
been privatized by tender, auction, Feray2,00
or asset sale/liquidation



Annex B       Page 11 of 11
Georgia: Policy Matrix -May 1999
Objectives                    Current Status                             Issues                        SAC III Measures                     Timetable
Need for timely progress toward      MINSPM commitment to a time-bound
privatization for Tier ll companies  program for privatizing Tier II
companies:
*   Special auctions announced        May 15, 1999
*   Bidding begins                    June 15, 1999
*   Completion of "zero price"        August 1, 1999
auctionsfor 15 companies
*   For successful companies, auction    August 15, 1999
results publicized and forwarded to
share registrars
*   Remaining companies have been     December 31, 1999
privatized by auction or asset
sale/liquidation
The Ministry will submit a quarterly  Continuous
implementation report detailing the
progress made on the program through
that date.
Improve the efficiency and     Hospital master Plan under          Overcapacity and lack of efficiency in    Adopt a Hospital master Plan     End-June 1999
quality of health infrastructure    preparation                    the health sector                    satisfactory to IDA
and services by optimizing the
use of existing resources                                                                                Implement the first phase of the action    End-June 2000
plan



APPENDIX C
TRANCHE RELEASE MEASURES FOR SAC I



Annex C Page I of 4
Tranche Release Conditions for SAC I
The Government's program of structural reform to be supported by SAC I Credit was
outlined in the Letter of Development Policy. The structural reform program described in
the Letter complemented the macroeconomic stabilization program supported by the
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) approved by the Executive Board of the
IMF on February 28, 1996.
First Tranche
The measures which were taken by the Government as a result of agreements reached
during preparation of the proposed Credit were:
Allocation of Public Expenditures
* The share of public expenditures allocated to both health and education in the 1996
state budget has been increased to reach about 7% for health and 8% for education.
Education
* A plan of action for the education sector was adopted. This plan gives priority in the
allocation of public expenditures to basic education and targeted population groups,
fosters the creation of private schools and the participation of families in the
financing of education, encourages local initiatives for staff compensation, and sets
targets for reducing the number of educational personnel paid out of public budgets
and for modifying the pay structure.
Social Protection
D  The retirement age has been increased from 60 to 65 for men and from 55 to 60 for
women.
*  The contribution rate to the Employment Fund has been reduced by 2 percentage
points. Spending from the Fund is now limited to unemployment benefits and
operating costs; all other programs have been discontinued.  In addition, the
contribution rate to the United Fund for Social Security (in the non-budgetary sector)
has been reduced by 8 percentage points.
Eliminating Energy Subsidies
* In October 1995, the Government created a Special Commission on Energy
Payments, which is authorized to take steps to improve collection of payments. A
monitoring system with monthly reporting has been established and the Chairman of
the Commission has issued an order to Sakenergo and the distribution companies to
ensure timely collection of the necessary data.



Annex C Page 2 of 4
Sakenergo's use of imported fuel and power is now limited to arrangements that
clearly specify the price and repayment terms in advance. Imports are allowed only
to the extent that Sakenergo has sufficient funds to finance their cash costs on a
current basis. A special account has been set up with electricity payment collections
as primary source of funding. Borrowed funds will not exceed US$6 million at any
point of time and will not benefit from government guarantee.
Privatization and Enterprise Reform
*  A decree amending resolution #249 has been issued and reduces the number of
enterprises which will remain 100 percent state-owned.
*  A total of 6,700 small enterprises and 125 medium- and large-scale enterprises have
been privatized.
*  Guidelines and procedures to be applied to auctions and tenders for the sale of
residual shares of medium- and large-scale enterprises have been issued.
*  The Ministiy of Finance and the Ministry of State Property Management have
established procedures for authorizing private sector entities to operate private share
registries.
*  All retail units and small bakeries of the State Bread Corporation have been
privatized.
Land Reform
* A law on land ownership defining the legal framework for transactions related to land
including sale, lease and inheritance has been adopted by Parliament.
Financial Sector
*  The privatization of former state-owned banks has been completed.  The direct
ownership of the government has been reduced to zero and the indirect ownership
through state-owned enterprises has been reduced to less than 20 percent.
*  All commercial banks have been notified of the certification program and inf,"ormed
that the activities of non-complying banks will be restricted until existing capital,
reserve and other prudential requirements are satisfied. Payment of dividends by
non-complying banks will be prevented.
Trade
* The tariff rate on barter trade has been unified with the rate for other imports (12%).



Annex C Page 3 of 4
* A decree has been issued eliminating prohibitions on the export of all products, with
the exceptions of antiquities and artwork of museum value, weapons, and metal scrap.
* A decree has been issued eliminating all requirements for licensing exports, with the
exceptions of 1) materials for mineralogical, biological, archaeological,
paleontological, ethnographic and numismatic collections; 2) seeds of Caucasian fir
trees; 3) timber and logs; and 4) raw materials for medicines of animal or vegetal
origin. Licenses for export of logs and timber will be given automatically upon
demonstration that the trees were cut in accordance with conservation regulations. As
a transitional measure, a non-restrictive mechanism of ex ante registration of export
contracts is set up for five products.
Agreement on a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor progress toward meeting
NBG prudential requirements for the three major non-complying banks was a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
Second Tranche
Proposed Second Tranche conditions were as follows:
* Comply satisfactorily with the collection targets for electricity at the end-consumer
level, and between Sakenergo and the distribution companies, as agreed with IDA
(see para. 49).
- Submit to Parliament legislation regulating voluntary private pension schemes.
- Complete the privatization or initiation of liquidation of all 7,200 small enterprises
and of an additional 200 medium- and large-scale enterprises.
- Amend the following decrees: #875 (December 26, 1994; #22 (January 28, 1995);
#81 (February 17, 1995); #12 (February 17, 1995); #248 (May 10, 1995); #166 (May
14, 1995); #228 (June 11, 1995); and #303 (August 7, 1995), to allow privatization of
all enterprises listed in the above decrees except for those in which the Government
would keep 51 percent of shares for reasons of national security.
*  Offer for sale all remaining bakeries and at least 10 mills of the State Bread
Corporation; liberalize the price of bread and remove profit margin controls on flour
and grain.
* Make satisfactory progress in the distribution of the land that remains to be
privatized; establish the legal framework for land titling and land registration; and
adopt procedures, satisfactory to IDA, for leases to make remaining public land
available for private use.
*  Adhere satisfactorily to timetables for compliance with prudential ratios for the three
major banks (or impose appropriate penalties).



Annex C Page 4 of 4
* Eliminate ex ante registration requirements of export contracts.
* Amend the code governing foreign investment to introduce a system of expeditious
approval of investments, with clearly delineated exceptions based on national security
concerns, and to remove preferential tax treatment for foreign investors.
In addition, satisfactory implementation of the overall reform program described in the
Letter of Development Policy, with particular focus on the key reform measures listed in
an attachment to the Letter will be required for second tranche release.



