Report No. PIC3179
Project Name                        Georgia-Structural Adjustment Credit
Region                              Europe and Central Asia
Sector                              Structural Adjustment Credit
Project ID                          GEPA34583
Principal Responsible Entity        Ministry of Economy
Date PID Prepared                   December 6, 1995
Appraisal Date                      February 12, 1996
Board Date                          April 4, 1996
Country Background
I.   Georgia is  a country of 5.4 million people bounded by the Black
Sea, Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, and Turkey. At independence in April
1991, it appeared to be among the best placed of the former Soviet
states to make a successful and rapid transition. It had a highly
educated labor force, a long tradition of entrepreneurship, a successful
agricultural sector, substantial natural resources, and few of the
large, heavy industrial complexes with doubtful economic viability.
Georgia also had a head start on privatization, with virtually all rural
housing in private hands and a significant underground economy. The
country's location made it a primary transit corridor in the Caucasus,
and its climate and scenic variety offered great potential for tourism.
II. Despite these favorable conditions, the Georgian economy went into
a tailspin during the period following independence and the breakup of
the FSU. Partly this was due to factors that were common to the newly
independent states, including the disruption of traditional payments and
trade links, and a large terms of trade shock for energy-imports.
However, these difficulties were compounded by civil conflicts, first in
South Ossetia, then with the Gamsakhurdian faction and in Abkhazia. As
a result, Georgia suffered from one of the sharpest economic declines in
the FSU: between 1990 and 1994 recorded output is estimated to have
fallen by 70 percent. Although the informal economy may have cushioned
the impact of this decline on the population, living standards fell
precipitously, and by 1994 GNP per capita (estimated at $410) had shrunk
to the second lowest among FSU countries.
III. The civil conflicts severely eroded the Government's authority and
ability to conduct sound economic policy. Tax revenues collapsed,
falling to around 2-3 percent of GDP in 1993/1994. The resulting huge
budget deficits led to hyperinflation and to a sharp depreciation of the
domestic currency. By end-1993 annual rate of inflation had reached
8,400 percent and the coupon had fallen to less than 1 percent of its
January value. Substantial currency substitution resulted. In order to
maintain huge subsidies for energy and bread, the Government let its
external debt grow to unsustainable levels and increased its reliance on
humanitarian aid. By the end of 1994 total external debt (including
arrears) represented aost 80 percent of GDP and grants amounted to about
45 percent of government revenues.



IV. A marked change in the political and economic situation occurred in
1994 following the establishment of a cease fire in Abkhazia. With the
benefit of an improved political situation, the Government designed a
program to stabilize and reform the economy. Implementation of this
program has been sustained since September 1994. The program was
supported by a first purchase of SDR 27.8 million under the IMF's
Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) in December, 1994, a World Bank
Rehabilitation Credit (SDR 51 million) in March 1995, and by a second
purchase under the STF (SDR 27.8) and a standby arrangement (SBA) in
June 1995 (SDR 72 million, 65 percent of quota).
V.   In July 1995 the Parliament approved a new Constitution, paving the
way for presidential and parliamentary elections. On November 5 Mr.
Shevardnadze was elected president with a large majority. A new
Government, fully committed to economic reforms, has been formed.
The Country's Adjustment Program
VI. The stabilization strategy relied on drastic fiscal adjustment and
tight monetary policies. The budget deficit was reduced from 26 percent
of GDP in 1993 to about 6 percent in 1995 on an accrual basis. Results
have been impressive: the average monthly rate of inflation fell from
an average of 64 percent in the first three quarters of 1994 to an
average of 3 percent in the first nine months of 1995. The Georgian
coupon appreciated from about 5 million coupons per US$ in unofficial
trading in mid-September 1994 to 1.3 million coupons at the end of 1994,
and then stabilized at that level. The coupon also strengthened against
the Russian ruble. Successful stabilization laid the groundwork for the
introduction of a new national currency, the lari, on September , 1995.
VII. There are signs that Georgia's economic decline has slowed. The
area of cultivated land in 1995 is about 14 percent higher than the area
cultivated the previous year. Industrial output is reported to have
stabilized except in the large Rustavi metallurgical and chemical
plants. Available data suggest output recovery in the service sector,
particularly in transport and retail trade. Preliminary estimates
indicate that the output decline in 1995 will not exceed 5 percent. In
addition, the sharp reduction of the labor force in enterprises of the
state sector (over 35 percent since 1991) is indicative that
restructuring has begun.
VIII.      Despite the civil conflicts and the deteriorating
macroeconomic situation, Georgia had already introduced important
structural reforms in the two years following independence
(liberalization of most prices, open import regime, unified exchange
rate, some privatization and incipient land reform). Further progress
was achieved within the framework of the Government's overall reform
program supported by the Rehabilitation Credit. Implementation of the
reform program has been generally strong with major achievements in
privatization of small-scale enterprises, downsizing of the Government
sector, elimination of subsidies, improvements in the targeting of
social benefits, trade liberalization and development of a legal
framework to support private sector development.
IX. In spite of the initial success of the reform program, the economic
-2 -



situation is fragile. Tax performance remains weak; the financing of
critical public expenditures is limited; many key reforms, such as
medium- and large-scale privatization, are still at an early stage; and
output recovery is still constrained by shortages of energy and lack of
savings.
X.   The goals of the Government's economic program for the months ahead
to be supported by the proposed SAC are to ensure the sustainability of
the stabilization, to foster a strong and sustained recovery of growth
and reduce poverty. The program includes measures aimed at: (i)
maintaining a tight monetary policy supported by an improving fiscal
position; (ii) streamlining the Government sector and improving the
efficiency of public spending; and (iii) inducing a rapid adjustment of
the productive sector to new market signals.    Among the key reforms are
removal of tax exemptions and strengthening of tax administration;
improvements in collection of energy payments, changes in the provision
and financing of social services; restructuring of the pension system
and social protection; acceleration of privatization; restructuring of
the financial sector; trade liberalization and trade promotion.
The Proposed Credit
XI. The credit of $60 million is made to the Republic of Georgia
represented by the Ministry of Finance as Borrower. The proposed
credit, if implemented successfully, would serve as the basis for, and
complement the World Bank's lending program to Georgia. The proceeds
will be utilized within the overall budget envelope supported by the
Standby Arrangement (SBA) and the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF), and thus the local counterpart funds generated through
the sale of the foreign exchange will provide non-inflationary financing
for the Government's public expenditure program. A technical assistance
credit of SDR xx million (US$4.5 million equivalent) is being prepared
in parallel to the proposed credit and would facilitate implementation
of key reforms. The project should also provide a framework for the
provision of financial assistance from other donor agencies.
XII. Poverty Category: The proposed credit is poverty-focused since it
will support improvements in the targeting of social benefits to the
poorest groups.
XIII.     Environmental Category:   The project will have no direct
impact on the environment. For the purposes of OD 4.01, it has been
place in Category C which does not require an environmental assessment.
XIV. Benefits: The main benefits of the credit would be to ensure the
sustainability of the stabilization process and to consolidate and
deepen the structural changes initiated a year and a half ago after a
long period of economic and political turmoil. Over the last months,
inflation has been curbed and economic decline has slowed but the
situation remains precarious. The deepening of the reform process
should consolidate recent achievements, accelerate the transition to a
market economy, and lead to sustained growth recovery and improvements
in living standards. The proposed credit would contribute to a further
downsizing of the state-controlled sector and efficiency gains in the
use of public resources. It would induce adjustment of enterprises to
- 3 -



new market signals and thus foster productivity gains, thereby
increasing savings and investment. It would also strengthen the
country's creditworthiness. The balance of payments support would
finance imports critical to economic activity, and the local counterpart
funds would provide budgetary support to ease the fiscal adjustment and
to maintain a basic level of public expenditures, in particular for
social sectors and infrastructure.
XV. Risks: The main risk is that adequate and timely external
assistance of the magnitude required will not be forthcoming,
threatening the continuation and success of the reform program. The
macroeconomic prospects are such that even with timely implementation of
reforms, Georgia's economy will not reach the 1993 levels of per-capita
consumption (already depressed relative to 1990) before the end of the
century; domestic savings are also likely to remain negative until
1997. The failure to achieve a fully funded program would force a much
stronger domestic adjustment and a lower growth path, imposing
additional social costs to the population. It could lead to a drastic
policy reversal. To address this problem, the Bank will not only
provide continuous financial support, but it will also assist Georgia in
mobilizing external resources through the Consultative Group process and
other donor coordination efforts. A second risk is delayed
implementation due to weak institutional capacity within the Government
and other executing agencies. To date, technical assistance has been
essential in assisting the Government in the design and implementation
of reforms. It is expected however, that the reorganization of the
Government following the enactment of the new Constitution will improve
economic management. The Bank will also make continuous effort, partly
by mobilizing external technical assistance, to provide the much needed
support.
Task Manager:
Michelle Riboud, EC4C2
(202) 473-8743 (tel)
(202) 477-3378 (fax)
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



