Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6797-GE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 41.3 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
MARCH 20, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of February 27, 1996)
Currency Unit = Lari
US$1.00 = 1.26 Laris
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIS - Commonwealth of Independent States
EU - European Union
ESW - Economic and Sector Work
FSU - Former Soviet Union
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GNP - Gross National Product
IBC - Institution Building Credit
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA - International Development Association
IFC - International Finance Corporation
IMF - International Monetary Fund
MIGA - Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NBG - National Bank of Georgia
SAC - Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR - Special Drawing Rights
SOE - Statement of Expenditures
SPM - Ministry of State Property Management
STF - Systemic Transformation Facility
TACIS - Technical Assistance to the CIS
UFSS - United Fund for Social Security
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
ESAF - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GEORGIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Georgia
Amount:             SDR 41.3 million (US$60.0 million equivalent)
Tenns:              Payable over 35 years, including 10 years of grace, on standard IDA terms
Commitment Fee:  0.50%  of undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
Obiectives
and Description:    The main objective of the credit is to consolidate stabilization, foster a strong and
sustained growth recovery and reduce poverty. The reform program aims at: (a)
maintaining a tight monetary program supported by an improving fiscal position:
(b) streamlining the Government sector and improving efficiency of public
spending; and (c) inducing a rapid adjustment of the productive sector to new
market signals. Among the key reforms are removal of tax exemptions and
strengthening of tax administration;  improvements in collection of energy
payments; changes in the provision and financing of social services; restructuring
of the pension system and social protection; acceleration of privatization;
restructuring of the financial sector; trade liberalization and trade promotion.
The other objectives of the credit are to: (i) provide budgetary support to maintain
the level of critical public expenditures, in particular for infrastructure and social
sectors; (ii) provide foreign exchange for the purchase of critical imports; and (iii)
provide a framework for financial assistance from other donor agencies. A
technical assistance credit of SDR 3.3 million (US$4.8 million equivalent) is being
prepared in parallel to the proposed credit and would facilitate implementation of
key reforms.
Poverty Categorv:  The proposed credit is poverty-focused since it will support improvements in the
targeting of social benefits to the poorest groups.
Benefits:           The main benefits of the credit would be to ensure the sustainability of the
stabilization process and to consolidate and deepen the structural changes initiated
a year and a half ago after a long period of economic and political turmoil. Over
the last months, inflation has been curbed and economic decline has slowed but the
situation remains precarious.  The deepening of the reform  process should
consolidate recent achievements, accelerate the transition to a market economy, and
lead to sustained growth recovery and improvements in living standards. The
proposed credit would contribute to a further downsizing of the state-controlled
sector and to efficiency gains in the use of public resources. It would induce
adjustment of enterprises to new market signals and thus foster productivity gains,
thereby increasing savings and investment. It would also strengthen the country's
creditworthiness. The balance of payments support would finance imports critical
to economic activity, and the local counterpart funds would provide budgetary
support to ease the fiscal adjustment and to maintain a basic level of public
expenditures, in particular for social sectors and infrastructure.
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
offilcial duties. Its oontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  



- ii
Risks:             The main risk is that adequate and timely external assistance of the magnitude
required will not be forthcoming, threatening public support for reforms and the
success of the reform program. The macroeconomic prospects are such that even
with timely implementation of reforms, Georgia's economy will not reach the 1990
levels of per-capita consumption before the end of the century; savings are also
likely to remain negative until 1997. The failure to achieve a fully funded program
would force a much stronger domestic adjustment and a lower growth path,
imposing additional social costs to the population. To address this problem, the
Bank will not only provide continuous financial support, but it will also assist
Georgia in mobilizing external resources through the Consultative Group process
and other donor coordination efforts. A second risk is that the terms at which
bilateral creditors agree to reschedule existing claims may be inconsistent with the
country's capacity to pay, lowering the prospects for the attainment of external
viability over the medium term. This risk is being addressed through a debt
strategy developed in agreement with the IMF and on-going negotiations with
bilateral creditors. A third risk is delayed implementation due to weak institutional
capacity within the Government and other executing agencies. To date, technical
assistance has been essential in assisting the Government in the design and
implementation of reforms.  The Bank will make continuous effort, partly by
providing a technical assistance credit and partly by mobilizing external technical
assistance, to provide the much needed support.  It is also expected that the
reorganization of the Government following the enactment of the new Constitution
will improve economic management.
Estimated
Disbursement:      The proceeds of the proposed credit would be released in two tranches of equal
size.
Proiect ID Number: GE-PA-34583
This report is based on missions which visited Georgia in June and December 1995, comprising
Messrs./Mmes. Michelle Riboud (Sr. Country Economist, Mission Leader), John Nash (Trade), S.
Ramachandran (Financial Sector), Stuart Bell (Privatization), Barbara Evans (Energy), Gary Burtless
(Social Protection), Arup Banerji (Civil Sector Reform), Francois Orivel (Education), Ana Revenga
(Public Expenditure), and Cyril Muller (Economic Management). Rosario Hablero provided secretarial
support. Peer reviewers were Martha de Melo and Cheryl Gray. Basil Kavalsky and Wafik Grais are,
respectively, the Director of the Country Department, and Division Chief of the Country Operations
Division, responsible for Georgia in the Europe and Central Asia region.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVF, DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART 1.   RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS FOR THE
FUTURE  .............................................  1
A.     Background  ............................................  1
B.     Policy Achievements since Mid-1994  ............................  3
C.     Remaining Obstacles to Economic Recovery  ........................  5
D.     Macroeconomic Prospects and External Financing Requirements  ...           ........  5
PART II.       THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM  AGENDA AHEAD   ................  7
A.     Maintaining a Tight Monetary Policy  ............................  7
B.     Improving the Tax System  ...................................  8
C.     Streamlining the Government Sector and Improving the Efficiency of Public
Spending .............................................  8
D.     Fostering Adjustment of the Productive Sector  .....................   12
PART III.      BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY   ............................   20
A.     Background and Objectives   .................................   20
B.     Bank/IDA Assistance to Date  ................................   20
C.     The Lending Program  .....................................   21
D.     Economic and Sector Work Program   ...........................   22
E.     MIGA and IFC Activities   ..................................  22
PART IV.       THE PROPOSED CREDIT  .................................  22
A.     Background and Rationale for World Bank Involvement  ...............  22
B.     Program to be Supported  ...................................  23
C.     Project Implementation  ....................................   26
D.  Disbursements ............... 26
E.     Accounts, Auditing and Closing Date  ...........................   26
F.     Environmental Safety  .....................................   27
G.     Poverty Category  ........................................   27
H.     Agreements Reached   .....................................   27
I.     Benefits and Risks  .......................................   27
PART V.        RECOMMENDATION  ....................................   28
ANNEXES
Annex 1        Status of Implementation of Policy Measures Agreed Upon under the Rehab Credit
Annex 2        Key Economic Indicators
Annex 3        Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 4        Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 5        Georgia Structural Adjustment Credit Policy Matrix
Annex 6        Letter of Development Policy






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit to
the Republic of Georgia for SDR 41.3 million (amount equivalent to US$60 million) to provide
support for the Government's economic reform program. The credit would be on standard IDA terms
with a maturity of 35 years including a grace period of 10 years. It has been prepared in parallel
with an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (SDR 166.5 million; 150 percent of quota) approved
by the IMF Board of Directors on February 28, 1996. The first Policy Framework Paper for Georgia
was distributed to the Executive Board on February 9, 1996.
2.    Financing for technical assistance to support a number of measures in the Government's
reform program will be provided by the Bank's on-going Institution Building Credit, by other
donors, and by a Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SDR 3.3 million, equivalent of
US$4.8 million).
3.    Georgia joined the IBRD in August 1992, MIGA in December 1992, IDA in August 1993,
and IFC in June 1995. The first Country Economic Memorandum, entitled "Georgia, from Crisis to
Recovery: A Blueprint for Reforms" (Report No. 11275-GE), was distributed to the Board in May
1993. An updated version of that report was made available to the general public in October 1993. A
Macroeconomic Update was distributed at the Consultative Group meeting held in November 1994.
PART I. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE
A.    Background
4.    Georgia is a country of 5.4 million people bounded by the Black Sea, Russia, Azerbaijan,
Armenia, and Turkey. At independence in April 1991, it appeared to be among the best placed of the
former Soviet states to make a successful and rapid transition. It had a highly educated labor force, a
long tradition of entrepreneurship, a successful agricultural sector, substantial natural resources, and
few of the large, heavy industrial complexes with doubtful economic viability. Georgia also had a
head start on privatization, with virtually all rural housing in private hands and a significant
underground economy. The country's location made it a primary transit corridor in the Caucasus,
and its climate and scenic variety offered great potential for tourism.
5.    Despite these favorable conditions, the Georgian economy went into a tailspin during the
period following independence and the breakup of the FSU. Partly this was due to factors that were
common to the newly independent states, including the disruption of traditional payments and trade
links, and a large terms of trade shock for energy-imports. However, these difficulties were
compounded by civil conflicts, first in South Ossetia, then with the Gamsakhurdian faction and in
Abkhazia. As a result, Georgia suffered from one of the sharpest economic declines in the FSU:



between 1990 and 1994 recorded output is estimated to have fallen by 70 percent'. Although the
informal economy may have cushioned the impact of this decline on the population, living standards
fell precipitously, and by 1994, GNP per capita (estimated at US$410) had shrunk to the second
lowest among FSU countries.
6.     The civil conflicts severely eroded the Government's authority and ability to conduct sound
economic policy. Tax revenues collapsed, falling to around 2-3 percent of GDP in 1993/1994. The
resulting huge budget deficits led to hyperinflation and to a sharp depreciation of the domestic
currency. By end-1993 annual inflation had reached 8,400 percent and the coupon had fallen to less
than 1 percent of its January value. Substantial currency substitution resulted. In order to maintain
huge subsidies for energy and bread, the Government let its external debt grow to unsustainable levels
and increased its reliance on humanitarian aid. By the end of 1994 total external debt (including
arrears) represented almost 80 percent of GDP and grants amounted to about 45 percent of
government revenues.
7.     Shrinking resources also led to the government's loss of control of essential functions, most
importantly of providing basic social services and a reliable safety net for the poor. Expenditures on
health and education declined from 12 percent of GDP in 1991 to less than 2 percent in 1994, and in
early 1995 expenditures on pensions and the social safety net did not exceed 2.5 percent of GDP, to
be compared with 4.6 percent in Armenia and 11 percent in Azerbaijan. Physical infrastructure was
neglected and deteriorated rapidly.
8.     A marked change in the political and economic situation occurred in 1994 following the
establishment of a cease-fire in Abkhazia. With the benefit of an improved political situation, the
Goveriunent designed a program to stabilize and reform the economy. Implementation of this
program has been sustained since September 1994. The program was supported by a first purchase
of SDR 27.8 million under the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) in December 1994, a
World Bank Rehabilitation Credit (SDR 51 million) in March 1995, and by a second purchase under
the STF (SDR 27.8 million) and a standby arrangement (SBA) in June 1995 (SDR 72 million, 65
percent of quota).
9.     Recent political events show a growing consensus for reforms. In July 1995 the Parliament
approved a new Constitution which establishes a strong executive presidency. Presidential and
parliamentary elections held on November 5,1995, affirmed the Government's pro-reform platform.
Mr. Shevardnadze was elected president with about 75 percent of the vote and his party became the
majority party in Parliament. The structure of the new Government has been modified to strengthen
coordination among ministries and a closer cooperation between the executive and legislative branches
of Govermment is expected in the future.
Precise estimates of output contraction are not possible due to deficiencies in the coverage and quality of
economic statistics. As in other FSU countries, the magnitude of economic decline is likely to be overestimated.
Indirect indicators such as energy consumption suggest however that the decline has been substantial and exceeds
50 percent.



B.    Policy Achievements since Mid-1994
Stabilization
10.    The stabilization strategy relied on drastic fiscal adjustment and tight monetary policies. The
budget deficit was reduced from 26 percent of GDP in 1993 to about 6 percent in 1995 on an accrual
basis. Results have been impressive: the average monthly rate of inflation fell from an average of 64
percent in the first three quarters of 1994 to an average of 3 percent in the first nine months of
1995. The Georgian coupon appreciated from about 5 million coupons per US dollar in unofficial
trading in mid-September 1994 to 1.3 million coupons at the end of 1994, and then stabilized at that
level. The coupon also strengthened against the Russian ruble.
11.    Successful stabilization laid the groundwork for the introduction of a new national currency,
the lari, on September 25, 1995. The population converted about US$50 million of foreign currency
within a month, leading to a fourfold increase of the domestic currency in circulation and growth in
the international reserves of the NBG. The lari appears to have supplanted the ruble as the principal
medium of exchange and unit of account. Introduced with a conversion factor of I million coupons
per lari, the new currency has since become the sole legal tender. It appreciated slightly with respect
to the US. dollar: the exchange rate was 1.26 lari per US$ at the end of February 1996 (vs. 1.30 in
September).
12.    There are signs that Georgia's economic decline has slowed. The area of cultivated land in
1995 is about 14 percent higher than the area cultivated the previous year. Industrial output is
reported to have stabilized except in the large Rustavi metallurgical and chemical plants. Available
data suggest output recovery in the service sector, particularly in transport and retail trade.
Preliminary estimates indicate that the output decline in 1995 did not exceed 5 percent. In addition,
the sharp reduction of the labor force in enterprises of the state sector (over 35 percent since 1991) is
indicative that restructuring has begun.
Structural Reforms
13.    Despite the civil conflicts and the deteriorating macroeconomic situation, Georgia had already
introduced important structural reforms in the two years following independence (liberalization of
most prices, open import regime, unified exchange rate, some privatization and incipient land
reform). Further progress was achieved within the framework of the Government's overall reform
program supported by the Rehabilitation Credit. Implementation of the reform program (see Annex 1
for details) has been generally strong with major achievements in privatization of small-scale
enterprises, downsizing of the Government sector, elimination of subsidies, improvements in the
targeting of social benefits, trade liberalization and development of a legal framework to support
private sector development.
14.    Fostering Ownership Change. Privatization of small, medium-size and large enterprises made
rapid progress in 1995. As of December 1995, 6,432 small enterprises (90 percent of the universe)
had been privatized up from 1,657 in October 1994. Privatization of medium-size and large
enterprises began with as a first step, their corporatization. To date about 840 enterprises (75 percent
of the total) have been corporatized. Transfer of ownership started in mid-1995 through various
methods, mainly a buyout option offering 51 percent of shares to employers and employees, and a
mass privatization program offering at least 35 percent of shares to the public through voucher



auctions (see para. 53). Investment funds were licensed to buy vouchers and bid in the auctions. The
Government also developed a demonopolization and privatization plan for the Bread Corporation.
15.    Downsizing Government. The Government initiated a policy of labor retrenchment and in
1995, reduced the number of positions in the budgetary sector by 40 percent. The largest reduction
(about 130,000 positions) occurred in the health sector as part of a radical reform aimed at
transferring much of the provision and financing of health care to the private sector.
16.    Removing Price Distortions and Consumer Subsidies. The Government readjusted the prices
of goods and services that remained regulated, namely, those of energy (gas, electricity), public
transportation, and rationed bread, all of which had been kept at extremely low levels. Price
increases - most of them introduced in September 1994 - have been huge, especially for consumers,
ranging from 5 times (gas for heating) to 13,000 times (gas for cooking). The price of bread, the
main staple in Georgia, rose 1,500 times. These new prices were calculated to reflect full import and
distribution costs and thus to eliminate subsidies. Subsequent price adjustments occurred over the
year. In the case of bread, the sharp price increase has already led to a rapid expansion of the private
sector which is not subject to price control, and now represents about 20 percent of the market.
17.    Developing a Legal Framework. The Government has also progressed in establishing a legal
framework for private sector development. In 1994, it adopted simple registration procedures for
new business and allowed long-term leasing arrangements for commercial real estate; it also enacted
a company law in 1994, and a foreign investment law in 1995. A commercial banking law and a
law permitting private ownership of agricultural land were adopted in early 1996 (see paras. 63 and
67). An anti-monopoly law and a civil code have also been submitted to Parliament. The first law is
expected to be approved by mid-1996 and the second one at the end of 1996. A bankruptcy law is
also under preparation and would replace an existing 1992 decree2.
18.    Liberalizing International Trade. The Government began to eliminate export restrictions
while maintaining a relatively free import regime. In December 1994, it abolished the 8 percent
export tax, and in February 1995 it reduced the number of goods under export licensing and quotas
(from 27 to 9). In June, it eliminated the state order system. The Government also improved the
effectiveness of the foreign exchange market by abolishing all distinctions between cash and non-cash
and eliminating the surrender requirement, thus removing implicit taxation of foreign earnings.
19.    Strengthening the Financial Sector. Initial steps have been taken to strengthen the financial
sector. The National Bank of Georgia issued new prudential regulations and is gradually
strengthening its supervisory function, and Parliament adopted a law in late June 1995 guaranteeing
independence of the National Bank in formulating and implementing monetary and exchange rate
policies.
20.   Improving the Targeting of Social Benefits. The Government took several measures to
improve the targeting of social benefits (removing 125,000 working pensioners from the pension
rolls; eliminating special pension supplements and childbirth and funeral benefits; and targeting child
2/     The Commercial Banking Law is a prior action and the anti-monopoly law is a structural benchmark under
the ESAF. The timing of the bankruptcy law is less urgent as the existing decree provides an adequate legal
framework while the law is being prepared.



allowances to families with at least two children). With the resources saved and through some
reallocation of public expenditures, the Government was able to modestly increase pensions,
unemployment benefits and other social benefits for the neediest.
C.    Remaining Obstacles to Economic Recovery
21.   In spite of this initial success, the economic situation remains fragile. Tax performance
remains extremely weak: despite the increase in tax rates, revenues in 1995 rose only to 3.7 percent
of GDP. With government expenditures already sharply reduced (13 percent of GDP), the
sustainability of the fiscal adjustment in the short run depends largely on the success of efforts to
increase tax collections. Moreover, even with improved revenue performance, the financing of
critical public expenditures remains constrained without increased efficiency and reallocation of public
spending.
22.    Many key reforms are still at an early stage. The privatization of medium and large
enterprises has just begun and firms have yet to make the critical adjustment to market signals. The
development of agriculture remains constrained by the lack of well-defined property rights and
incomplete land reform. With most banks either insolvent or inactive, the banking sector fails to
intermediate savings efficiently. And the incentive framework to foster export growth is not fully in
place.
23.    The shortage of energy remains a critical constraint to output recovery. Energy imports
declined significantly in 1995 as the Government stopped procuring gas. Because of continued
problems in collecting payments from final consumers, producers too were unable to finance energy
imports. Urgent energy sector reforms are needed to foster efficiency and growth of domestic
production.
24.    The reform program underway aims at restoring both public and private savings. But in the
short run, it will be impossible to finance essential public investment out of domestic resources. To
sustain growth, Georgia will continue to require substantial external assistance. Also needed is private
foreign investment which will have to be fostered by a favorable political and economic environment.
D.    Macroeconomic Prospects and External Financing Requirements
25.    The implementation of the Government's reform agenda described below should consolidate
stabilization and lead to sustained growth recovery:
26.   Inflation and Output. With the continuation of prudent monetary policies, annual inflation is
projected to decline to 23 percent during 1996, and to 8-9 percent in 1997. Growth is expected to
resume in 1996, building on the recovery of the agriculture and service sectors observed during 1995.
It will be bolstered by a greatly improved economic environment, increasing public confidence and a
more stable political climate. Further growth of the service sector will be fostered by progress in
privatization and by increasing trade, particularly with recovering neighboring countries. Progress in
land reform and removal of the remaining barriers to export should contribute to rapid growth of the
agriculture sector. In the industrial sector, initial recovery of output will be driven by increased
utilization of available efficient capacity; subsequent growth will be led by new investment in
response to emerging opportunities in the new envirornent.  The fairly high labor mobility that
characterizes the Georgian labor market is expected to facilitate enterprise restructuring.



27.    Given the present low level of recorded output, fairly high rates of growth are expected to
prevail during the early years followed by a gradual return to a more modest growth path. High
registered growth rates will also result from progress in measuring output, in particular following the
expected integration of the informal sector into the formal economy. Improvements in living
standards will be gradual and, only at the turn of the century, will the level of private consumption
recover that of 1993.
28.    Recent years have witnessed a virtual collapse of investment. Public capital expenditures,
even for maintenance have almost come to a halt. However with recent progress toward stabilization
and political stability and an appropriate legal framework in place, it is expected that investment will
start to recover as early as 1996. Also anticipated is significant foreign direct investment to
rehabilitate the oil pipeline which should provide an upward pull for other activities. Investment
should thus gradually rise to 5.1 percent of GDP in 1996, and reach about 19 percent in 2005.
Public investment will be directed mostly at rehabilitating and rebuilding the physical infrastructure
needed to support private sector development.
29.    External Sector. Given the size of the economy, the recovery of exports is critical to the
resumption of economic growth. Fostered by economic recovery in neighboring countries, the
removal of export restrictions, improvements in infrastructure, and increased availability of raw
materials, exports are expected to grow at an annual rate of about 11 percent during the next four
years. Agriculture and food processing are expected to lead this export drive.
30.    The sustainability of the external financial balance will require demand management to allow
imports to recover more slowly than exports. Imports, mostly of raw materials, equipment and
capital goods, would grow at an average annual rate of about 7 percent. Helped by higher rates of
growth for exports than imports, the current account deficit is expected to decrease from 15 percent
of GDP in 1995 to about 1.4 percent by 2005.
31.   External Debt and Financing Reguirements. Georgia accumulated substantial external
obligations in the three years following independence. At the end of 1994, the total stock of debt
amounted to about US$1.0 billion (including US$409 million of arrears). The bulk of Georgia's
obligations to FSU countries arose of non-payment for natural gas imports from Turkmenistan after a
more than fivefold increase in the price of gas in 1993 (total debt to Turkmenistan as of the end of
1994 reached US$440 million). In late 1994, unable to meet these obligations, the Government, in
agreement with the IMF, developed a strategy to normalize its relations with its creditors. First, it
requested and obtained from its creditors (except Turkmenistan) a standstill on debt service
obligations falling due, and remained current on its cash payments for gas supplied during 1995.
Second, starting in 1995, it deposited US$8 million per quarter in a special account in the Netherlands
Bank to build up a reserve for debt service payments. At the same time, a debt commission was
established to lead negotiations with bilateral official creditors on debt rescheduling. Rescheduling
would apply to the stock of arrears and debt service due until the end of 1996 (the proposed terms
would be 4 percent interest, 5 years of grace and 10 years maturity). Bilateral official creditors have
now accepted to discuss the rescheduling arrangements, as well as to maintain during the period of
negotiations, the standstill on all debt obligations falling due until the end of 1996. Discussions are
underway with Russia and Turkey who have already indicated their willingness to adhere to the
proposed scheme. Turkmenistan has also accepted to enter into negotiations provided prior settlement
of overdue payments-in-kind for gas imports in 1995. The Government has now made adequate
provision in the 1996 budget for clearing in-kind arrears, which should allow negotiations with



- 7 -
Turkmenistan to proceed. In the case of the European Union, it is expected that all debt service
payments, including overdue payments would be accommodated through the provision of grants
within a program of exceptional macroeconomic assistance.
32.   In 1996, gross financing needs will amount to about US$445 million. These would be used to
finance a current account deficit of US$343 million, US$89 million of amortization payments on
existing debt, and US$13 million for building up foreign exchange reserves to cover 2.7 months of
imports. In addition, the stock of arrears to be settled amounts to US$528 million. Assuming that the
debt strategy will be adhered to by creditors, and thus, that debt obligations in 1996 (including
arrears) are met through debt workout, current lending programs of multilateral organizations and
other identified commitments (including grants) would close the financing gap. This rests on the
assumption of a tight fiscal program, good export performance, and the obtention of US$234 million
of official transfers, including humanitarian assistance from the United States and the European Union
as well as EU grants to offset debt service payments.
33.   For 1997-2005, average annual gross financing requirements are projected at about US$419
million, the amount needed to finance an average annual current account deficit of US$255 million; a
modest built-up of reserves of US$25 million, with the reserve cover increasing from 2.7 months of
imports in 1996 to about 3.5 months on average from 1998 on; and US$139 million of amortization
payments due (taking into account the proposed rescheduling). During these years, the bulk of
external resources would have to come from official sources, initially on concessional terns. A good
portion of multilateral assistance would take the form of balance of payments support. Private foreign
financing is expected to play an important role in the medium term.
34.   Georgia's debt burden is projected to decline gradually from 1996 on. Total debt to exports
is expected to reach 249 percent in 1996, decreasing thereafter to 174 percent in 2005. The total debt
service burden would decrease from 30 to 11 percent in 1996 through debt workout, and increase
gradually thereafter to reach 30 percent in 2005.
PART II. THE AGENDA AHEAD
35.   The goals of the Government's economic program for the months ahead are to ensure the
sustainability of the stabilization and to foster a strong and sustained recovery of growth. The
program includes measures aimed at: (i) maintaining a tight monetary policy supported by an
improving fiscal position; (ii) streamlining the Government sector and improving the efficiency of
public spending; and (iii) inducing a rapid adjustment of the productive sector to new market signals.
A.    Maintaining a Tight Monetary Policy
36.   The Government intends to reduce the inflation rate to 20-25 percent in 1996 and to 8-9
percent in 1997, and to strengthen the international reserve position of the NBG. To enhance its
capacity to achieve its monetary objectives, the NBG will increase the range of its monetary policy
instruments, introducing government securities and developing the interbank credit auction. To
reduce the cost of credit, the reserve requirement ratio will be lowered, with a first decrease from 20
to 18 percent already introduced in January 1996.



B.    Improving the Tax System
37.   The Government is aware that the sustainability of the stabilization depends crucially on
mobilizing budgetary resources and gradually reducing reliance on external grants and loans. The
goal is not to rebuild a large state, but to ensure that the Government has the resources it needs to
perform critical functions. In 1995, revenues (excluding grants) covered only about 40 percent of
total expenditures. To reduce the budget deficit to 3-4 percent of GDP in 1996, and reach a
revenue-to-expenditure ratio of about 70 percent, major efforts are needed to improve revenue
performance. The Government intends to increase tax revenues from 3.7 percent of GDP in 1995 to
6.7 percent in 1996. To reach that objective the Government envisages a series of key measures
designed in collaboration with the IMF. First, as of March 1, 1996 the Government has expanded the
tax base by removing most tax exemptions (VAT, customs, excises and profit taxes). Second,
substantial reforms of tax administration are being introduced over the first half of 1996 with
technical assistance from the IMF. The State Tax Service has been made responsible for enforcing
compliance with all tax laws; the 25 largest regional tax inspectorates are being reorganized and all
remaining ones will be reorganized by June 1996; a taxpayer survey will be completed and
identification numbers introduced by July 1996; procedures and regulations for tax assessment, the
incentive system for tax inspectors and collection agencies, and penalties for non-compliance will be
reviewed and appropriate changes implemented by July 1996. The Government will also, with
assistance from the IMF and the World Bank., develop and implement a customs administration
reform program to be supported by the SATAC. In addition, the Government intends to review all
tax laws and draft a new VAT tax law and a new tax code to be submitted to Parliament by July 1996
and January 1997, respectively.
C.    Streamlining the Government Sector and Improving the Efficiency of Public Spending
38.   Even with improved revenue performance, the Government will have to maintain a tight
expenditure program. This implies maintaining only critical functions - undertaking labor
retrenchment and radically reforming the administration and financing of activities that were financed
from the budget, mostly social services and social protection. It also implies eliminating all subsidies
- even implicit ones - which can jeopardize the sustainability of the adjustment.
Reforming Government Pay and Employment
39.   Public administration in Georgia combines overemployment with the scarcity of key skills,
and extremely low pay. The result is low efficiency and motivation of public employees, and a
deteriorated capacity to perform essential public functions. To improve performance, the Government
needs to define its core functions, develop an organizational structure, and reduce budgetary
employment. With the existing wage bill, only about 80,000 employees - rather than the current
367,000 - could be paid a wage equivalent to the cost of the minimum consumption basket. The
Government thus has no choice but to combine revenue-increasing measures with continuing cutbacks
in civil service personnel.
40.   Since January 1995, the Government has reduced the number of budgetary positions by 40
percent (200,000 workers). But this effort will need to continue, in particular by introducing reforms
in the education sector (see para. 43). The Government also intends to introduce civil service reforms
following changes in the structure of the Government, and is receiving assistance from EU-TACIS
and UNDP in this regard.



- 9 -
Reforming the Role of the State in the Provision and Financing of Social Services
41.    The collapse in budgetary revenues has led to a drastic reduction in public investment in
human capital. Public expenditures on health and education currently amount to less than 2 percent
of GDP. The Government is aware that restoring public spending to past levels would be impossible
and undesirable. It is determined to implement reforms that would radically change the role of the
state in the provision and financing of social services. However, it is also cognizant that in a context
of negative private savings, the compression of essential expenditures could lead to a deterioration of
the country's stock of human capital. It is also aware that certain population groups may be unable to
have access to these services. Thus, to ensure the minimum level of expenditures necessary for
growth, and to protect access to the poor, the Government has increased the share of public
expenditures allocated to both health and education in the 1996 state budget. This results in about 7
percent of total public expenditures to health, and 8 percent to education. The Government intends to
pursue this policy so as to gradually restore its capacity of providing a more adequate level of
essential public services.
42.    Health. The Government has already introduced a radical reform in the Georgian health care
system. A new public health insurance fund, financed in part through payroll tax contributions and
in part through budgetary contributions, was set up in July 1995. The state's financing role has been
reduced to cover only a basic package of medical services, leaving patients to pay for additional
services. Employees of the health sector have been removed from the government payroll and will be
paid by hospitals and clinics that have become managerially independent firms. Privatization of
some medical facilities has begun and is planned to continue until the end of 1997.
43.    Education. The need for fundamental reform of the education system is widely
acknowledged. Georgia inherited a highly developed education system which it can no longer support
with available resources. Public spending in education in real terms is currently less than 10 percent
of its 1990 level. In November 1995, the Government adopted a plan of action for education
which it started implementing thereafter. This plan gives priority in the allocation of public resources
to basic education and to targeted population groups (orphans, students with disabilities). It fosters
the creation of private schools at all levels of education and an increased participation of families in
the financing of education (tuition). It encourages local initiatives to increase staff compensation,
reflects the need to reform educational pay scales and sets targets for substantial cuts in the number
of staff paid out of public budgets. The staff of the education sector has already been reduced
substantially: from 250,000 initially to 163,000 today. The new plan will aim at a further decrease to
120,000 over the next four years, with a first reduction of 10,000 in 1996.
Reforming Social Insurance and Social Protection
44.    Georgia faces a dilemma common to all former Soviet states: the economic crisis has
increased the need for social protection programs while at the same time drastically reducing the
Government's capacity to administer and pay for them. To address this issue, the Government has
taken significant steps since the fall of 1994 to improve the targeting of benefits and allow a real
increase in benefit levels in 1995. Despite these efforts, benefits remain dramatically low. Monthly
pensions (6 laris in December 1995) amount to about US$5, equivalent to about 20 kilos of bread a
month. Other benefits, including child allowances and allowances to single mothers, are similarly
low. Unemployment benefits remain so low that few unemployed (only 1,500 in mid-1995) bother to
collect them. The only sizeable assistance program is directed to the 282,700 officially registered



- 10 -
refugees from civil conflicts in Abkhazia and other regions of Georgia. Until refugees are allowed to
return to their homes or are integrated into the local economy, transfer payments to them are likely to
remain a drain on the government budget.
45.   In the short run the prospects for improving social benefits are limited. First, too many
Georgians remain eligible for benefits. Despite the reforms introduced in late 1994 (notably
removing 125,000 working pensioners from the pension rolls), there are as many people (about 1
million) collecting pensions as contributing to the United Fund for Social Security (UFSS). Second,
under-reporting of labor income is significant (the reported wage bill represents only 4% of GDP),
and will only worsen as workers move from state-owned enterprises and the budgetary sector to
private jobs. Third, possibilities for reallocating budgetary resources from other uses to social
benefits are limited.
46.   The decline in contributors and under-reporting of wages have been exacerbated by the move
toward flat-rate benefits and the high social security contribution rate. The adoption of flat-rate
benefits in September 1994 (unavoidable under the circumstances) has transformed the social security
contribution into a pure tax on earnings. Breaking the link between contributions and benefits has
given workers and employers a powerful incentive to create employment in the informal sector, where
the high tax can be avoided.
47.   In the longer run, even with a strong economic recovery, two issues will remain. First, it is
unlikely that workers and employers will be willing to pay a combined contribution rate of 45 percent
for social security, unemployment insurance, and health insurance to a public system that has failed to
protect the incomes of the most vulnerable. Second, the age structure of the population combined
with generous eligibility rules (retirement age is 55 for women and 60 for men) will inevitably create
pressure to further increase taxes on earnings. Given these circumstances, the Government is
determined to undertake a fairly radical reform to address sustainability issues, correct the perverse
incentive effects, restore credibility and improve support to the neediest sections of the population.
The reform agenda has five main elements:
(i)    Restricting pension eligibility. To lower the high dependency ratio and concentrate
pensions on those who are more likely to need support, the Government raised the retirement age
from 60 to 65 for men and from 55 to 60 for women, as of March 1, 1996.
(ii)    Shifting the public social protection system to social assistance. Public social
insurance can be effective only if covered wages represent an important percentage of personal
incomes. In Georgia, reported wages most likely represent less than 10 percent of personal income.
By adopting a flat-rate pension, the Government has moved towards offering social assistance rather
than social insurance. But it retains a social insurance framework by using a payroll tax to finance
benefits. The Government plans to reduce the payroll tax rate and move towards financing much
more of the social safety net through general budgetary revenues. As a first step, the contribution
rate to the Employment Fund was reduced from 3 to 1 percent in March 1996. To decrease
expenditures, spending from the Employment Fund has been limited to unemployment benefits and
operating costs. All worker retraining, job search and job creation programs, considered of less
priority, have been interrupted. In addition, the employer contribution rate to the UFSS (in the non-
budgetary sector) was reduced by 8 percentage points. The Government envisages further reductions
in the contribution rate as the fiscal situation improves, and within the framework of the reforms of
the pension system.



- 11 -
(iii)   Shifting responsibility for paying sickness pay to employers. In addition to pensions,
the UFSS finances sickness benefits. To reduce the required contribution to the UFSS, the
Government intends to limit the Fund's spending to benefits for invalid and retired workers.
Workers' pay during short-term disabilities and illness will become the direct financial responsibility
of employers. The Government will prepare the necessary legislation by mid-1996 and put it into
effect no later than January 1997.
(iv)   Introducing private pension plans and building a three-pillar system. The Government
will prepare a regulatory framework to encourage workers, enterprises, and financial institutions to
establish voluntary, privately funded pension schemes (or tax-free thrift plans). By second tranche,
legislation, acceptable to the Bank, will be drafted by the Government and submitted to Parliament.
If prudently regulated and supervised, this type of system could mobilize long-term savings and
provide improved income security to future retirees and their dependents. It could contribute to the
development of a capital market. The Government also intends to develop a plan under which both
employers and workers would be obliged to contribute to qualified private, fully funded pension
plans. Detailed legislation governing the funds and including a revision of the current pay-as-you-go
system will be prepared and adopted by the Government by the end of 1996 and made effective no
later than end-1998.
(v)    Establishing a back-up program of social assistance. The economic crisis in Georgia
and the curtailing of many kinds of social protection have placed many Georgian families in economic
jeopardy. Some of these families receive government benefits, but other destitute families do not
qualify. To assist these unprotected groups, the Government intends to develop an assistance
program. Financing for the new program will be obtained by further limiting child allowances and
reducing allowances for refugees with adequate incomes from work. The test for eligibility (to be
defined after detailed survey analysis) will take into account the presence in the family of at least one
vulnerable individual. Vulnerable individuals include children, old persons and invalids. Families
will have to periodically demonstrate that they continue to meet the conditions for eligibility.
Eligibility limits will be set so that no more than 5 percent of the population qualifies for assistance,
and within the limits of budgetary resources. The new backup program will be developed and
adopted by end-1996.
Eliminating Subsidies
48.    Although the sharp increase in the price of energy in September 1994 and subsequent
adjustments eliminated explicit budgetary subsidies to consumers and enterprises, implicit subsidies
remain, notably through the delivery of gas and electricity to non-paying customers. Collection rates
for electricity fell to a historic low of 4 percent in May 1995, and have rebounded only modestly
since, to the 6-10 percent range. Cross-subsidization favoring residential consumption was
reintroduced in July 1995 and wholesale tariffs vary widely among distributors as a result of billing
and accounting irregularities. The gas company also faces severe collection problems, with
collection rates of only 2-8 percent during late 1994 and 1995. With no gas metering, residential gas
use is billed on the basis of volumetric norms which do not match actual consumption. The
persistence of these implicit subsidies jeopardizes the sustainability of the fiscal adjustment, favors the
accumulation of arrears and external debt, and undermines the financial position of the electricity
company. The persistence of subsidies also dampens the incentives for enterprise adjustment, and
thus reduce the prospects for output recovery (see para. 65).



- 12 -
49.   To improve collection rates the Government created a Special Commission on Energy
Payments in October 1995. This commission is authorized to improve collection of energy payrnents
through measures including auditing of debtor's accounts to identify assets available to make payment,
auction of inventories, ordering bank transfers, or cutoff of electricity supply. A monitoring system
with monthly reporting starting in March 1996 has been established and the Chairman of the
Commission for Energy Payments has issued an order to Sakenergo and distribution electricity
companies to collect and submit to the Commission in a timely manner the necessary monthly data.
The Commission is committed to gradually improving monthly collection of payments from 30
percent in March to at least 55 percent in August and 65 percent in December. To prevent further
accumulation of arrears, the use of imported fuel and electric power by the electricity company,
Sakenergo, will be permitted only under arrangements clearly specifying the price and terms of
repayment, and only to the extent that Sakenergo has sufficient funds to finance the cash costs of such
imports on a current basis. To that end, a special account has been established to collect revenues.
The primary sources of funds will be electricity payment collections. The account can also operate
with borrowed funds provided they do not exceed US$6 million at any point in time and do not imply
a government guarantee. The Government is also committed to not resuming residential gas
deliveries (interrupted in May 1995) until proper equipment, allowing metering of residential gas
consumption is installed. It is also the Government's policy that energy consumers should settle their
bills in cash, and that no institutionalized barter-trading companies be created within the energy
companies.
50.    The Government will also take measures to improve the tariff structure. Retail electricity
tariffs during the July - October 1995 period included a cross-subsidy for the first 100 kwh of
monthly residential consumption. There was no systematic framework for approving wholesale tariffs
and ensuring that retail tariffs permit proper cost recovery by the local distribution companies that
were created in May 1995.  In January 1996 a unified wholesale tariff in the amount of 2.4 tetris
per k-wh was established for all distribution companies. Further tariff reforms will include:
(i)    Wholesale tariff reform: wholesale tariffs will at least cover the cost of generation,
import and transmission by June 1996, with quarterly adjustments thereafter. Tariff calculations will
include, as a minimum, fuel and maintenance costs, other operating costs, an allowance for
depreciation and bad debt, a reasonable profit margin, and a provision for interest on past-due
accounts.
(ii)    Retail tariff reform: a national tariff formula will be established, allowing retail
tariffs to vary according to the cost of operation of different distributors; distribution costs can be
quite different depending in particular on the composition of consumption and the geographical area.
The national formula for retail electricity tariffs will provide for phasing out of cross-subsidies over a
three-year period, with the first adjustment to take place by September 1996.
D.    Fostering Adjustment of the Productive Sector
Accelerating Privatization
51.    The Universe to be Privatized. The Government fully recognizes that rapid completion of
privatization is key to the structural transformation of the economy, improved enterprise efficiency,
and thus recovery of output. The Government's strategy envisages privatizing the vast majority of
state-owned enterprises; only a small group of entities necessary to carry out normal government



- 13 -
functions, will remain 100 percent state-owned (primarily statutory bodies, such as research institutes,
social services and military units). These entities are identified in Cabinet Resolution 249 of May 7,
1995. As this list included some enterprises which would better serve public interest under private
ownership, the Government issued a decree in February 1996 amending the list so as to reduce the
number of enterprises that will not be subject to privatization. In addition, the Government wishes to
keep a majority of shares in a few enterprises for reasons of national security. The list of these
enterprises will be revised as part of the review of all decrees maintaining 51 percent of shares under
state ownership in a number of enterprises.
52.    Small-Scale Privatization. Privatization of small-scale enterprises is nearing completion. The
Letter of Development Policy prepared within the context of the Rehabilitation credit committed the
Government to privatization of 6,481 small enterprises by the end of 1995. This target has been met
and by February 1996, the Government had privatized 6,700 small enterprises. It intends to complete
the privatization of all small enterprises (7,200) by the end of April 1996.
53.    Medium- and Large-Scale Privatization. Privatization of medium- and large-scale enterprises
began in earnest in the spring of 1995. A total of about 1,100 medium- and large-size enterprises
were identified. All are first to be converted to joint stock companies, and to date, 840 enterprises
have been corporatized. The Government has decided to proceed with privatization by stages and
using various methods. In a first stage, the Government intends to fully privatize about 900
enterprises, leaving for a second stage the privatization of the remaining 200. For the latter, most of
which produce primary products (such as minerals, gas, oil products and chemicals) or provide
critical services (such as trade and wholesaling, construction, airport and port services), the
Government intends to sell only a minority of shares during the first stage. To this effect, it issued
decrees which temporarily reserve for state ownership 51 percent of their shares. However, except
for those enterprises in which the majority of shares would be retained for reasons of national
security, the Government will, by second tranche, amend the relevant decrees and eliminate these
restrictions, thus initiating the second wave of privatization. It intends to complete the privatization
of all enterprises no later than the end of 1997.
54.    In 1995, several methods of transferring ownership were adopted. First, employees in state
enterprises received 5 percent of shares for free. Second, enterprise managers and employees were
given the option to buy an additional 51 percent of the shares of their enterprise. This buyout
option, which expired in October 1995, was applied for by 423 enterprises. Employers and
employees have until July 1996 to complete the payment (to be made partly by vouchers, and partly
by cash). It is the Government's policy to transfer only shares which are paid in full. Third, to
ensure some outside ownership, at least 35 percent of the shares of every medium and large enterprise
subject to privatization are offered to the public through the mass privatization program ("special"
voucher auctions) launched in June 1995. Through these auctions, shares are allocated to bidders
based on the number of vouchers submitted. Investment funds have been licensed to buy vouchers
and bid in the auctions. To date shares of about 700 enterprises have been offered to the public
through the voucher auctions and by July 1996, shares of all medium- and large-scale enterprises will
have been offered to the public at least once.
55.    These various methods will still leave some proportion of shares under state ownership, in
particular if the buyout is not completed. For the majority of enterprises, remaining shares will be
sold through auctions either as a single package per enterprise to the highest bidder, or grouped in
"packets" of shares. Cash auctions will be used to complete the process once vouchers expire. Cash



- 14 -
auctions are identical to voucher auctions, except that payment will be only in cash. Whenever the
remaining majority block of shares cannot be sold through the first offering at a cash auction, the
enterprise will be liquidated and its assets auctioned. Voucher and cash auctions will be equally open
to the participation of all investors, foreign and domestic. Guidelines specifying the detailed
conditions and procedures to be applied to voucher and cash auctions were issued in early 1996.
56.    The Ministry of State Property Management has identified a few medium and large
enterprises which, because of their size and activities, are expected to be attractive to foreign
investors. At least 51 percent of their shares will be offered to strategic foreign investors through
competitive international tenders. For two of them, services of an investment bank have already been
secured. In addition, tenders will be used to privatize a few larger, more complex enterprises in
which the Government wishes to obtain investment commitments from bidders. Foreign and domestic
investors will be allowed to compete on an equal basis. Guidelines specifying the detailed conditions
and procedures to be applied to tenders were issued in early 1996.
57.    Employing the above methods, the Government has privatized 125 medium and large
enterprises by end-January 1996 and is committed to privatize an additional 200 medium and large
enterprises by second tranche. The Government intends to complete the privatization program by the
end of 1997.
58.    A number of enterprises (public and private) have outstanding claims on the Government for
the delivery of unpaid products under the old state order system. Preliminary estimates indicate that
aggregate claims are equal to approximately US$4 million for private enterprises, and to US$6 million
for state enterprises. These enterprises have been hitherto allowed to exchange these claims for
shares in enterprises subject to privatization. However, the Government has concluded that the
process by which these claims have been extinguished lacks transparency. Doubts have also been
raised about the accuracy of estimates of outstanding claims. Therefore, the Government has
established a unit to carefully review each claim and will subsequently issue a Resolution along the
following lines: (i) no enterprises in which the state owns more than 25 percent of the share capital
may exchange claims for shares in enterprises subject to privatization; and (ii) claims will be
exchanged for shares only through competitive processes organized by SPM (eg. open, competitive
auctions). Claim holders will be allowed to freely trade (i.e. buy, sell and barter) their claims.
59.    Privatization will produce millions of new shareholders and requires an efficient share
registry. In order to avoid the problems inherent to enterprise-managed registries, the Government
has decided to allow the private sector to operate registries with licensing authority vested with the
Ministry of Finance. In February 1996, the Ministry of Finance and SPM established the necessary
regulations. Thereafter, the Government will issue a decree requiring joint-stock companies to
maintain a share registry with a licensed independent registrar.
60.    Privatization of the Bread Corporation. The Government's program, as supported by the
Rehabilitation Credit, developed in mid-1995 a plan to break up the state bread making and poultry
corporation (SBC), and to privatize its units. SBC is the largest state producer in the food and
agriculture sector and still represents about 80 percent of the bread market. Although the plan's
implementation schedule is slower than originally agreed, the Government remains committed to
privatizing SBC: in addition to two mills, all retail units and small bakeries of SBC were privatized
by February 1996 and the Government intends to privatize all large bakeries and at least 10 mills by
second tranche. At the same time, the Government will liberalize the price of bread and remove



- 15 -
profit margin controls on grain and flour. The privatization of the remaining 4 mills will be
completed by the end of 1996.
61.    Restructuring and Privatizing Energy Utilities. Sakgazi, which operates Georgia's high-
pressure gas pipelines, remains under 100 percent state ownership. However, Sakenergo, the state-
owned power generation and transmission company, which operates three thermal plants and more
than 100 hydrostations, has begun a restructuring and privatization program. About 10 hydrostations
had been privatized by mid-1995, and a few more operate under leasing arrangements. In addition,
in May 1995, Sakenergo spun off roughly 40 municipal electricity distributors. This restructuring
program was ill-prepared, lacking an adequate regulatory framework governing wholesale tariffs and
transactions, and led to the poorest collection performance ever (see para. 48). Moreover, many of
the new companies face problems of conmmercial viability.
62.    The Government is now aware that successful privatization requires that a framework for
sector regulation be first put in place, and the sector be restructured into commercially viable units
suitable for privatization. To address this issue, the Committee on Power Industry Restructuring
established in October 1995 will first make recommendations for the establishment of a legal and
regulatory framework, including setting up an autonomous energy regulatory agency. The agency
would be in charge of regulating tariffs for gas and electricity, licensing energy operators,
implementing rules that promote inter-fuel competition and prevent monopoly abuses, ensuring fair
commercial use of Georgia's energy infrastructure, and promoting energy conservation and least-cost
supply policies. The Commission's additional mandate is to make recommendations for the
restructuring of the sector, corporatization and privatization of sector enterprises. Based on the
Commnittee's recommendations, and in consultation with the Bank, the Government intends to issue a
decree defining the proper regulatory framework and related institutional setup and to adopt a plan
for power sector restructuring and privatization of sector enterprises.
63.    Privatization of Land. About 21 percent of agricultural land and 47 percent of cultivated land
(630,000 ha.) is now in private hands. Although this percentage is still low, private agriculture plays
a central role. Unlike in other former Soviet states, collective and state farming has nearly come to a
halt and the private sector has become the dominant source of domestic supply. Further development
of agriculture thus rests on a rapid completion of agricultural reforms - primarily transferring
remaining land and other productive assets to individuals - and appropriate definition of property
rights to create conditions for a functioning land market. The Government intends to expedite the
process of land reform. In March 1996, Parliament adopted a law on land ownership which gives
rights to buy, sell, lease and inherit land that is already in private use. Enactment of the law will be
followed by the preparation and adoption by second tranche, of a land registration and titling law.
The Government has also developed a plan for distributing and privatizing part of the remaining land
(about 240,000 ha.) over a period of one year. This will bring the percentage of cultivated land
under private ownership to over 60 percent (land located in Abkhazia/Ossetia is currently excluded
from the privatization program, as well as land used by research and extension farms). Finally, the
Government intends to lease on a competitive basis land that will remain under state ownership and
envisages to grant transferable leasing rights. To that end, the Government will adopt the legal
framework specifying leasing arrangements to make public land available for private use.
Enforcing Hard Budget Constraints
64.    Despite the rapid privatization of small enterprises and the adoption of an aggressive program



- 16 -
to privatize medium-size and large enterprises, many enterprises will remain under partial or full state
ownership in the short run. Restructuring and efficiency improvements in these firms are likely to be
delayed unless they are subject to financial discipline and competitive pressures.
65.   In principle, hard budget constraints have been imposed in Georgia since the fall of 1994.
But experience shows that direct budgetary support is not the only channel through which budgetary
constraints can be softened. Other channels include accumulation of tax arrears, interenterprise
arrears, and continued lending through state banks. The potential for soft constraints is particularly
high in the case of large, politically powerful enterprises, which can often circumvent budget
constraints by pressuring authorities to delay tax bills or to continue lending through state banks,
despite their inability to service existing obligations. Such enterprises may need to be isolated from
the banking sector to stem the flow of losses until they can be restructured and privatized, or
liquidated. The situation in Georgia does not warrant this approach in the short term. While there
are politically powerful enterprises in Georgia, no major enterprise - except gas and electricity utilities
- has been favored by the banks recently. The privatization of banks now underway and restructuring
of the banking sector will further reduce the risk of such treatment (see para. 70). In addition, data
on enterprise arrears show that most relate to energy. Hard budget constraints will thus be best
enforced through improved collection of energy payments. Strengthening tax administration will also
help. Maintaining these policies and monitoring their impact over the medium term will be
particularly important as the risk of soft budget constraints may reappear with the improvement of the
fiscal situation.
Restructuring the Financial Sector
66.    Besides the NBG, the financial system inherited from the FSU consisted primarily of five state
banks (Savings Bank, Industrial Bank, Eximbank, Agrobank, and Housing Bank). In addition
numerous new private banks have emerged since independence. In September 1995 there were 130
banks and near-banks operating in Georgia (down from 229 in March 1995), albeit many with just a
name plate and a couple of customers. Following the merger of the Savings Bank, Industrial Bank
and Eximbank to form the United Bank of Georgia, the state banks are only three, but they dominate
the sector with about 75 percent of total banking assets. Hyperinflation eroded the real value of all
nominal claims, including bank deposits and loans, as well as confidence in the banking system.
Banking assets, at some US$175 million in September 1995, account for less than 7 percent of GDP.
Inflation is now under check but confidence in the banking sector must be earned back by resolute,
credible actions of the authorities.
67.    Such actions have begun. The Government is proceeding with a strategy developed in
collaboration with the IMF and the World Bank, which, in its initial stage, focused on establishing a
legal framework for the banking sector and strengthening the National Bank supervisory function. In
June 1995 Parliament approved the National Bank Law, which establishes the legal basis for an
independent NBG to conduct monetary policy, and the Government complemented this law with a
Commercial Banking Law adopted in February 1996. With technical assistance from the IMF, the
National Bank Supervision Department is undertaking reorganization and strengthening its capacity for
on-site bank examination (100 are projected for this year) and off-site surveillance. New prudential
standards were issued in February 1995, that apply to all banks, including state-controlled banks.
Because of the higher minimum capital level (US$100,000) now required for banks, numerous banks
had their licenses revoked (30 of these banks are already in the final phase of liquidation). As a
result, the number of banks has decreased, and only 50 to 70 banks are expected to remain by mid-



- 17 -
1996. A further increase of the minimum capital level (planned for later in 1996) will lead to a
further reduction in the number of banks.
68.    Despite these initial steps, the financial sector remains in perilous shape. Many licensed
banks are either insolvent or inactive, and all but 30 fail to operate in accord with prudential banking
standards. The three major banks have severe asset problems and a negative net worth. The merged
bank is the largest in terms of number of branches, with 40 percent of total banking assets.
69.    The Government is aware that fostering savings mobilization and efficient intermediation by
the banking sector is critical for the economy's recovery. At this stage its strategy is to ensure that
banks restructure rapidly without jeopardizing the Government's budget, and to promote competition
between sound private banks. Implementing this strategy implies privatizing the former state banks,
preventing non-viable banks from expanding until they meet all of the NBG's requirements, and
encouraging the consolidation and merger of small private banks and branches of larger banks with
sound banks.
70.    Unlike other FSU countries, Georgia made rapid progress in privatizing state-owned banks.
In 1995 the state permitted the merger of three state-owned banks into one entity and began
privatizing all remaining state-owned banks largely to their managers and employees. By February
1996 the state had eliminated its direct ownership in the merged bank (United Bank of Georgia), the
Agrobank and the Bank of Georgia (former Housing Bank). The buyers did not demand that the
loan portfolio be guaranteed or that its negative net worth first be recapitalized (the valuation of banks
shares included only buildings). In addition, the ownership of government-controlled enterprises
(defined as 25 percent or more state-owned) was reduced to less than 20 percent. The Government is
convinced that privatization of banks will reduce the likelihood of a government bail-out in case of
bank failure and will create incentives to improve operations in a cost-effective way. It is committed
not to increase its direct and indirect ownership from their current level.
71.    The second set of measures is to restrict the activities of the non-complying banks until they
meet all of the NBG's prudential requirements. The certification of banks which comply with the
NBG's prudential requirements has begun at the end of 1995. The NBG will either prevent all non-
certified banks from accepting additional deposits or impose a 100 percent marginal reserve
requirement. In addition, no cash dividends will be allowed until the banks are certified. This will
force banks to address the source of their problems (poor lending decisions and high operating costs)
and will not permit them to overcome illiquidity by attracting deposits through excessive interest
rates. The NBG will enforce this if necessary by transferring any nominal increase in deposits (both
household and enterprise) into a non-interest bearing reserve account with the NBG from funds
passing through the banks' correspondent accounts.
72.    The third set of measures involves the restructuring of the banks. In April 1996 the NBG and
the three major non-complying banks (the United Bank of Georgia, the Agrobank, and the Bank of
Georgia) will agree on a timetable, with monthly or quarterly benchmarks to monitor progress toward
meeting all prudential requirements. If the prudential ratios do not improve as agreed in the
timetable, the deviating bank will be given one month to return to the agreed timetable. It could do
so either by selling assets or finding additional private equity. Once the delay has expired, the NBG
will either withdraw the licenses of selected branches or force their sale to other banks, thereby
obtaining the funds necessary to enable the bank to adhere to its agreed timetable. This last approach
will be particularly effective in dealing with the United Bank of Georgia which has inherited the vast



- 18 -
branch network of the former Savings Bank. Adherence to the agreed timetables will be enforced or
appropriate penalties will be imposed. Similar timetables will be agreed upon with all other non-
complying banks. Small private banks unable to meet minimum prudential standards will be
encouraged to restructure through merger or self-liquidation.
73.   As part of this overall strategy, neither the Government nor the NBG will insure banking
deposits because they would distort incentives. The Government and NBG will not oppose private
banks organizing mutual insurance schemes or purchasing private insurance, but will not take any
responsibility for this.
74.    To implement this strategy, the NBG has strengthened its supervisory function by setting up a
bank certification program. Only banks fully complying with the prudential banking standards will be
certified. The restriction that household deposits cannot exceed capital will be gradually relaxed for
banks which are certified, and a decree to this effect has been issued in November 1995. The
Government intends to support the development of those banks found to be sound and viable, and
technical assistance and credit lines from multilateral agencies will be directed only toward the banks
which have been certified. Some of this institutional development support will be provided by the
Agriculture project under preparation, which will complement the policy measures supported under
the proposed SAC.
Fostering Export Growth
75.    One goal of trade policy is to encourage the building of productive activities in which Georgia
has a true comparative advantage, while avoiding incentives to revive inefficient activities and trade
patterns. Both theory and experience show that this goal is best met by creating an open trade regime
with minimal anti-export bias in the incentive structure and with institutions supportive of export
development.
76.   Georgia starts from a good base, with its fairly low (12 percent) and uniform import tariff (on
non-barter trade with non-CIS countries). Maintaining this tariff policy, with the eventual goal of
reducing tariff further when fiscal considerations permit, will help to avoid the kind of implicit anti-
export bias created in many other countries by incentives to produce domestically goods that can be
imported more efficiently. Until recently however, barter trade with non-CIS countries was taxed at
20 percent. As there is no reason to discriminate against barter trade the Government has reduced the
duty on barter trade to 12 percent, the same rate as that on non-barter imports in February 1996.
77.   The main trade policy issue in Georgia is export policy. Export industries, including
agricultural products, have traditionally been subject to export restrictions. These restrictions were
designed to protect domestic producers that used these products as inputs, to keep prices low for
domestic consumers, and to provide leverage to force enterprises to fill their quota under the state
order system. These controls created large implicit taxes on exports. Much progress was made on
this front with the elimination of the export tax at the end of 1994, the abolition of the state order
system, and the removal of export licensing requirements on 18 products in 1995. Progress
notwithstanding, at the end of 1995 export licenses were still required for 9 groups of products and
export prohibitions for 10 groups of products.
78.   Removal of Export Prohibitions and Licensing. The Government has now recognized that
prohibitions and export licensing requirements create obstacles for exporters, and that there are better



- 19 -
ways to handle any legitimate concerns for which they are used. In addition, since the prices of most
of these products (except bread) are no longer controlled, it can no longer be argued that their export
will be encouraged by artificially low domestic prices. Thus in November 1995, the Government
issued a decree eliminating export prohibitions and removing requirements for licensing from most
exports (except for the standard list of exceptions). In the case of scrap metal , the export
prohibition will be eliminated and temporarily replaced by an export tax. A plan for the phasing out
and discontinuation of the tax will be adopted.
79.    As a temporary measure, exporters of 5 types of goods' will be required to register export
contracts ex ante with the Government. The registration mechanism will be transparent and will be
used only for purposes of health and safety control and to reduce tax evasion through underinvoicing.
With technical assistance from the World Bank and the UNDP, the Government will put in place
alternative, more appropriate, mechanisms to address these concerns and by second tranche, will
eliminate the transitional system of ex ante registration. Tax laws applying to exporters will be
enforced by the Tax Inspectorate and Customs service in accordance with their normal procedures,
based on ex post monitoring and investigation when there is cause for suspicion of non-compliance.
80.    Export Promotion. After removing direct barriers to exports, the challenge is to create an
appropriate enabling environment. Constraints facing potential exporters in Georgia include lack of
contacts and information for marketing abroad, lack of adequate technology to produce high-quality
goods for export markets, high cost of imported inputs, unavailability of trade finance, and poor
infrastructure.
81.    A number of these constraints could be mitigated by encouraging foreign investment. Top
priority needs to be given to enacting an adequate foreign investment code. The current law has a
number of positive features, including granting foreign investors unlimited rights to repatriate profits,
but is also deficient in several areas. It requires approval of investments based on rather vague
criteria and relies on tax holidays as fiscal incentives for attracting investors. By second tranche, the
Government will amend the law to resolve these problems. The amended code will introduce a
system of expeditious approval of investments, with certain clearly delineated exceptions based on
national security concerns. In recognition that temporary concessions and holidays generally are not
effective in attracting efficient investment, the code will not contain such fiscal incentives.
82.    Priority should also be given to setting up the institutional framework for free trade zones in
Georgia. These zones can serve as useful stop-gap devices, since they allow the quick resolution of
some problems (infrastructure, lack of duty-free regime for exporters) that will take longer to resolve
on an economy-wide basis. Similarly, the Government should move to improve the system of
customs warehouses or private bonded warehouses to encourage importers of inputs to pay duties only
as they use or sell the goods. This would benefit both exporters who use imported goods, and other
importers. It would also give modest relief to entrepreneurs complaining about tax burden without
risking loss of tax revenues altogether. In the long run, tax exemption and drawback schemes for
exporters are also useful instruments for export promotion. At this stage of institutional development,
however, it is better to concentrate on administratively less demanding mechanisms.
31     The five goods are ferrous metals, manganese/copper concentrates, mineral water, alcoholic beverages and
tea.



- 20 -
83.    To implement this strategy of support for exporters, the Government will put in place several
types of schemes (with technical assistance from the World Bank and UNDP). First, the current legal
framework for bonded warehouses will be improved. Producers that export virtually all of their
production will be exempted up front from payment of duties, VAT, and excise taxes on their
imported inputs. Second, the Government will establish a legal framework for free trade zones.
Services for exporters also need to be improved. One step in that direction will be to allow for
reincorporation as private companies the former state trading corporations, Gruzimpex and
Agroimpex freeing these organizations from the constraints of the public sector and allowing them to
raise capital on their own. Another step will be to expand the volume of trade finance which is now
quite limited. To that effect, the Government intends to review and improve the law governing
negotiable instruments.
PART III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.    Background and Objectives
84.    A limited country assistance strategy for Georgia was discussed by the Board on March 30,
1995 as part of the President's Report for the Rehabilitation Credit, and the proposed credit is
consistent with that strategy. The objectives of the strategy are to help reverse the sharp economic
decline of the past few years, to accelerate the transition to a market economy and to alleviate the
poverty that has recently emerged in Georgia. A full Country Assistance Strategy will be prepared
in FY97.
B.    Bank/IDA Assistance to Date
85.    During the first two years of Georgia's membership4 in the Bank, the development of a
comprehensive assistance program was hindered by the civil conflicts. During that period, the Bank
focused on building macroeconomic and sector knowledge, and providing limited technical
assistance. A Country Economic Memorandum was prepared (and distributed to the Board in May
1993) and introductory missions on transport, agriculture and the environrment took place.
86.   Improvements of the political situation at the end of 1993 and new emphasis of the
Government on economic issues in early 1994 opened the way for initiating a broader assistance
program. The Institutional Building Credit (US$10 million), approved by the Board in July 1994,
provides support to the country's privatization efforts, financial sector reform, tax and customs
administration, and economic policy development. Implementation is advanced and the project has
played a key role in facilitating an acceleration of structural reforms, in particular of privatization.
During the summer of 1994, the Bank prepared a Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Credit
(US$18 million) which addresses the severe deterioration of municipal infrastructure in Tbilisi and
other large cities. Implementation of this project, approved by the Board in November 1994, is
proceeding satisfactorily. In January 1996, the Board approved a Transport Rehabilitation Project
(US$12 million), to support policy reform in the transport sector, and to repair and maintain some of
the most critical elements of Georgia's transport system. In addition to these activities, Georgia is
benefiting from the GEF-funded Black Sea Environmental Program jointly executed by the Bank,
4/    Georgia joined the World Bank in August 1992



- 21 -
UNDP, and UNEP. With the aim of addressing environmental problems along the Black Sea Coast
and in the coastal zone, and in coordination with the Municipal Infrastructure project, technical
assistance and project funds are directed toward wastewater treatment and solid management in Poti
and Batumi and the establishment of a national park in coastal wetlands.
87.    Following the agreement with the IMF on a program of macroeconomic stabilization
supported by a first purchase under the STF facility, the Bank prepared a Rehabilitation Credit to
support the Government's structural reform program. This credit (approved by the Board on March
30, 1995) provided US$75 million of quick-disbursing balance of payments support. Disbursement is
complete and implementation of the reforms supported by the credit has been strong (see detailed
description in Part I and in Annex 1). Overall, IDA lending during FY95 amounted to US$103
million. This large allocation reflected the judgment that it was crucial to catalyze market-oriented
reforms and that such a lending level could make a difference between the success or failure of
reform efforts.
88.    To gain more in-depth understanding of the constraints and possibilities of the Georgian
economy, an Economic Update was completed in November 1994. The Bank also undertook ESW
on agriculture, transport, energy, municipal services, and health. In addition, the Bank organized and
chaired an informal donor meeting in July 1994 and a follow-up session specifically on urgent energy
needs. The Bank also chaired a first Consultative Group meeting in November 1994 to mobilize
support of stabilization and structural reform from the international donor community.
C.    The Lending Program
89.    The World Bank's lending strategy addresses Georgia's primary economic constraints and
promotes policy reform and investments required to resume economic growth and reduce poverty.
Given Georgia's difficult fiscal situation, much of the program concentrates on improving the cost-
effectiveness of government programs and on redirecting public sector involvement in the economy,
with the aim of providing a favorable environment for private sector development. Special emphasis
is put on programs aimed at improving the social safety net and at ensuring access to basic services
by the poor.
90.    All three projects approved in FY95, the transport project approved by the Board in January
1996, and the proposed SAC fit within this strategy as do projects under advanced preparation in the
health, energy and agriculture sectors. It was assumed in the limited CAS for FY96-98 that continued
progress in stabilization and in the main areas of reforms would enable a medium case program of
US$150-180 million of IDA over the three years and IBRD lending starting only after 1998. Strong
and sustained progress in stabilization and implementation of an economy-wide reform program,
accompanied by fiscal strengthening, export development and overall supply response would
strengthen Georgia's creditworthiness earlier and justify moving to a high-case program of US$250
million (including US$70 million from the IBRD starting in 1997). Both scenarios5 would include
5/    The medium case assumed continued progress on small-scale privatization, substantial progress on trade
liberalization, introduction of a legal framework for land reform, and adoption of energy sector reforms. The high
case assumed progress on privatization of medium- and large-scale privatization, enforcement of financial discipline
and improved targeting of the social safety net.



- 22 -
adjustment operations. IBRD lending would only be considered if adequate creditworthiness could be
established and in the context of a full CAS. Over the last 12 months, rapid progress in
implementing stabilization and structural reform policies has meant that most of the high case triggers
specified in the limited CAS have been met. Georgia is currently performing at a level between the
suggested medium and high cases. Strong implementation of the proposed SAC would imply that all
triggers for the high case would have been met.
91.   If stabilization and structural reform policies were to be reversed, assistance would be reduced
to a low case program of about US$20-25 million a year on IDA terms only. Under such a scenario,
policy-based lending would not be considered and investment projects would focus on basic
infrastructure and the social sector. The objective would be to avoid the deterioration of critically-
needed infrastructure and to maintain a basic level of social protection.
D.    Economic and Sector Work Program
92.    The Bank's lending program is supported by economic and sector work in the following
areas: macroeconomic stability and growth, public sector efficiency, private sector development,
and poverty alleviation. In the macro area the Bank will continue to update the status of structural
reforms and to place them in a medium-term framework through the preparation of policy notes. To
foster public sector efficiency, the Bank is undertaking a review of public expenditures. This work is
taking advantage of, and build upon, the ongoing and planned work in energy, transport and health.
It will include work on public sector labor and employment policies, education and social protection.
In the area of private sector development, the Bank has completed a review of the agriculture sector
and is planning to initiate an assessment of the financial sector, augmenting the substantial work and
technical assistance carried out in some of these areas under the IBC. Using household survey work
financed under the IBC, a poverty assessment will be undertaken to measure the incidence of poverty,
help identify most vulnerable groups and recommend means of targeting poverty reduction measures.
E.    MIGA and IFC Activities
93.   Georgia became a member of MIGA in December 1992. To date there have been no
investment guarantees issued. Georgia joined IFC in June 1995. A mission to assess the climate for
foreign investment took place in December 1995. Possible IFC investments are under consideration.
PART IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.    Background and Rationale for World Bank Involvement
94.   Georgia initiated the transition to a market economy under difficult conditions. After
suffering from the aftermath of two years of civil conflicts and political instability, over the past year
and a half, the Government has been implementing a stabilization and structural reform program that
has already succeeded in curbing inflation, stabilizing the exchange rate and slowing down the rate of
economic decline. Economic recovery will require the pursuit and deepening of the economy-wide
reform process underway. In the short run, it will operate under sharp financial constraints (weak
fiscal stance and large external obligations) . The proposed credit aims at ensuring the sustainability
of the stabilization process underway and at fostering a strong and sustained growth recovery. It will
be instrumental in maintaining the reform momentum. The proceeds of the credit would finance



- 23 -
critical imports needed to foster growth recovery and would provide budgetary support to maintain a
level of basic public expenditures. The project funds will be utilized within the overall budget
envelope supported by the Standby Arrangement (SBA) and the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF), and thus the local counterpart funds generated through the sale of the foreign
exchange will provide non-inflationary financing for the Government's public expenditure program.
The project should also provide a framework for the provision of financial assistance from other
donor agencies.
B.    Program to be Supported
95.   The Government's program of structural reform to be supported by this Structural Adjustment
Credit is outlined in Part I and in the attached Letter of Development Policy (Annex 6). The
structural reform program described in the Letter complements the macroeconomic stabilization
program supported by the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) approved by the
Executive Board of the IMF on February 28, 1996.
96.   The measures which were taken by the Government as a result of agreements reached during
preparation of the proposed Credit are:
Streamlining the Government Sector and Improving Efficiency of Public Spending
Allocation of Public Expenditures
*     The share of public expenditures allocated to both health and education in the 1996 state
budget has been increased to reach about 7% for health and 8% for education.
Education
*     A plan of action for the education sector was adopted. This plan gives priority in the
allocation of public expenditures to basic education and targeted population groups, fosters the
creation of private schools and the participation of families in the financing of education,
encourages local initiatives for staff compensation, and sets targets for reducing the number of
educational personnel paid out of public budgets and for modifying the pay structure.
Social Protection
*     The retirement age has been increased from 60 to 65 for men and from 55 to 60 for women.
*     The contribution rate to the Employment Fund has been reduced by 2 percentage points.
Spending from the Fund is now limited to unemployment benefits and operating costs; all
other programs have been discontinued. In addition, the contribution rate to the United Fund
for Social Security (in the non-budgetary sector) has been reduced by 8 percentage points.
Eliminating Energy Subsidies
*     In October 1995, the Government created a Special Commission on Energy Payments, which
is authorized to take steps to improve collection of payments. A monitoring system with
monthly reporting has been established and the Chairman of the Commission has issued an



- 24 -
order to Sakenergo and the distribution companies to ensure timely collection of the necessary
data.
*     Sakenergo's use of imported fuel and power is now limited to arrangements that clearly
specify the price and repayment terms in advance. Imports are allowed only to the extent that
Sakenergo has sufficient funds to finance their cash costs on a current basis. A special
account has been set up with electricity payment collections as primary source of funding.
Borrowed funds will not exceed US$6 million at any point of time and will not benefit from
government guarantee.
Fostering Adjustment of the Productive Sector
Privatization and Enterprise Reform
*     A  decree amending resolution #249 has been issued and reduces the number of enterprises
which will remain 100 percent state-owned.
*      A total of 6,700 small enterprises and 125 medium- and large-scale enterprises have been
privatized.
*     Guidelines and procedures to be applied to auctions and tenders for the sale of residual shares
of medium- and large-scale enterprises have been issued.
The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Property Management have established
procedures for authorizing private sector entities to operate private share registries.
*     All retail units and small bakeries of the State Bread Corporation have been privatized.
Land Reform
*     A law on land ownership defining the legal framework for transactions related to land
including sale, lease and inheritance has been adopted by Parliament.
Financial Sector
*     The privatization of former state-owned banks has been completed. The direct ownership of
the Government has been reduced to zero and the indirect ownership through state-owned
enterprises has been reduced to less than 20 percent.
*     All commercial banks have been notified of the certification program and informed that the
activities of non-complying banks will be restricted until existing capital, reserve and other
prudential requirements are satisfied. Payment of dividends by non-complying banks will be
prevented.
Trade
*     The tariff rate on barter trade has been unified with the rate for other imports (12%).



- 25 -
*      A decree has been issued eliminating prohibitions on the export of all products, with the
exceptions of antiquities and artwork of museum value, weapons, and metal scrap.
*      A  decree has been issued eliminating all requirements for licensing exports, with the
exceptions of 1) materials for mineralogical, biological, archaeological, paleontological,
ethnographic and numismatic collections; 2) seeds of Caucasian fir trees; 3) timber and logs;
and 4) raw materials for medicines of animal or vegetal origin. Licenses for export of logs
and timber will be given automatically upon demonstration that the trees were cut in
accordance with conservation regulations. As a transitional measure, a non-restrictive
mechanism of ex ante registration of export contracts is set up for five products.
97.    Agreement on a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor progress toward meeting
NBG prudential requirements for the three major non-complying banks is a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed Credit.
98.    Proposed Second Tranche Conditions are as follows:
*      Comply satisfactorily with the collection targets for electricity at the end-consumer level,
and between Sakenergo and the distribution companies, as agreed with IDA (see para. 49).
i      Submit to Parliament legislation regulating voluntary private pension schemes.
i      Complete the privatization or initiation of liquidation of all 7,200 small enterprises and of an
additional 200 medium- and large-scale enterprises.
*      Amend the following decrees: #875 (December 26, 1994; #22 (January 28, 1995); #81
(February 17, 1995); #12 (February 17, 1995); #248 (May 10, 1995); #166 (May 14, 1995);
#228 (June 11, 1995); and #303 (August 7, 1995), to allow privatization of all enterprises
listed in the above decrees except for those in which the Government would keep 51 percent
of shares for reasons of national security.
*      Offer for sale all remaining bakeries and at least 10 mills of the State Bread Corporation;
liberalize the price of bread and remove profit margin controls on flour and grain.
*      Make satisfactory progress in the distribution of the land that remains to be privatized;
establish the legal framework for land titling and land registration; and adopt procedures,
satisfactory to IDA, for leases to make remaining public land available for private use.
*      Adhere satisfactorily to timetables for compliance with prudential ratios for the three major
banks (or impose appropriate penalties).
*.     Eliminate ex ante registration requirements of export contracts.
*      Amend the code governing foreign investment to introduce a system of expeditious approval
of investments, with clearly delineated exceptions based on national security concerns, and to
remove preferential tax treatment for foreign investors.
99.    In addition, satisfactory implementation of the overall reform program described in the Letter



- 26 -
of Development Policy (Annex 6), with particular focus on the key reform measures listed in an
attachment to the Letter will be required for second tranche release.
C.    Project Implementation
100.  The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) of SDR 41.3 million (equivalent of US$
60 million) would be made to the Republic of Georgia represented by the Ministry of Finance.
Disbursements will be made into a Ministry of Finance (MOF) account with the NBG specially set
up for this purpose. The NBG will withdraw the foreign exchange as and when needed to meet
market demand from both the public and private sectors and will reimburse the MOF at that time with
the equivalent local currency at the market exchange rate. The exchange rate to be applied will be
determined by the inter-bank foreign currency auction market. This market was established in 1993
by the NBG and auctions are held daily since January 1996. The volume of transactions going
through the inter-bank auction has greatly expanded over the last year as stabilization and structural
reforms strengthened the role of market forces in allocating foreign exchange.
101.  The credit will be released in two tranches of equal size: the first on effectiveness and the
second on fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions outlined above. The credit would be
on standard IDA terms, including a 35 year maturity and a 10 year grace period. A technical
assistance credit in the amount of SDR 3.3 million (equivalent of US$4.8 million), prepared in
parallel to the SAC, would support implementation of the measures contained in the LDP.
102.  The Aide to the President for Economic Reforms will oversee, coordinate, and monitor
implementation of the policy reform program. He will be assisted by the ministries concerned,
including those of Economy, Finance, Agriculture, State Property Management, Labor and Social
Protection and the NBG.
103.  A senior official has been appointed as project manager. The project manager will be
responsible for preparing the simplified withdrawal applications, maintaining the project's Deposit
Account and if requested by the Association arranging for its timely audit, and monitoring overall
credit implementation. On the basis of the information from the various agencies involved in the
implementation of this credit, the project manager will prepare the Borrower's contribution to the
Project Completion Report within six months of the closing date.
D.    Disbursements
104.  The Borrower will open an account in the National Bank of Georgia. Upon notification by
the Association of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the credit will be deposited by the
Association in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the
proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-
member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the Association will require the
Borrower to either (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund
the amount directly to the Association, in which case the Association will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the credit.
E.    Accounts, Auditing, and Closing Date
105.  Although routine audit of the Deposit Account will not be required, the Association reserves



- 27 -
the right to require it. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed within six months of the release of
the second tranche. It is therefore proposed that the closing date of the credit be December 31, 1997.
F.    Environmental Safety
106.  The project will have no direct impact on the environment. For the purposes of Operational
Directive 4.01, it has therefore been placed in Category C which does not require an environmental
assessment.
G.    Poverty Category.
107.  The proposed credit is poverty-focused since it will support improvements in the targeting of
social benefits to the poorest groups.
H.    Agreements Reached
108.   At negotiations, agreement was reached on: (a) the attached Letter of Development Policy,
outlining the Government's reform program and the timing of implementation; (b) the standard
negative list of goods precluded from financing under the proposed credit; and (d) accounting and
auditing arrangements.
I.     Benefits and Risks
109.  Benefits. The main benefits of the credit would be to ensure the sustainability of the
stabilization process and to consolidate and deepen the structural changes initiated a year and a half
ago after a long period of economic and political turmoil. Over the last months, inflation has been
curbed and economic decline has slowed but the situation remains precarious. The deepening of the
reform process should consolidate recent achievements, accelerate the transition to a market economy,
and lead to sustained growth recovery and improvements in living standards. The proposed credit
would contribute to a further downsizing of the state-controlled sector and efficiency gains in the use
of public resources. It would induce adjustment of enterprises to new market signals and thus foster
productivity gains, thereby increasing savings and investment. The balance of payments support
would finance imports critical to economic activity, and the local counterpart funds would provide
budgetary support to ease the fiscal adjustment and to maintain a basic level of public expenditures, in
particular for social sectors and infrastructure.
110.   Risks. The main risk is that adequate and timely external assistance of the magnitude required
will not be forthcoming, threatening public support for reforms and the success of the reform
program. The macroeconomic prospects are such that even with timely implementation of reforms,
Georgia's economy will not reach the 1990 levels of per-capita consumption before the end of the
century; savings are also likely to remain negative until 1997. The failure to achieve a fully funded
program would force a much stronger domestic adjustment and a lower growth path, imposing
additional social costs to the population. To address this problem, the Bank will not only provide
continuous financial support, but it will also assist Georgia in mobilizing external resources through
the Consultative Group process and other donor coordination efforts. A second risk is that the terms
at which bilateral creditors agree to reschedule existing claims may be inconsistent with the country's
capacity to pay, lowering the prospects for the attainment of external viability over the medium
term. This risk is being addressed through a debt strategy developed in agreement with the IMF and



- 28 -
on-going negotiations with bilateral creditors. A third risk is delayed implementation due to weak
institutional capacity within the Government and other executing agencies. To date, technical
assistance has been essential in assisting the Government in the design and implementation of reforms.
The Bank will make continuous effort, partly by providing a technical assistance credit and partly by
mobilizing external technical assistance, to provide the much needed support. It is also expected that
the reorganization of the Government following the enactment of the new Constitution will improve
economic management.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
111.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the IDA
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Gautam S. Kaji
Acting President
Washington D.C.
March 20, 1996



Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY MEASURES AGREED UPON UNDER THE REHABILITATION CREDIT
MhEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO BOARD  |  PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION SINCE MARCH 1995   |   COMMENTS
PRESENTATION                                 .
I. MACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION
STF approved in December 1994.                 All end-June 1995 quantitative performance criteria agreed upon with  Stabilization laid the
SBA approved in June 1995.                     the IMF met by significant margins.                              ground work for the
introduction of a new
Average monthly inflation fell from an average of 64% in the first  national currency, the lari,
three quarters of 1994 to 3% in the first 9 months of 1995.      on September 25, 1995.
Exchange rate of the coupon appreciated from 5 million per US$ in
September 1994 to nearly 1.3 million at end 1994 and stabilized
since then.
A. Fiscal Policy
Reduction of subsidies through sharp price     Implementation of all measures led to budget deficit reduced from  Reduction in budget deficit
increases for bread, gas and electricity, as of  nearly 50% of GDP during the first half of 1994 to 8.5% of GDP in  achieved mainly through
September 1994; monetization of wheat grants;    the first half of 1995. Deficit at about 6% of GDP for the whole of   sharp cuts in expenditures,
increase in tax rates and improvements in tax  1995.                                                            tax revenues remained at
administration; increases in social benefits and                                                                3.7% of GDP in 1995.
government wages; improvements in expenditure
control.
B. Monetary Policy
Restrictions on conversion of deposits lifted in  Compliance rate for reserve requirements increased from 50% in
September 1994.                                September 1994 to 83% in June 1995.
Reserve requirements orn foreign currency
deposits raised to same level as domestic
currency deposits; enforcements tightened since
September 1994.
Automatic access to overdraft facilities from the
NBG eliminated as of October 1994.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO BOARD                    PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATIONISMCH1995                                   COMMENTS
PRESENTATION                  :
II. REFORMS OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR
A. Transfer of Ownership rights to the Private
Sector
Privatization of Small-Scale Enterprises:     6,432 enterprises privatized by December 1995.                   Targets achieved.
Procedures simplified.
2,500 enterprises privatized (target exceeded).
Privatization of medium and large scale       840 enterprises corporatized by December 1995.                   Agreed measures
enterprises:                                  Mass Privatization Program launched in June 1995.                implemented and targets
737 enterprises corporatized; guidelines issued  20 auctions held from end June until December 1995.           achieved.
for completion of mass privatization program;
lists of voucher recipients completed;
list of enterprises to be sold at first three auctions
established;
selection of 15 enterprises for case-by case
privatization.
Privatization of housing:                      Preparation of legal framework for definition of ownership rights  Not yet approved by
Privatization of housing practically complete.  relative to communal space and facilities.                     Parliament.
Privatization of Land:
About 630,000 ha. of land distributed to private    Preparation and submission to Parliament of a draft land law:  Approval of law by
farmers;                                       (a) providing land in private use to farmers as their own property;  Parliament delayed until
Number of collective and state farms reduced  (b) giving rights to sell, buy, lease and inherit.               after elections.
from 1,433 to 609 between 1989 and 1994.       [still includes restrictive features]                           Distribution of remaining
land not yet started.
B. Imposition of hard-budget constraints to
SOEs
Imposition of hard budget constraints to SOEs:  Enforced throughout 1995
Subsidies and transfers to enterprises ceased as of
September 1994.
Identification of largest loss-making state-owned
enterprises.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO BOARD                   P PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION SINCE MARCH 1995   |   COMMENTS
PRESENTATION                   |                                                              l
C. Restructuring of the Govermment Sector
Strengthening of tax and customs administration (on-going).    Reduction in staff
Reduction of employees of the budgetary sector by 40% since    requirements exceeded
January.                                                       agreed target (25%).
Implementation of health reform underway.
Preparation of Education sector reform underway.
m. REFORMS AIMED AT IMPROVING EFFICIENCY OF MARKETS
A. Promoting Competition and Private Sector
Prices of gas increased to reflect import and  Price of rationed bread raised to 300,000 coupons per kg. in June  New bread price increase
distribution costs; price of electricity increased  1995.                                                    from 0.3 laris to 0.42 per
600 times for consumers, 10 times for         Price of gas readjusted in function of costs.                  kg. planned for February
enterprises.                                                                                                  1996.
Price of rationed bread increased from 700
coupons per kilo to 200,000 coupons per kg. in
September 1994, raised again to 280,000 coupons
in December 1994.
Cross-subsidization
Subway fares raised 50 times in September.    Subsidies for subway eliminated in April 1995.                 reintroduced through
changes in electricity
Law on entrepreneurship adopted in November   Foreign Investment Law adopted in June 1995.                   tariffs in July 1995.
1994.
Anti-monopoly law submitted to Parliament.
Demonopolization/Privatization Plan of the Bread Corporation   Implementation underway.
adopted in July 1995.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO BOARD                   PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION SINCE MARCH 1995   1    COMMENTS
PRESENTATION
B. Fostering Export Growth
Totality of surrender requirement channeled to  Elimination of state order system in June 1995.
NBG. Frequency of foreign exchange auctions
raised to twice a week.                       Surrender requirement eliminated in December 1995.
Restrictions on convertibility of deposits into cash
lifted. Import tax raised to 12%; 8% export tax    Further reduction in number of products subject to prohibitions and
eliminated.                                   licensing requirements.
Reduction of quotas under state order system.
Reduction of number of products subject to
prohibitions and licensing requirements.
C. Strengthening the Financial Sector
Directed credits from NBG and access to       Revised prudential regulations issued.                                                          L
overdraft facilities eliminated as of October 1994.  Development of interbank short-term credit facility.
Restrictions on use of accounts eliminated.   Diagnostic review of the 5 state banks completed in June 1995.
Privatization of state banks underway.
Licenses withdrawn from banks not complying with prudential
standards.
NBG Law approved by Parliament in June 1995.
IV. REFORMS OF THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET
Generalized subsidies for bread, electricity, gas    Increase (in real terms) in wages of budgetary sector, pensions and
and transportation replaced by targeted cash  other social benefits.
compensations.
Pensions denied to working pensioners.        Child allowances targeted to families with at least two children.
Pension supplements eliminated and adoption of
flat-rate benefits.
Childbirth and death benefits eliminated.



Annex 2
Page I of 3
Georgia: Main Economic Indicators
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001      2002       2003      2004      2005
Real Growth Rate
GDP                                 -11.4%    -5.0%      8.0%      10.0%     10.0%      8.0%      8.0%      8.0%      6.0%       6.0%      5.0%      5.0%
PrivateConsurnption                           -17.9%     0.9%      6.0%      5.6%       6.1%      5.8%      5.6%      4.2%       4.5%      3.7%      3.1%
Inflation (average)               17271.5%   169.3%    49.8%       10.0%     7.0%       6.2%      6.2%      6.2%      6.2%       6.2%      6.2%      6.2%
Inflation(endofperiod)             7144.0%    64.8%     23.1%      8.5%      6.6%       6.2%      6.2%      6.2%      6.2%       6.2%      6.2%      6.2%
Exports(GNFS)                                 -9.8%      9.4%      11.2%     12.7%     11.9%      10.1%     9.0%      7.6%       7.2%      7.0%      7.0%
Imports (GNFS)                                -10.6%     5.3%      11.7%     9.4%       8.9%      7.9%      6.3%      5.5%       5.4%      5.0%      5.0%
1994      1995      1996      1997       1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003       2004      2005
As % GDP
Exports                             38.0%      16.8%     10.8%     10.0%     10.0%      10.1%     10.1%     10.2%     10.2%     10 3%      10.4%     10.4%
Imports                             71.7%     29.0%      16.6%     14.4%     13.4%     12.9%      12.4%     12 1%     11.9%     11.5%      11.2%     11.0%
Resource Balance                   -33.7%    -12.2%      -5.8%     -4.4%     -3.4%     -2.8%      -2.3%     -I 9%     -1.6%     -1.2%      -0.9%     -0.6%
Current Account (Incld Grants)     -21.7%     -8.4%      -2.3%     -3.2%     -3.2%     -2.9%      -2.5%     -2.2%     -2.0%     -1.7%      -1.4%     -1.2%
Current Account (Excid Grants)      -36.0%    -15.3%     -7.2%     -5.4%     -4 2%     -3.7%      -3.1%     -2 7%     -2.4%     -2.0%      -1.7%     -1.4%
Domestic Savings                   -33.4%     -8.6%      -0.6%     3.6%      7.8%      10.4%      12.4%     14.2%     15.6%     16.8%      17 5%     18.3%
Investment                          0.3%       3.6%      5.1%      8.0%      11.2%      13.2%     14.7%     16 1%     17.2%     18.0%      18.4%     18.9%
o/w: Public                        0.3%      1.0%       1.2%      2.2%      2.9%      3.6%      4.1%       4.5%      4.8%      4.8%      4.8%      4.9%
Government Revenue                   7.7%      7.1%      9.4%      11.3%     12.7%      14.1%     15.5%     16.6%     168%      17.3%      17.6%     17.6%
o/w:TaxRevenue                     3.7%      3.7%      6.7%       8.1%      9.7%      11.6%     13.2%     14.0%     14.6%      14.9%     14.9%     14.9%
Government Expenditure              24.2%      12.8%     12.8%     14.5%     15.7%      17.1%     18.2%     18.4%     18.5%     18.5%      18 5%     18.5%
Fiscal Deficit (Incld Grants)      -16.5%     -5.7%      -3.4%     -3.1%     -3.0%     -2.9%      -2.7%     -1.8%     -1.7%     -1.2%      -0.9%     -0.9%
Fiscal Deficit (Excld Grants)       -20.0%    -7.7%      -4.2%     -3.8%     -3.5%     -3.3%      -3.0%     -2.0%     -1.8%     -1.4%      - 1.0%    -1.0%



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Georgia: Balance of Payments (millions of US dollars)
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     2003      2004      2005
MerchandiseExports(FOB)               380.7    347.4    389.1    438.6    498.4    556.1    619.6    691.6    753.8    823.2    889.9    962.1
NonfactorServices                      92.2     114.3    123.8    160.8    191.2    220.8    246.7    281.1    312.7    346.3    383.1    421.4
Exports of GNFS                        472.9    461.7    512.9    599.3    689.6    777.0    866.4    972.7    1066.5   1169.4   1273.0   1383.5
Merchandise Imports (FOB)             746.0    690.4    702.3    758.3    814.3    877.7    936.5    1018.7   1088.2   1152.5   1217.1   1284.6
NonfactorServices                      147.3    105.4     83.2      102.2    110.4    118.5    127.0    137.5    146.8    155.4    164.7    175.0
hnportsofGNFS                          893.3    795.9    785.6    860.5    924.8    996.2    1063.5   1156.2   1235.0   1307.9   1381.8   1459.6
o/w: Energy                           190.6    105.0     95.3      105.6    117.2    128.7    141.2    154.2    165.5    176.5    187.9    199.1
Resource Balance                       420.4   -334.2   -272.6   -261.2   -235.2   -219.3   -197.2   -183.5   -168.5   -138.5   -108.8    -76.1
Net Factor hncome                      -28.0    -84.8    -70.1    -62.6    -58.3    -62.6    -65.5    -72.9    -81.6    -91.2    -100.8   -113.9
Factor Payments                       28.0      86.3     71.6      65.2      64.3     68.6      73.7      81.0     90.6      100.8    111.0    124.8
oAw Interest                        24.0      82.3      64.3     57.4      55.7      58.1     61.0      64.4      69.0     73.7      78.1      85.4
o/w. Profit Remittances              4.0      4.0       7.3       7.8       8.6      10.5     12.8      16,6      21.6     27.1      32.9      39.3
Factor Receipts                        0.0       1.4       1.5      2.6       5.9      6.0       8.2       8.1       8.9      9.6       10.2     10.9
Current Official Grants                170.0    189.0    234.0    133.0       71.0      61.0      49.0     44.0      40.0      36.0     32.0      29.0
Current Account Balance (Incld Grants)  -270.9   -230.()   -108.8   -190.8   -222.6   -220.9   -213.6   -212.4   -210 1    -193.7   -177.5   -161.0
Current Account Balance (Excld Grants)    -448.4   -419.0   -342.8   -323.8   -293.6   -281.9   -262.6   -256.4   -250 1    -229.7   -209.5   -190.0
Foreignlnvestment                       8.0      6.0       10.0     25.0      50.0      75.0     85.0      100.0    115.0    130.0    145.0    160.0
Net Long-Term Loans                    -31.0    -168.1     37.3      115.8    129.1    191.9    174.8    157.5    151.6    136.4    116.9         79.6
Disbursements                          86.0     105.0    126.5    227.3    150.5    207.2    267.4    295 3    331.1    324.7    333.7    340.7
Amortization                          117.0    273.1      89.2     111.5     21.5      15.3      92.6     137.8    179.5    188.3    216.8    261.!
Change inArrears                        0.0     119.0   -528.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Rescheduling                            0.0     224.0    500.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Other Capital Flows                     0.0      78.1      19.5      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Change in Reserves (-=increase)        42.5    -104.0    -13.0    -33.0    -34.3    -22 5         -21.0    -27 1     -21.8    -21.5    -20.7    -21.9
IMif Credit                             40.5     75.0      83.0      83.0     77.8      -23 5     -25.2    -18 0     -34.6    -51.2    -63.6    -56 7
Memo:
GDP (mil US $)                       1245.8   2744.2   4735.6   5979.3   6917.3   7703.4   8572.3   95402   104141   11370.2  12299.4  13305.2
Average Exchange Rate (Lari/$)        1.10      1.28      1.20     1.15      1.17      1.21      1 24     1.28      1.32      1.36     1.40      1.45
RealExchangeRate 1/                    ..       100       64        57        55       54        54        53        53       52        52        52
I / Decrease = Appreciation



Georgia: Debt Indicators                                                                               Page 3 of 3
1994      1995       1996      1997       1998      1999       2000      2001       2002      2003       2004      2005
Total DOD(USSM)                                    992.0    1083.1    1279.9    1478.7    1685.6    1854.0    2003.6    2143.1    2260.0    2345.2    2398.4    2421.3
Debt Service due after rescheduling (USSM) 1/       149.9     132.4      55.0      168.9      82.4       96.9      178.8     220.3      283.2     313.2      358.5     403.3
Total Debt/GDP                                     79.6%      39.5%     27.0%      24.7%     24.4%      24.1%     23.4%      22.5%     21.7%      20.6%      19.5%     18.2%
DebtServiceafterrescheduling/GDP  1/               12.0%      4.8%       1.2%      2.8%       1.2%       1.3%      2.1%       2.3%      27%        2.8%      2.9%       3.0%
Debt Service after rescheduling/ Total Exports 1/  31.7%      28.6%     10.7%      28.1%      11.8%     12.4%     20.4%      22.5%     263%       26.6%      27.9%     28.9%
DOD/Export                                         209.8%    233.9%    248.8%    245.7%    242.4%    236.8%    229.1%    218.5%    210.2%    198.9%    186.9%    173.7%
IBRD Debt (USSM)                                     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        3.3       18.0      43.7       80.4      122.6      170.9     224.3      274.2
IBRD Debt Service Due (US$M)                         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.1        0.7       2.2       4.3        7.1       11.3       17.1      233
IBRD Debt/GDP                                       0.0%      0.0%       0.0%      0.0%       0.0%       0.2%      0.5%       0.8%      12%        1.5%      1.8%       2.1%
IBRD DebtVTotal DOD                                 0.0%      0.0%       0.0%      0.0%       0.2%       1.0%      2.2%       3 7%      5.4%       7.3%      9.3%       11.3%
IBRD Debt Service/ GDP                              0.0%      0.0%       0.0%      0.0%       0.0%       0.0%      0.0%       0.0%      01%        0.1%      0.1%       0.2%
IBRD Debt Service / Total Exports                   0.0%      0.0%       0.0%      0.0%       0.0%       0.1%      0.2%       0.4%      0 7%       1.0%       1.3%      1.7%
1BRD Debt Service / Total Debt Service              0.0%      0.0%       0.0%       0.0%      0.1%       0.8%      1.2%       2.0%      2 5%       3.6%      4.8%       5.8%
IDA Debt (USSM)                                      0.9       83.8      165.3     226.8      282.1      315.7     347.1      3799      4156       447.1     473.0      490.6        O
IDA Debt Service Due (USSM)                          0.0       0.2        0.6        1.0       1.3        1.5       1.7        1.8       2.0        2.2       2.9        5.1        Li
IDA Debt/GDP                                        0.1%      3.1%       3.5%       3.8%      4.1%       4.1%      4.0%       4.0%      4.0%       3.9%      3.8%       3.7%         l
IDA Debt/Total DOD                                  0.1%      7.7%       12.9%     15.3%      16.7%     170%       17.3%     17.7%      18.4%     19.1%      19.7%      20.3%
IDA Debt Service / GDP                              0.0%      0.0%       0.0%      0.0%       0.0%       0.0%      0.0%       0.0%      0 0%       0.0%      0.0%       0.0%
IDA Debt Service/Total Exports                      0.0%      0.0%       0.1%      0.2%       0.2%       0.2%      0.2%       0.2%      02%        0.2%      0.2%       0.4%
IDADebtService/TotalDebtService                     0.0%      0.2%       1.1%       0.6%      1.5%       1.5%      0.9%       08%       0.7%       0.7%      0.8%       1.3%
Preferred Creditors Debt (US$M)                     41.4      206.5      391.0     563.1      723.8      769.3     830.5      9140      991.9    1055.3    1104.3    1146.4
Preferred Creditors Debt Service Due (US$M)          0.9       2.8        6.9        9.0       17.2      39.6       45.9      43.8       66.9      92.0       115.2     121.1
Preferred Creditors Debt/GDP                        3.3%      7.5%       8.3%       9.4%      10.5%     10.0%      9.7%       9.6%      9 5%       9.3%       9.0%      8 6%
Preferred Creditors Debt/Total DOD                  4.2%      19.1%     30.5%      38.1%     42.9%      41 5%      41.5%     42.7%      43.9%     45.0%      46.0%      47.3%
PreferredCreditorsDebtService/GDP                   0.1%      0.1%       0.1%       0.2%      0.2%       ().5%     0.5%       05%       0.6%       0.8%      0.9%       09%
PreferredCreditorsDebtService/TotalExports          0.2%      0.6%       1 3%       1.5%      2.5%       5. 1%     5.2%       4.5%      62%        7.8%       9.0%      8.7%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service/Total Debt Service    0.6%   2.1%       12.6%      5.3%      20.9%     409%       25.7%      19.9%     23.6%     29.4%      32.1%      30.0%
1.' Debt service figures correspond to debt service due after rescheduling of all arrears and non-EU debt service due in 95 and 96 at 10 year maturity, 5 year grace and 4 percent interest
Debt service ratios before rescheduling would be 76.7 percent of total exports in 1995 and 29.8 percent in 1996. These correspond to 12.9 percent and 3 2 percent of GDP respectivelv.
Preferred Creditors include World Bank, IMF, and EBRD.
All the debt is public.



Anne 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original amount in USS millions                    between expected
Project                Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                              and actual
ID                 Credit No.  Year              Borrower                        Purpose                     IBRD            IDA   Cancellations  Undisbursed   disbursements'
Number of Closed Loans/Credits:       I
Active Loans
GE-PA-39892               C28090    1996 GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA    TRANSPORT                                                       12.00                       11.95
GE-PA-8413               C26410    1995 GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA    INSTITUTION BUILDING                                            10.10                        4.94
GE-PA-8417               C26580    1995 GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA    MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                        18.00                       12.49               2.75
TOTAL                                                                                                             0.00         40.10           0.00        29.38               0.38
Active Loans                 Closed Loans                         Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                                   12.03                         77.44                         89.47
Of w1hich repaid                                                                0.00                          0.00                         0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                                   40.10                         75.00                        115.10
Amount sold                                                                       0.00                          0.00                         0.00
Of which rppid                                                                  0.00                         0.00                          0.00
Total undisbursed                                                                29.38                          0.00                        29.38
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disburment data aupdated at the end of the first week of the month.
D  taaof311V96



- 37 -
Annex 4
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTNMENT CREDIT
Thnetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                  6 months
(b)   Prepared by:                            Government of Georgia with the assistance
of IDA staff
(c)   Preparation Mission:                    September 6-23, 1995
December 3-20, 1995
(d)   Technical Discussions/Negotiations:     February 19-24, 1996
(e)    Planned Board Presentation:            April 18, 1996
(f)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:         May 03, 1996
(g)   List of relevant PCRs and PPARs         Not applicable



GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
Annex 5
Page 1 of 10
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                  MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO I MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY
____________________I                  [  BOARD PRESENTATION                                MID-1997
A. MAINTAINING A TIGHT MONETARY POLICY
To reduce inflation to 20-25 percent in   Monthly inflation rate fell from an  Reserve requirement ratio decreased   Maintain quarterly targets on net
1996 and to strengthen the international  average of 64 percent during the first    from 20 to 18 percent in January 1996.  domestic assets of the NBG, net
position of the NBG                    nine months of 1994 to an average of 3                                        domestic credit to the General
percent during the first nine months of                                       Government, and net international
To increase the range of monetary      1995.                                                                         reserves.
instruments and enhance the capacity of
the NBG to achieve monetary            Foreign exchange reserves rose from                                          Introduce government securities and
objectives                            0.9 months of imports cover in 1994 to                                         NBG  bills by mid-1996.
2.5 months in 1995.
Develop the inter bank credit auction.
Consider further reduction of the
reserve requirement ratio.
B. IMPROVING THE FISCAL SYSTEM
To ensure the sustainability of       Weak fiscal performance: tax revenues   Most tax exemptions (VAT customs,     Strengthen tax administration:
stabilization.                        only reached 3.7 percent of GDP in     excise and profit taxes) removed,      Reorganize 25 largest regional tax
1995 while total expenditures amount    effective March 1, 1996.1/           inspectorates and all remaining ones by
To increase tax revenues to 6.7 percent  to 13 percent of GDP.                                                      June 1996; Complete comprehensive
of GDP in 1996.21                                                             1996 Budget approved; Budget deficit   taxpayer survey and distribution of
to be maintained at 3-4 percent of    taxpayer identification numbers by July
To reach a revenue to expenditure ratio                                      GDP.                                    1996; Review penalties for non-
of 70 percent in 1996 and maintain                                                                                  compliance, tax assessment, collection
budget deficit at 3-4 percent of GDP in                                                                             and audit, and incentives for inspectors
1996.                                                                                                               and agencies and implement by July
1996.
1/ Prior action under the ESAF
2/ Financial benchmark under the ESAF



GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
OBJECTIVES                          CURRENT STATUS                   MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO                 MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY
BOARD PRESENTATION                             MID-1997
Develop and implement a
comprehensive customs administration
reform program by June 1996.
Submit to Parliament new VAT tax
law by July 1996.
Submit to Parliament new tax code by
January 1997.
C. STREAMLINING THE GOVERNMENT SECTOR AND IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC SPENDING
To maintain critical public functions  Public expenditures are extremely
within the framework of a tight        compressed.
expenditure program (expenditures to
be maintained at about 13 percent of
GDP in 1996)
Reforming Government Pay and           Overemployment and extremely low        New structure of Government adopted    Introduce civil service reforms.
Employment                             pay characterize public administration.   following enactment of the new
The Government reduced the number    constitution; several branch ministries
To improve capacity to perform         of budgetary positions by 40 percent in   eliminated.
essential functions                    1995 (about 200,000 workers).



GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
Annex 5
Page 3 of 10
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                  MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO                MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY
BOARD PRESENTATION                            MID-1997
Reforming the Provision and Financing   Public spending on health has fallen to   Larger share of public expenditures  Pursue implementation of health sector
of Social Services                    10 percent of its 1990 level in real  allocated to health and education in the   reform; scaling down facilities and
terms; expenditures on education are  1996 state budget than in the previous    staff; privatizing hospitals and clinics;
less than 3 percent of their 1990 value.   year. (About 7 percent to health and 8   focusing the role of the Ministry of
percent to education).                health on establishing the appropriate
To prevent further deterioration of the    Introduction of a radical reform of the                                 regulatory framework: and developing
health status of the population and   health care system -                                                         mechanisms for ensuring access to
ensure access to health services by the   State's financing role reduced to cover                                  health services by the poor.
poor.                                 only a basic package of medical
services; health insurance fund set up  Action Plan adopted for the education    Reduce staff by 10,000 in 1996.
in July 1995; 130,000 employees of the  sector, giving priority in the allocation
health sector removed from            of public resources to basic education    Implement action plan for education
government payroll; privatization of  and targeted population groups,       sector
health facilities began.              fostering the creation of private schools
and the introduction of tuition, setting
To prevent deterioration of the       Public resources insufficient to support  targets for cuts in staff and allowing
education sector and improve efficiency  the highly developed education system    changes in compensation policy.                                                       0
in the allocation of public resources.  inherited from the past; staff reduced
from 250,000 to 163,000 over last
year; elimination of free textbook
policy.



GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
OBJECTIVES                        CURRENT STATUS                  MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO    MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY
BOARD PRESENTATION                           MID-1997
Reforming Social Insurance and Social
Protection:
To improve the protection of the most   Despite significant steps toward   Retirement age increased from 60 to 65   Shift responsibility for paying sickness
vulnerable groups of the population.  improving the targeting of social    for men, and from 55 to 60 for        benefits to employers.
benefits, pensions, allowances and   women, effective March 1, 1996.
unemployment benefits remain                                               Submit to Parliament legislation for
extremely low. Numerous families in    Payroll contribution rate to the    introduction of voluntary private
economic jeopardy remain unprotected.   Employment Fund reduced from 3 to I   pension plans.*
To address sustainability issues, correct                                  percent. Employer contribution to the
perverse incentive effects, and restore    Sustainability of the public pension  Social Security Fund (non-budgetary  Establish a back-up program of social
credibility in the public system of  system affected by the decline in the  sector) reduced by 8 percentage points,  assistance.
social protection.                   number of contributors, under-        effective March 1, 1996.
reporting of wages, the age structure of                                   Prepare legislation for introduction of
the population and generous eligibility    All programs financed from the  mandatory contribution to fully-funded
rules.                               Employment Fund except                pension plans by end 1996.
unemployment benefits eliminated,
effective March 1, 1996.
* Second tranche release condition



GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
Annex 5
Page 5 of 10
OBJECTIVES                        CURRENT STATUS                    MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO                 MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY
BOARD PRESENTATION                             MID-1997
Eliminating Energy Subsidies
To improve the financial position of the  The Government has stopped providing   Special Commission on Energy Payments    Improve monthly collection rates from
energy companies                     state guarantees for gas imports.     created in Oct. 1995, authorized to improve   30% in March to 55% in August, and
collection of payments through cutoff of  65% in December 1996.*
To avoid further accumulation of     Collection rates for electricity payment   electricity supply, auction of inventories,
arrears and external debt            at about 6-10 percent.                and other measures.
To promote enterprise adjustment     While tariffs introduced in September    Monitoring system for collection of
1994 were uniform and covered costs,   payments established in March 1996.
cross-subsidization of residential
consumption was reintroduced in July    Sakenergo's use of imported fuel and power  Maintain special account current for
1995.                                restricted with: (i) price and repayment  the full period.
terms to be agreed prior to imports; (ii)
Wholesate tariffs are unregulated and  special account established; and (iii) imports   Do not resume residential gas
vary widely among distributors.      funded only through revenues of this      deliveries until equipment allowing
account. Revenues limited to electricity  metering is installed.
Collection rates for gas payment     payment collections and borrowed funds (up
remain below 10 percent.             to US$6 million and with no government    Encourage payment of energy bills in
guarantee).                              cash.
Unified wholesale tariff established for all    Implement tariff reforms (wholesale
distribution companies in January 1996.  and retail tariffs).
D. FOSTERING ADJUSTMENT OF THE PRODUCTIVE SECTOR
Accelerating Privatization           Universe to be privatized
Resolution 249 of May 1995 identifies    Resolution 249 amended to reduce the
To foster structural transformation of    units to remain under 100 percent state   number of enterprises remaining 100
the economy and improve enterprise   ownership.                            percent state-owned.
efficiency
Decrees issued in 1995 temporarily                                             Amend decrees to reduce the number
reserve for state ownership 51% of                                             of enterprises in which the state would
shares of 252 enterprises.                                                     keep 51 percent of shares.*
* Second tranche release condition



GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
Annex 5
Page 6 of 10
OBJECTI'v'ES                       CURRENT STATUS                  MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO               MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY MID-
BOARD PRESENTATION                                 1997
Small-scale Privatization             6,700 small enterprises privatized by  Complete privatization of sinall enterprises
Privatization of small-scale enterprises    Feb. 1, 1996.                   (7,200) by end-April 1996.*
is very advanced: 89 percent of small
enterprises privatized by December    125 medium- and large-scale           Privatize an additional 200 medium- and
1995                                  enterprises privatized by Feb. 1, 1996.   large-scale enterprises.*
Medium and large-scale Privatization -
(1,138 enterprises)
423 enterprises applied for the       Only 140 enterprises out of the 423   Payment of shares under buyout option
employer-employee buyout option.      which applied have made the first     expires in July 1996. Transfer shares only
payment.                              when paid in full.
Sale of at least 35 percent of shares  At least 35 percent of shares of about    Continue voucher auctions until July 1996.
through voucher auctions started in la.e  700 enterprises offered to the public by
June 1995 (shares allocated to bidders    end-Feb. 1996
according to number of vouchers
submitted). As of end-November        Starting early 1996, organize voucher    After voucher expiration, sell remaining              4
1995, 20 auctions have been held and    auctions to sell remaining shares (as  shares through cash auctions.
58 million shares in 598 enterprises  one package to the highest bidder, or
have been offered to the public.      as "packets" of shares).              Use tenders for a small number of
enterprises.
Guidelines specifying detailed        Whenever remaining block of shares
conditions and procedures to be applied  remains unsold, initiate bankruptcy
to auctions and to tenders issued in  proceedings.
Feb. 1996.*
* Second tranche release condition



GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMvtENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
Annex 5
Page 7 of 10
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                 MEASURES TO BE TAKEN PRIOR   MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY
TO BOARD PRESENTATION                          NMID -1997
Regulations for licensing private sector   Issue decree requiring joint-stock
entities to operate share registries  companies to maintain a share registry
issued in Feb. 1996.                  with a licensed independent registrar.
Issue resolution to ensure that claims
Enterprises with outstanding claims on    Unit established within the Ministry of   are used through a competitive process
the Government for the delivery of     Finance to review accuracy of claims.    and only by enterprises in which the
goods under the state order allowed to                                       state owns less than 25 percent of
exchange these claims for shares of                                           share capital.
enterprises. Process lacks
transparency.
Bread Corporation                     Bread Corporation                      Privatize all large bakeries and at least
Plan to corporatize and privatize the  All retail units and small bakeries    10 mills; liberalize the price of bread
Bread Corporation adopted in July     privatized by end-February 1996.       and remove profit margins on grain
1995. Two mills privatized in summer                                         and flour.*
1995.
Finalize privatization of remaining 4
mills by the end of 1996.
* Second tranche release condition



GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
Annex 5
Page 8 of 10
OBJECTIVES                        CURRENT STATUS                  MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO    MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY
BOARD PRESENTATION                           MID-1997
RestructurinR and Privatization of
Energv Utilities
Restructuring plan implemented in                                          Issue decree defining proper regulatory
1995, ill-prepared and without                                             framework and related institutional
regulatory framework. Many new                                             setup.
distribution companies face problems of
viability.                                                                 Adopt a plan for power sector
restructuring and privatization of sector
enterprises.
Privatization of Land
About 21 percent of agricultural land  Law on land ownership giving rights to  Establish legal framework for land
and 47 percent of cultivated (630,000  buy, sell, lease and inherit adopted by    registration and titling.*
ha) in private hands. However,       Parliament in March 1996.
appropriate definition of property rights                                  Make satisfactory progress in the
is lacking and distribution of land                                        distribution of land that remains to be
remains incomplete.                                                        privatized (about 240,000 ha)*
Draft land law submitted to Parliament.                                    Adopt procedures for leasing
remaining public land to make it
Legal Framework                                                            available for private use.*
Entrepreneurship law adopted in
November 1994. Simple registration                                         Enact anti-monopoly law by June
procedures for new business adopted.                                       1996. Enact civil code and bankruptcy
Long-term leasing arrangements for                                         law by end-1996.
commercial real estate allowed.
Bankruptcy decree in place to be
replaced by law under preparation.
* Second tranche release condition



GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
Annex 5
Page 9 of 10
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                   MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO                MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY
BOARD PRESENTATION                            MID-1997
Restructuring the Financial Sector
To foster savings mobilization and    National Bank Law approved in June     Commercial Banking Law, includiig
efficient intermediation              1995.                                  provisions for liquidation of banks
adopted by Parliament in Feb. 1996.
Supervision Department reorganized
and strengthened: new prudential
standards issued.
Licenses revoked for about 100 banks.
Financial sector remains in perilous  Privatization of the three major banks    Do not increase state ownership of
shape with many banks insolvent or    completed (direct state ownership      banks from their current level.
inactive. The three major banks have    reduced to zero and indirect ownership
severe asset problems and negative net  through state-owned enterprises less
worth. Privatization of these banks   than tO%)
underway.                                                                                                                             >
Audit of major banks underway.        Bank certification program set up
announcing that only banks fully
complying with prudential standards
are certified. Payment of dividends by
non-complying banks prevented.
Decree issued in November 1995 to                                            Establish timetable with periodic
relax restriction that household deposits                                    benchmarks to monitor progress
cannot exceed capital for banks                                              towards compliance.*  Impose
complying with NBG's requirements.                                           penalties as appropriate.**
Refrain from ensuring banking
deposits.
* Condition of Effectiveness
** Second Tranche release condition



GEORGIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX
Annex 5
Page 10 of 10
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                  MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO    MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY MID-
BOARD PRESENTATION                                1997
Fostering Export Growth
Removing direct barriers to exports and   Uniform Import Tariff (12%) on non-    Tariff for barter and non-barter imports
creating an enabling environment      barter trade with non-CIS countries.  unified at 12 percent, effective March
Barter trade currently taxed at 20    1.
percent.
Export licenses still required for 9  Export prohibitions and licenses      Replace export prohibitions on scrap metal
groups of products, export prohibitions   eliminated in Nov. 1995 (except for the   by a temporary export tax. Adopt plan for
for 10 groups of products.            standard list of exceptions).         phasing out export tax.
Ex ante registration of export contracts   Eliminate transitional system of ex ante
required temporarily for 5 products.  registration. *
Encouraging foreign investment        Foreign investment law adopted in June                                      Amend Foreign Investment Code to
1995 grants foreign investors rights to                                    introduce a system of expeditious approval
repatriate profits; however is still                                        of investments and remove temporary
deficient regarding approval of                                             concessions and tax
investments and tax holidays.                                               holidays for foreign investors.*
Improve the legal framework for bonded
warehouses and free trade zones.
Allow for reincorporation as private
companies the former state trading
organizations.
* Second tranche release condition



- 48 -
48
bd15&.n)30Q'(9b 360%0Q)660
PRESIDENT OF GEORGIA
March 6,1996
Dear Mr. Wolfenson,
The attached letter of Development Policy outlines the Structural Reform
Programme of Georgia. We request the Wodd Bank to support this programme
with a Structural Adjustment Credit of US$ 60 million.
The programme of measures in the Letter is intended to achieve the rapid
resumption of economic growth within a sustainable macroeconomic framework.
If adjustments and corrective measures are required during the course of the
implementation of the programme we will, where approprate, review those
measures with the World Bank.
Sincerely Yours,
Eduard Shevardnadze
President of Georgia
Mr. James D. Wolfenson
President
The World Bank



- 49 -
Annex 6
Page I of 14
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    After three years of sharp economic decline, financial imbalances leading to hyperinflation, and
political instability, the Government of Georgia has focused its attention since the beginning of 1994 on
rebuilding the Georgian economy. With the benefit of greater law and order and an improved political
situation, the Government designed with the assistance of the IMF and the World Bank a program to
stabilize and reform the economy. Implementation of the reform program has been sustained since
September 1994 and remarkable progress has been made in curbing inflation and stabilizing the external
value of the currency. Progress has also been achieved toward eliminating budgetary subsidies,
liberalizing prices and trade, and reducing the size of the state sector. It also appears that economic
decline has slowed.
2.     Despite this initial success, the economic situation remains fragile. The tax effort remains very
weak; the transformation of the economy into a market economy is still in an early transition stage; and
the productive sector has not yet adjusted to new economic signals.
3.     The Government believes that ensuring the sustainability of stabilization and fostering a strong
and sustained growth recovery requires the pursuit and deepening of the reform process currently
underway. To achieve these goals, it has identified a set of policies which are key to the success of its
efforts. These policies aim at: (i) maintaining a tight monetary program supported by an improving fiscal
position; (ii) streamlining the Government sector and improving the efficiency of public spending; and
(iii) fostering a rapid adjustment of the productive sector to new market signals.
A.    Maintaining a Tight Monetary Policy
4.     The Government intends to reduce inflation to 20-25 percent in 1996 and to strengthen the
international position of the NBG. To that effect, policies will be consistent with quarterly targets on
net domestic assets of the NBG, net domestic credit to the General Government, and net international
reserves. To enhance its capacity to achieve its monetary objectives, the NBG will increase the range of
its policy instruments, introducing government securities by mid-1996 and developing the interbank credit
auction. To reduce the cost of credit, the NBG has decreased the reserve requirement ratio from 20 to
18 percent in January 1996 and intends to reduce it further later in the year.
B.    Improving the Fiscal System
5.     The Government recognizes that the sustainability of the stabilization program and the ability to
perform a set a critical public functions depend crucially on the mobilization of resources for the budget.
The Government intends to increase tax revenues from 3.7 percent of GDP in 1995 to 6.7 percent in
1996 and to rely mostly on domestic resources to finance current government expenditures. To reach that
objective major efforts are needed to improve revenue performance. Effective March 1, 1996, the
Government has expanded the tax base by removing most tax exemptions (VAT, customs, excises and
profit taxes). Over the first half of 1996, it will strengthen tax administration by reorganizing all tax
inspectorates; completing a comprehensive taxpayer survey and distributing identification numbers;
simplifying procedures and tax regulations for tax assessment; reviewing the incentive system for tax
collection agencies and inspectors; and imposing higher penalties for non-compliance. The Government



- 50 -
Page 2 of 14
also intends to develop and implement in cooperation with IMF, World Bank and UNCTAD staff, a
comprehensive customs administration reform program, including development of effective procedures
for control over and clearance of imports and exports, duty assessment and collection.
6.    In view of the many changes introduced in the tax system in recent years, the Government will
review all tax laws, and draft a new VAT tax law and a new tax code for submission to Parliament by
July 1996 and January 1997, respectively. In the context of the VAT, another major change that the
Government intends to carry out, but which must be done in consultation with its partners in the CIS,
is to change the basis of taxing trade with these countries from the "origin principle" (whereby VAT is
not imposed on imports, but is on exports) to the "destination principle" (whereby imports are VAT-
taxed, but exports are not), which currently governs its trade with non-CIS countries.
C.     Streamlining the Government Sector and Improving the Efficiency of Public Spending.
7.     The Government is aware that, even with improved revenue performance, it will have to maintain
a tight expenditure program. This implies maintaining only critical functions - reforming government
pay and employment and changing the role of the state in the administration and financing of activities
which used to be fully publicly-financed, mostly social services and social protection. It also implies the
elimination of all - even implicit - subsidies.
(i) Government Pay and Employment
8.    The Government recognizes that the extremely low wages prevailing in the budgetary sector not
only lower efficiency but also jeopardize the Government's ability to perform basic functions. It is also
aware that, given existing budgetary constraints, it has no choice but to combine revenue-increasing
measures with continuing cutbacks in civil service personnel. Although the 40 percent reduction in the
number of budgetary positions was a substantial step in 1995, it intends to pursue further this effort by
undertaking reforms in the education sector - which accounts for about 40 percent of budgetary
employment - and by introducing civil service reforms following changes in the structure of the
Government and the consolidation of agencies.
(ii) Provision and Financing of Social Services
9.    In recent years, the collapse in budgetary revenues has led to an unprecedented reduction in public
investment in human capital. To ensure the minimum level of public expenditures necessary for growth,
and to protect access to the poor, the Govermnent has allocated a larger share of public expenditures to
health and education in the 1996 state budget than in the previous year. This results in about 7 percent
of total public expenditures allocated to health, and 8 percent to education in the 1996 budget  The
Government is committed to increase these shares further over the following years as the fiscal situation
improves, so as to gradually restore its capacity of providing a more adequate level of essential public
expenditures.
10.   Reform of the Health Care System. The Government has already introduced significant reforms
in the Georgian health care system. It has introduced a new public Health Insurance Fund, and a new
method for financing health care, insuring a core set of medical services under the new health insurance
program and leaving it to patients to pay for other medical services. Approximately 130,000 doctors,
nurses, and other medical personnel have already been removed from government budgetary accounts.
Privatization of medical facilities has begun and the Governmnent is committed to pursue the



- 51 -
Page 3 of 14
implementation of reforms under a plan of action already adopted.
11.    Reform  of the Georgian Education System. The Government acknowledges the need for
fundamental reform in the Georgian educational system. Georgia has inherited a highly developed
educational system, with high enrollment rates at all levels, that it can no longer support with available
public resources. Public spending in education in real terms is currently less than 10 percent of its 1990
level.
12.    The Government adopted in November 1995 a Plan of Action for education which it started
implementing thereafter. This plan gives priority in the allocation of public expenditures to basic
education and to targeted population groups (orphans, students with disabilities), and envisages the
preparation of a privatization program of educational facilities. It fosters the creation of private schools
at all levels of education and an increased participation of families in the financing of education (tuition).
It also encourages local initiatives to increase staff compensation. The Plan reflects the need to reform
educational pay scales to attract and retain qualified teachers, but it also sets targets for reducing the
number of teachers and other educational personnel who are paid for out of public budgets. The staff
of the education sector has already been reduced substantially: from 250,000 in 1992 to 163,000 in 1995.
The new plan aims at a further decrease to 120,000 over the next four years, with a first reduction by
10,000 to be implemented in 1996. During the transition process, public resources are simply too limited
to pay adequate wages. Only a combination of increased resources and reduced staff will allow for the
provision of adequate salaries to teachers. The action plan does not envisage the establishment of a state
educational fund financed through payroll or other earmarked taxes.
(iii) Social Protection
13.    The Government is determined to undertake a fairly radical reform of the social protection system
to improve public support to the neediest groups of the population. This reform also aims at addressing
sustainability issues and correcting perverse incentive effects that lead to under-reporting of wages and
low payroll tax collection.
14.    Restrictions on eligibilitv for old-age pensions. In order to concentrate pensions on Georgian
citizens who are most likely to be in need and unable to support themselves, the Government raised the
retirement age from 60 to 65 for men, and from 55 to 60 for women, as of March 1996. By restricting
old-age pensions in this way, higher monthly pensions can be provided to the remaining pensioners.
15.    Reduction in the contribution rate to the Employment Fund and the United Fund of Social
Security. The Government intends to decrease the payroll tax rate in the non-budgetary sector to reduce
incentives to create employment in the informal sector and avoid taxes. As of March 1, 1996, the
contribution rate to the Employment Fund has been reduced from 3 to 1 percent. Spending from the
Employment Fund is now limited to unemployment benefits and operating costs, and all worker
retraining, job search and job creation programs, of less priority, have been discontinued.  No
accumulation of deficit will be allowed. In addition, the employer contribution rate to the United Fund
of Social Security (for the non-budgetary sector) has been reduced by 8 percentage points. The
Government envisages further reductions in the contribution rate as the fiscal situation improves, and
within the framework of the reforms of the pension system.
16.    Preparation of legislation on voluntary private pension plans. The Government proposes to enact
a legislative and regulatory framework, acceptable to the Bank, for a voluntary, private pension system.



- 52 -
Page 4 of 14
By mid-1996 legislation will be prepared and approved by the Government for submission to Parliament
that will encourage and regulate the creation of voluntary private pension plans. These plans may be
sponsored by individual employers or groups of employers or voluntary associations of employees. The
legislation will permit individual workers to accumulate retirement savings in accounts whose safety and
soundness is subject to supervision by public authorities. The legislation will become effective no later
than January 1, 1997.
17.   Preparation of a program obligating employers and workers to contribute to private pension plans.
The Government proposes to adopt and announce a basic plan describing (i) the obligation of workers
and employers to contribute to compulsory, fully-funded pension plans, (ii) the regulatory framework that
will govern the funds, and (iii) the public institutions that will supervise the funds. Detailed legislation
governing the funds will include a revision of the current public, pay-as-you-go pension scheme to specify
how the total compulsory contribution rate will be split between the current pay-as-you-go system and
the fully-funded scheme. It will also specify the mechanisms governing the transition to the new system.
This legislation will be prepared and adopted by the Government by the end of 1996, and will become
effective no later than end 1998.
18.   Reform of sickness pay. In order to reduce the required contribution rate to the United Fund,
the Government intends to confine the spending of the United Fund to benefits received by invalid and
retired workers. Most benefits received by active workers will become the direct financial responsibility
of employers. In particular, responsibility for financing workers' pay during short-term injury or illness
will be shifted from the United Fund to employers. The Government will prepare by mid-1996 final
legislation removing responsibility for sickness pay from the United Fund. The legislation will become
effective no later than January 1, 1997.
19.   Creation of a back-up system of social protection. The economic crisis in Georgia and the
curtailment of many kinds of social protection have placed many Georgian families in economic jeopardy.
Some of these families receive allowances or other government benefits, but other destitute families no
longer qualify for benefits. For example, poor families with only a single child may not qualify for help.
In the future, older workers who are not yet entitled to pensions may be unemployed and without any
support.
20.    To address the serious problems faced by these groups, the Government intends to establish a
limited program to extend allowances to needy families that do not qualify for benefits under any existing
program. Financing for the new program could be obtained from further limiting child allowances to
families with three or more children, reductions in allowances for refugees who have adequate incomes
from work, or other restrictions in social welfare eligibility to be agreed with the World Bank.
21.    Benefits under the new assistance program will be available only to families not entitled to other
cash benefits which can demonstrate that their resources are very limited. The test for eligibility (to be
defined after detailed survey analysis) will take into account the presence in the family of at least one
person in vulnerable circumstances. Vulnerable individuals include children, old persons, and invalids.
Families will have to demonstrate that they meet the conditions for eligibility no less than once every
three months. The eligibility limits for this program will be defined so that no more than 5 percent of
the Georgian population qualifies for assistance, and within the limits of budgetary resources. This new
program will be developed and adopted by the end of 1996.



- 53 -
Page 5 of 14
(iv) Energy Subsidies.
22.    Collection of Energy Payments. Although the sharp increase in the price of energy (gas and
electricity) eliminated in principle, budgetary subsidies, implicit subsidies have not yet disappeared.
Delivery of gas and electricity to non-paying customers is one of the principal methods for providing
hidden subsidies to enterprises and to the population. The Government intends to end these subsidies,
which are a major contributor to external debt and which are delaying enterprise adjustment. It is the
Government's policy that energy consumers should settle their bills in cash, and that no institutionalized
state barter-trading organizations be created within the energy companies.
23.    To that effect, the Government created in October 1995, a Special Commission on Energy
Payments. The Commission is authorized to improve collection of energy payments through measures
including auction of inventories of industrial debtors, auditing of debtor's accounts to identify assets
available to make payment, ordering bank transfers, placing restrictions upon investments by indebted
enterprises, and implementing rules for fair sharing of revenues between distributors and their upstream
energy suppliers. The Commission intends to gradually improve monthly collection of payments so as
to reach at least 30 percent of supply for March 1996, 55 percent for August, and 65 percent for
December 1996. These minimum targets apply both to the collection rates from end consumers, and to
the payments between distribution companies and Sakenergo. A monitoring system with monthly reporting
starting in March 1996 has been agreed, and the Chairman of the Commission for Energy Payments has
issued an order to Sakenergo and electricity distribution companies to collect and submit to the
Commission in a timely manner the necessary monthly data. The Government is also committed to ensure
timely payments of energy bills of budgetary organizations, within the limit of their budgetary allocation.
To that effect, the Ministry of Finance will transfer directly to Sakenergo the amount allocated in the
budget to different organizations for their energy consumption. Sakenergo will supply electricity to such
organizations within the limits of the received budgetary allocations
24.    The use of imported electric power and power-station fuel by Sakenergo will be permitted only
subject to arrangements that clearly specify the price and terms of repayment in advance, and will be
allowed only to the extent that Sakenergo has sufficient funds to finance the cash costs of such imports
on a current basis. To that end, a special account has been established; imports of electricity and power-
station fuel will be funded only through this account. The primary sources of funds will be electricity
payment collections. The account can also operate with borrowed funds from commercial banks,
provided that this does not imply a government guarantee and that the total outstanding debt incurred
through such borrowing does not exceed US$6 million at any point in time. The account will remain
current for the full period. Outstanding fuel and electricity purchases will not exceed the monthly balance
in the account at any point in time.
25.    Natural Gas Pricing. Since September 1994, all gas customers have been charged a uniform price
(per thousand cubic meters) that is generally adequate to cover costs. However, there is a heavy hidden
subsidy to residential consumers, as bills are based on volumetric norms which used to be lower than
actual consumption. As of May 1995, no residential gas deliveries are occurring, and the Government
pledges that it will not resume residential deliveries until proper equipment, allowing metering of
residential gas consumption at the level of individual households or household collectives, is installed.
26.    Electricity Pricing. Retail electricity tariffs during the July - October, 1995 period included a
cross-subsidy for the first 100 Kwh of monthly residential consumption. There was no systematic
framework for approving wholesale tariffs and ensuring that retail tariffs permit proper cost recovery by



- 54 -
Page 6 of 14
local distribution companies that were created in May 1995. In January 1996 a unified wholesale tariff
in the amount of 2.4 tetris per kwh was established for all distribution companies. Further tariff reforms,
acceptable to IDA, will be implemented. They will include:
27.    Wholesale Tariff Reform: (i) Wholesale tariffs will at least cover the costs of generation, import,
and transmission by June 1996, with quarterly adjustments thereafter; (ii) Wholesale tariff calculations
will include, as a minimum: fuel and maintenance costs, other operating costs; an allowance for
depreciation, a reasonable profit margin, an allowance for bad debt, and a provision for interest on past-
due accounts.
28.    Retail Tariff Reform: (iv) A consistent national tariff formula will be established, allowing retail
tariffs to vary according to the respective costs of operation of distributors; distribution costs can be quite
different depending in particular on the composition of consumption, and the geographical area; (v) The
national formula for retail electricity tariffs will provide for phasing out of cross subsidies over a three-
year period, with the first adjustment to take place by September.
C.     Fostering Adjustment of the Productive Sector.
(i) Accelerating Privatization
29.    The Government considers privatization to be one of the most critical elements of its structural
reform program and rapid implementation is its primary objective. The vast majority of state-owned
enterprises will be privatized. Only those few enterprises essential to normal Government functions will
remain 100 percent Government-owned. The list of enterprises that are to remain 100 percent state-
owned was specified in Resolution 249. As this list included some enterprises which might better serve
the public interest under private ownership, the Government reviewed and amended the list so as to
reduce the number of enterprises that will not be subject to privatization. To this effect, a decree was
issued in February 1996. The Government also wishes to keep a majority of shares in a few enterprises
for reasons of national security. The list of these enterprises will be revised as part of the review of all
decrees maintaining 51 percent of shares under state ownership in a number of enterprises (see para. 31).
30.    Privatization of small-scale enterprises is nearing completion. The Letter of Development Policy
prepared within the context of the Rehabilitation credit committed the Government to privatization of
6,481 small enterprises by the end of 1995.' This target has been met and by February 1, 1996, the
Government had privatized 6,700 small enterprises. It intends to complete the privatization of all small
enterprises (7,200) by the end of April 1996.
31.    Privatization of medium- and large-scale enterprises began in the spring of 1995. All of these
enterprises are first to be converted to joint stock companies, and to date, 840 enterprises have been
corporatized. A total of about 1,100 medium- and large-size enterprises have been identified. The
Government has decided to proceed with privatization by stages and using various methods. In a first
stage, the Government intends to fully privatize about 900 enterprises, leaving for a second stage the
privatization of the remaining 200. For the latter, most of which produce primary products (such as
minerals, gas, oil products and chemicals) or provide critical services (such as trade and wholesaling,
'I/    This was the earlier total of small enterprises subject to privatization. After including small enterprises
from the State Bread Corporation and the health sector to the program, the number increased to 7,200.



- 55 -
Page 7 of 14
construction, airport and port services) (the State Bread Corporation is also included in this category) the
Government intends to sell only a minority of shares during the first stage. To this effect, it issued
decrees which temporarily reserve for state ownership 51 percent of their shares. The Government has
agreed to eliminate by second tranche these restrictions for all enterprises except those in which the
Government would keep 51 percent of shares for reasons of national security. Thus, a decree will be
issued allowing SPM to sell the majority of shares of such enterprises listed in the following decrees:
#875 (December 26, 1994; #22 (January 28, 1995); #81 (February 17, 1995); #12 (February 17, 1995);
#248 (May 10, 1995); #166 (May 14, 1995); #228 (June 11, 1995); and #303 (August 7, 1995). The
Government is committed to completing the privatization of all enterprises no later than the end of 1997.
32.   In 1995, several methods of transferring ownership have been adopted First, employees of all
enterprises received (on average) 5 percent of shares for free. Second, enterprise managers and employees
were given the option to buy an additional 51 percent of the shares of their enterprise. Finally, at least
35 percent of the shares of every medium and large enterprise subject to privatization are offered to the
public through the mass privatization program ("special" voucher auctions). The buyout option, which
expired on October 15, 1995, was applied for by 423 enterprises. Regulations stipulate that 30 percent
of the total payment must be made by November 15, 1995; privatization vouchers may be used for this
payment. The remaining 70 percent of the payment must be paid in cash by July 1, 1996. It is the
Government's policy not to grant extension of payments and to transfer only shares which are paid in full;
failure to make required payments on time results in forfeiture of all rights to remaining shares. Only 140
enterprises out of the 423 which applied have complied with the schedule. The "special" voucher auctions
began in June 1995 and will continue until July 1996. To date shares of about 700 enterprises have been
offered to the public through "special" voucher auctions.
33.    These various methods will still leave some proportion of shares. under state ownership. At this
stage. SPM's main objective is to maintain speed, administrative simplicity, and to sell remaining shares
- whenever possible -- as one package, thereby ensuring effective enterprise management and control.
For the majority of enterprises, SPM will use voucher auctions and cash auctions; tenders will also be
used to privatize a few enterprises. Managers and employees of enterprises will no longer have special
privileges to purchase controlling blocks of shares, and must compete on an equal basis with all other
interested buyers.
34.    Voucher auctions which began in early 1996 differ from the "special" voucher auctions. initiated
in June 1995. Voucher auctions will involve the sale of all remaining shares in each enterprise as one
package to the highest bidder, or sale of "packets" of shares (for example, 10 percent allotments). After
expiration of the vouchers, cash auctions and tenders will be used to complete the process. Whenever
the remaining majority block of shares cannot be sold through the first offering at a cash auction or
tender, the enterprise will be subject to reorganization (without budgetary transfers) or to bankruptcy
proceedings. Cash auctions are identical to voucher auctions, except that payment will be only in cash.
Voucher and cash auctions will be organized in a manner which engenders public confidence and is
equally open to the participation of all investors -- foreign and domestic. Detailed conditions and
procedures to be applied to voucher and cash auctions have been established at the end of February
1996, and guidelines issued thereafter.
35.    Tenders will be used, where appropriate, to attract foreign investors, or to privatize a few larger,
more complex enterprises requiring special treatment (for example, enterprises needing significant
investment). Foreign and domestic investors will be allowed to compete on an equal basis. It is the
Government's policy to limit the use of tenders to the smallest number of enterprises possible, as this



- 56 -
Page 8 of 14
method does not serve our primary objective of rapid privatization. Thus far, SPM has identified 5
medium and large enterprises which, because of their size and activities, are expected to be attractive to
foreign investors. At least 51 percent of their shares will be offered to strategic foreign investors through
competitive international tenders. Detailed conditions and procedures to be applied to tenders have been
established at the end of February 1996 and guidelines issued thereafter.
36.   Employing the above methods, the Government has privatized 125 medium and large enterprises
by end-January 1996 and intends to privatize an additional 200 medium and large enterprises by second
tranche. The Government intends to complete the privatization program by the end of 1997.
37.    A number of enterprises -- both public and private -- have outstanding claims on the Government
for the delivery of unpaid products under the old state order system. Preliminary estimates indicate that
aggregate claims are equal to approximately US$4 million for private enterprises, and to approximately
US$6 million for public enterprises. These enterprises have been hitherto allowed to exchange these
claims for shares in enterprises subject to privatization. However, the Government has concluded that
the process by which these claims have been extinguished lacks transparency. Doubts have also been
raised about the accuracy of estimates of outstanding claims. Therefore, the government has established
a unit to carefully review each claim and will subsequently, issue a Resolution along the following lines:
(i) no enterprises in which the state owns more than 25 percent of the share capital may exchange claims
for shares in enterprises subject to privatization; and (ii) claims will be exchanged for shares only through
competitive processes organized by SPM (eg. open, competitive auctions). Claim holders will be allowed
to freely trade (i.e. buy, sell and barter) their claims.
38.    Privatization will produce millions of new shareholders and requires an efficient share registry.
In order to avoid the problems inherent to enterprise-managed registries, where in other FSU countries,
enterprise managers have neglected to register outside shareholders who could threaten their positions,
the Ministry of Finance and SPM have established guidelines for authorizing private sector entities to
operate share registries. Share depositories -- should physical share certificates be issued -- may also
be managed by private sector entities. The Government will issue a decree requiring joint-stock
enterprises to maintain a share registry with a licensed independent registrar.
39.   In parallel to its efforts toward rapid privatization the Government will continue to make progress
in establishing the legal framework for private sector development. In addition to the Commercial
Banking law and the Land law mentioned below, the Government intends to enact an anti-monopoly law
by June 1996, and a civil code by end 1996. A bankruptcy law is also under preparation to replace an
existing 1992 decree.
40.    Privatization of the Bread Corporation. Implementation of the privatization plan fof the State
Bread Corporation (SBC) agreed with the World Bank and the IMF has been delayed. Given the sensitive
nature of this product, the Government wishes to proceed cautiously. However, the Government is
committed to substantially meeting the originally agreed targets.  In addition to two mills, the
Government has privatized all retail units and small bakeries of SBC, and by second tranche will privatize
all remaining bakeries and at least 10 mills. At the same time, it will liberalize the price of bread and
remove profit margin controls on grain and flour. The Government intends to complete the privatization
of the remaining 4 mills by the end of 1996.
41.    Privatization of Energy Sector Facilities. Successful large-scale privatization of energy facilities
requires that a framework for sector regulation first be put in place, and that the sector's integrated



- 57 -
Page 9 of 14
monopolies be restructured into commercial business units suitable for privatization. To address this
issue, the Committee on Power Industry Restructuring established in October 1995 will first make
recommendations for the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework, including setting up an
autonomous energy regulatory agency. The agency will be in charge of regulating tariffs for gas and
electricity, licensing energy operators, implementing rules that promote inter-fuel competition and prevent
monopoly abuses, ensuring fair commercial use of Georgia's energy infrastructure (transportation,
transmission, and storage), and promoting energy conservation and least-cost supply policies. The
Conmmittee's additional mandate is to make recommendations for the restructuring of the sector,
corporatization and privatization of sector enterprises. Based on the Committee's recommendations, and
in coordination with the Bank, the Government will issue a decree defining the proper regulatory
framework and related institutional setup. It will also adopt a plan for power sector restructuring and
privatization of sector enterprises.
42.    Land Distribution and Privatization. Although only 21 percent of agricultural land and 47 percent
of cultivated land is in private hands, private agriculture has become the main source of domestic supply.
Yet further development of agriculture rests on a rapid completion of agricultural reforms - primarily
transferring remaining land and other productive assets to the private sector - and appropriate definition
of property rights to create conditions for a functioning land market.
43.    The Government intends to support development of the agricultural sector first by expediting the
process of land privatization. A law on land ownership that gives rights to buy, sell, lease and inherit
land that is already in private use, has been adopted in March 1996. Enactment of the law will be
followed by the preparation of a land registration and titling law and the distribution of titles to allow
effective transactions to take place. Second, the Government has developed a plan for privatizing part
of the remaining land (about 240,000 hectares), and leasing on a competitive basis the land that would
remain under state ownership. The privatization program involves the distribution of about 240,000
additional hectares over a period of one year. By second tranche, the Government will have established
the legal framework needed for land registration and titling, distributed about half of the land that remains
to be privatized, and adopted procedures, acceptable to IDA, for leasing arrangements to make public
land available for private use.
(ii)    Restructuring the Banking Sector
44.    The Government and the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) recognize that solvent, competing
banks are important for the economy's future growth but that they are in a poor state today. The NBG
and the Government will ensure that banks improve and efficiently intermediate savings. Savings will
rise in a few years when the economy revives, but institutions take time to improve and the Government
recognizes that the necessary changes in banks must begin now.
45.   The NBG and the Government have already taken many important actions. The NBG Law
defines the legal role of the central bank in overseeing the banking system; new private banks are being
licensed and the privatization of the five former state-owned banks is underway; scores of unsound,
unlicensed banks and near-banks have been closed with minimal cost to the budget; and prudential
regulations and supervision have improved with technical help from the IMF and the World Bank. A
Commercial Banking Law which covers the liquidation of banks has been approved by Parliament in
February 1996.
46.    Much, however, remains to be done. Inflation until 1994 was higher than nominal interest rates



- 58 -
Page 10 of 14
and the real value of both loans and deposits was eroded. The entire banking system's assets were a mere
US$175 million in September 1995, roughly 7% of GDP, and it will be several years before this
proportion rises to levels typically found in thriving economies. Although inflation reduced enterprise
debts in real terms, many enterprises are unable to service even their diminished loans because they
operate at a fraction of their normal capacity. Banks claim that many defaulting loans are backed by
sufficient borrower collateral; but the banks' ability to foreclose on such a scale is untested, and the
collateral may turn out to be worthless, obsolete equipment. The banks also claim that some loans to
enterprises were made against their better judgement and under Government duress. The Government
undertakes to desist from such practices in the future. The NBG will evaluate the extent of such loans
and define the Government's liabilities by the end of June 1996.
47.    At this stage, the Governments' strategy is to ensure that banks restructure rapidly without
jeopardizing the Government's budget, and to promote competition between sound private banks. This
strategy comprises of three sets of measures: (1) completing the privatization of the former state banks,
(2) preventing non-complying banks from expanding their activities until they meet all of the NBG's
requirements, and (3) encouraging the merger of small private banks and branches of larger non-
complying banks with sound banks. These measures are explained further below.
48.    The former state banks are being privatized largely to their managers and employees. By
February 1996, the state eliminated its direct ownership in the recently merged state bank (United Bank
of Georgia), the Agrobank and the Bank of Georgia (former Housing Bank). In addition government-
controlled enterprises (defined here as 25 percent or more state-owned) own less than 20 percent in these
three major banks. The Government is convinced that privatization of banks will create incentives for
banks to improve operations in a cost-effective way and reduce the pressures to bail out depositors in the
event of bank failure. Indirect ownership of banks will fall further as the enterprises are privatized, and
the Government undertakes to not increase its direct or indirect ownership from their current level (zero
and 10 percent respectively).
49.    The second set of measures is to restrict the activities of the non-complying banks until they meet
all of the NBG's prudential requirements. The certification of banks which comply with the NBG's
prudential requirements has begun. The NBG will either prevent all non-certified banks from accepting
additional deposits or impose a 100 percent marginal reserve requirement. This will force banks to
address the source of their problems (poor lending decisions and high operating costs) and will not permit
them to overcome illiquidity by attracting deposits through excessive interest rates. The NBG will
enforce this if necessary by transferring any nominal increase in deposits (both household and enterprise)
into a non-interest bearing reserve account with NBG from funds (such as loan repayments, etc..) passing
through the banks' correspondent accounts. The NBG also intends to prevent the distribution of cash
dividends unless the banks are certified.
50.   The third set of measures involves the restructuring of the banks. By early April 1996, the NBG
and the three major non-complying banks (the United Bank of Georgia, the Agrobank, and the Bank of
Georgia) banks will agree on a timetable, with monthly or quarterly benchmarks to monitor progress.
If the prudential ratios do not improve as agreed in the timetable, the deviating bank will be given one
month to return to the agreed timetable. It could do so either by selling assets or finding additional
private equity. After the delay has expired, the NBG will either withdraw the licenses of selected
branches or force their sale to other banks, thereby obtaining the funds necessary to enable the bank to
adhere to its agreed timetable. Strict monitoring will be necessary to ensure that timetables are adhered
to and/or that imposed penalties are appropriate.



- 59 -
Page 11 of 14
51.    As part of this overall strategy, neither the Government nor the NBG will insure banking
deposits because they would distort incentives. The Government and NBG will not oppose private banks
organizing mutual insurance schemes or purchasing private insurance, but will not take any responsibility
for this.
52.    To implement this strategy, the NBG will strengthen its supervisory function.  A bank
certification program will begin. Only banks fully complying with the prudential banking standards will
be certified. The restriction that household deposits cannot exceed capital will be gradually relaxed for
banks which are certified, and a decree to this effect has been issued in November 1995.
(iii) Fostering Export Growth
53.    Georgia's hopes for a speedy recovery and rapid growth depend on trade. As a small trading
nation, Georgia is dependent on world markets to supply its needed consumer goods as well as many of
the inputs for agricultural and industrial production. Likewise, Georgia depends on world markets to
provide an outlet for its production of exportables.
54.    The government recognizes the critical importance to the economy of facilitating both import and
export transactions. Consequently, it has imposed no non-tariff barriers to imports, and has adopted a
relatively low and uniform import tariff structure of 12%, a policy which it intends to continue. Until
recently, the only exception to this general rule was the tax on barter transactions, equal to 20%. The
government has unified this with the rate for other imports in February 1996, so as not to discriminate
between these two types of trade.
55.    The government has also eliminated all taxes on exports (with the exception of exports to CIS
countries), and has made great progress in dismantling other export barriers. This includes most recently
the abolition of the state order system, which previously imposed a significant implicit tax on a number
of important exports.
56.    Until November 1995, the following products remained under export prohibition: 1) Antiquities
and artwork of museum value; 2) Weapons; 3) Oil and its products; 4) Milk and dairy products; 5)
Meat and its products; 6) Ferrous and colored metal scrap; 7) Cereals, grains, and pasta; 8) Flour;
9) Sugar; 10) Combined feed. With the exceptions of items 1) and 2), the export of these goods was
prohibited because in a period of economic turmoil, it was feared that their export would lead to severe
scarcity in the domestic market. Many of them were also under price control. With the liberalization
of prices and the more tranquil environment of the domestic market, the government has now eliminated
prohibitions on the export of these products, with the exceptions of 1, 2, and 6) and will not impose
export licensing or registration requirements on them. Export prohibitions on ferrous and metal scrap
will be replaced by a temporary 50 percent export tax and a plan for the phasing out and discontinuation
of the tax will be adopted.
57.   In 1995, the following products required a license for their export: 1) Precious metals, including
ore, alloys, products, and scrap; 2) Precious and semi-precious stones and their products; 3) Materials
for mineralogical, biological, archaeological, paleontological, ethnographic and numismatic collections;
4) Ferrous metals and their products; 5) Alcoholic beverages; 6) Seeds of Caucasian fir trees; 7)
Wood (logs, timber, lumber); 8) Leather and its raw materials; 9) Raw materials for medicines of animal
and vegetal origin. The licensing system for items 1), 2), 4) and 5) was not applied in such a way as to
intentionally restrict exports of these products; rather the intention was to ensure that the export prices



- 60 -
Page 12 of 14
do not run afoul of European Union anti-dumping regulations, and that the exporters report an accurate
price when calculating their profit taxes and repatriating their foreign exchange.  The licensing
requirements for wood and leather, on the other hand were explicitly restrictive, and were intended to
ensure a source of low-price supply for domestic industrial processors of these products, as well as for
forest conservation in the case of the former.
58.    The government has now recognized that full development of Georgia's export potential required
removing barriers to exports of all products except those required by environmental concerns or foreign
policy considerations. Therefore it issued a decree in November 1995 to remove the requirement for
licensing exports of all of these products, except for the standard list of exceptions. In the case of wood,
the requirement has been removed for lumber, but licenses for export of logs and timber will be given
upon demonstration that the trees were cut in accordance with conservation regulations. After licensing
requirements are removed, there will be no other requirements imposed, such as for ex ante registration
(with the exceptions specified below), nor will other products be put under export controls or registration
requirements of any kind.
59.    As exceptional measures during a transition process, exporters of a few (5) goods have been
required to register export contracts ex ante with the government. The mechanism for this will be
designed with assistance from the World Bank and UNDP; it will be transparent and will be used for
reasons of health and safety control and to avoid tax evasion. With additional technical assistance from
the World Bank and UNDP, the government will put in place alternative, more appropriate mechanisms
to address these concerns and eliminate the transitional system of ex ante registration within a few
months. Enforcement of tax laws for exporters will be carried out by the Tax Inspectorate and Customs
service in accordance with their normal procedures based on ex post monitoring and investigations when
there is cause for suspicion of non-compliance.
60.    Beyond removing legal barriers, export development will require a number of active steps by the
government. First, the government intends to encourage foreign investment. As experience in other
countries has shown, foreign investors can use their contacts abroad and their knowledge of international
market conditions to help ameliorate many of the problems currently faced by exporters in Georgia. The
government is already developing a capacity for informing foreign investors about Georgia. It has also
enacted a law governing foreign investments, which has a number of positive features, including granting
foreign investors unlimited rights of repatriation of profit. However, the code also is deficient in several
areas. It requires approval of investments based on some rather vague criteria and relies on tax holidays
as fiscal incentives for attracting investors. The government intends to amend this law to resolve these
problems. It will enact a code governing foreign investment, which will be based on a system of
automatic approval of investments, with certain clearly delineated exceptions due to national security
concerns. In recognition that temporary concessions and holidays are not generally effective in attracting
efficient investment, the code will not contain such fiscal incentives.
61.    The Government also will put in place several types of schemes to ensure that exporters can
import their required inputs tax free. First, the current legal framework for bonded warehouses will be
improved by mid-1996. Also, either as part of this scheme or as a separate legal scheme, producers who
export virtually all of their production will be exempted up front from payment of duties, VAT, and
excise taxes on their imported inputs. Second, the government will establish by November 1996 a legal
framework for free trade zones. Third, the government will ensure that exporters as well as other
producers will be able to get timely refund of any VAT taxes paid on their inputs, rather than just a
credit, as is now the case. This latter action will be helpful to producers who export only part of their



- 61 -
Page 13 of 14
production, and who cannot take advantage of up-front exemptions, as well as other non-export
producers.
62.    The Government recognizes that exporters and potential exporters in Georgia suffer from the lack
of services available to exporters in other economies. While there are only a limited number of policy
options available to help resolve this problem, one thing that the government will do is to allow for
reincorporation as private companies the former state trading corporations, Gruzimpex and Agroimpex.
Freed from any constraints imposed be state ownership, they will better be able to pay workers a market-
determined wage and raise capital, and will be able to provide better service to exporters.



- 62 -
Page 14 of 14
Attachment
Key Reform Measures
*      Implement satisfactorily tax and customs administration reforms including reorganization of all
tax inspectorates, completion of a taxpayer survey and distribution of identification numbers,
review of procedures and regulations for tax assessment, of the incentive system for tax
inspectors and agencies, and of penalties for non-compliance.
*      Reduce staff in the education sector by 10,000.
*      Shift responsibility for paying sickness benefits from the United Fund for Social Security to
employers.
*      Maintain current for the full period the special account used for imports of fuel and electricity.
*      Implement wholesale and retail tariff reforms acceptable to IDA with first adjustment to phase
cross-subsidies.
*      Issue decree defining the regulatory framework for the energy sector. Adopt a plan for power
sector restructuring and privatization of sector enterprises.
*      Issue a decree requiring joint-stock companies to maintain a share registry with a licensed
independent registrar.
*      Replace export prohibition on scrap metal by a temporary export tax. Adopt a plan for phasing
out the export tax.
*      Allow  for reincorporation as private companies, the former state trading organizations,
Agroimpex and Gruzimpex.






IMAGING
Report No: P-   6797 GE
T.ype: PR



