Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NO. 2847 GE
                       Development Credit Agreement
                      (Structural Adjustment Credit)
                                  between
                                  GEORGIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated April 26 , 1996
                                                       CREDIT NO. 2847 GE
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT dated April 26, 1996 between Georgia (the
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association):
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
March 6, 1996 from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association
in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the Development
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
Page  2
                  "'Project' means the program referred to in the
            Preamble to the  Development Credit Agreement, in
            support of which the Credit is made";
      (b)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
      (c)   Section 4.01 is modified to read:
                  "Except as the Association and the Borrower
            shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit
            Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit
            account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development
            Credit Agreement."
      (d)   Section 5.01 is modified to read:
                  "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the
            proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in
            accordance with the provisions of the Development
            Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.
            Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
            otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
            on account of expenditures in the territories of any
            country which is not a member of the Association or
            for goods produced in such territories; or (b) for
            the purpose of any payment to persons or entities,
            or for any import of goods, if such payment or
            import, to the knowledge of the Association, is
            prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
            Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations."
      (e)   The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
      (f)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
                  "(c)  Not later than six months after the
            Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
            this purpose between the Borrower and the
            Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
            to the Association a report, of such scope and in
            such detail as the Association shall reasonably
            request, on the execution of the program referred to
            in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement,
            the performance by the Borrower and the Association
            of their respective obligations under the
            Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
            of the purposes of the Credit."; and
      (g)   Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as
            modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered,
            respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional term has the following meaning, namely that "Deposit
Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of
this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, various currencies that
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to forty one million
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights  (SDR 41,300,000)
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Credit,
with each withdrawal valued by the Association as of the date
Page  3
of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be
entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit
Account in support of the Program.
      (b)   The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit
Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.  All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
      (c)   The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Credit shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If
the Association shall have determined at any time that any
proceeds of the Credit shall have been used to make a payment
for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii)
if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the
Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such
request shall be credited to the Credit Account for
cancellation.
      (d)   No withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of
SDR 20,650,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken.  If, after said
exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice to
the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are
not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken
actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit or any part thereof.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue:
            (i)   from the date sixty (60) days after the date of
                  this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
                  respective dates on which amounts shall be
                  withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
                  Account or canceled; and
            (ii)  at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
                  preceding the accrual date and at such other
                  rates as may be set from time to time
                  thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The
                  rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
                  applied from the next date in that year speci-
                  fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid:
Page  4
            (i)   at such places as the Association shall
                  reasonably request;
            (ii)  without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
                  in the territory of, the Borrower; and
           (iii)  in the currency specified in this
                  Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
                  the General Conditions or in such other
                  eligible currency or currencies as may from
                  time to time be designated or selected pursuant
                  to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1
commencing October 1, 2006 and ending April 1, 2031.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October
1, 2016 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever:
            (i)   the Borrower's gross national product per
                  capita, as determined by the Association, shall
                  have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
                  five consecutive years; and
            (ii)  the Association shall consider the Borrower
                  creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association
                  may, subsequent to the review and approval
                  thereof by the Executive Directors of the
                  Association and after due consideration by them
                  of the development of the Borrower's economy,
                  modify the terms of repayment of installments
                  under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
                  Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
                  installment not yet due until the principal
                  amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If
                  so requested by the Borrower, the Association
                  may revise such modification to include, in
                  lieu of some or all of the increase in the
                  amounts of such installments, the payment of
                  interest at an annual rate agreed with the
                  Association on the principal amount of the
                  Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
                  time, provided that, in the judgment of the
                  Association, such revision shall not change the
                  grant element obtained under the above-
                  mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of  Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Page  5
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange
views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program,
or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02.  Upon the Association's request, the
Borrower shall:
      (a)   have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the date of the
Association's request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
      (c)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the
Association shall have reasonably requested.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effectiveness; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement, namely that the Borrower has submitted to the
Association a monitoring program and timetable for the
improvement of the prudential ratios of the United Bank of
Georgia, the Agrobank and the Bank of Georgia, acceptable to
the Association.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
Page  6
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            170 Barnov Street
            380062 Tbilisi
            Georgia
            Cable address:                Telex:
                                          212348 MOFIN SV
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                  GEORGIA
                  By /s/ Tedo Japaridze
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Johannes Linn
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                           Excluded Expenditures
      For purposes of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement, the
proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to finance any of the
following expenditures:
1.    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
      or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.    expenditures for goods or services supplied under a
      contract which any national or international financing
      institution or agency other than the Bank or the
      Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or
      which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or
Page  7
      agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.    expenditures for goods included in the following groups or
      sub-groups of the Standard International Trade
      Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by
      the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No.
      34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or
      sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as
      designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
      Group             Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                   -             Alcoholic beverages
      121                   -             Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                          refuse
      122                   -             Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                          or not containing tobacco sub-
                                          stitutes)
      525                   -             Radioactive and associated
                                          materials
      667                   -             Pearls, precious and semi-
                                          precious stones, unworked or
                                          worked
      718                718.7            Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                          thereof; fuel elements
                                          (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                          for nuclear reactors
      728.43                -             Tobacco processing machinery
      897                897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                          platinum group metals (except
                                          watches and watch cases) and
                                          goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                          wares (including set gems)
      971                   -             Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                          gold ores and concentrates)
4.    expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
      military purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.    expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for
      purposes of this paragraph the term "environmentally
      hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or
      import of which is prohibited under the laws of the
      Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower
      is a party; and
6.    in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the
      General Conditions, expenditures:  (a) in the territories
      of any country which is not a member of the Association or
      for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such
      territories; or (b) on account of any payment to persons
      or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or
      import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
      Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of
      the United Nations.
                                SCHEDULE 2
         Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.    Submission to the Association of satisfactory evidence
that the collection targets for electricity on the end-consumer
level and between Sakenergo and the distribution companies, as
agreed upon with the Association, have been achieved.
Page  8
2.    Submission to the Borrower's legislature of legislation
for regulating voluntary private pension schemes.
3.    Completion of privatization or initiation of liquidation
of 7,200 small and 200 additional medium- and large-scale
enterprises.
4.    Issuance of a Decree amending  Decree No. 875 of December
26, 1994; Decree No. 22 of January 28, 1995; Decree No. 81 of
February 17, 1995; Decree No. 12 of February 17, 1995; Decree
No. 248 of May 10, 1995; Decree No. 166 of May 14, 1995; Decree
No. 228 of June 11, 1995 and Decree No. 303 of August 7, 1995,
to eliminate restrictions on privatization of enterprises
listed in the above Decrees, except for a list of enterprises,
acceptable to the Association, in which the Borrower would keep
51 percent of shares.
5.    Submission to the Association of satisfactory evidence
that at least 51 percent of the shares of all remaining
bakeries and at least 10 mills of the State Bread Corporation
have been offered for sale.
6.    Liberalization of the price of bread and removal of profit
margins control on grain and flour.
7.    The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the
implementation of its land privatization program regarding the
transfer of agricultural land into private ownership, has
established the legal framework needed for land titling and
land registration and has adopted procedures, acceptable to the
Association, for long-term transferable leases to make
available public land for private use.
8.    Submission of a report accompanied by adequate evidence,
demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Association that the
National Bank of Georgia has taken all actions as shall be
consistent with the monitoring program and timetable, approved
by the Association pursuant to the provisions of  Section 5.01
of this Agreement.
9.    Elimination of the requirement of ex-ante registration of
export contracts.
10.   Amendment of the Foreign Investment Law to introduce a
system of  expeditious approval of investments which do not
infringe upon national security concerns or other legitimate
exigencies of national interest and to remove preferential tax
treatment for foreign investors.
