Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19762
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS DRAINAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2517-UNI)
October 7, 1999
Water and Urban 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Naira (N)
US$1    =       4.56 (1988)
7.38 (1989)
8.06 (1990)
10.46 (1991)
17.26 (1992)
23.46 (1993)
21.94 (1994)
71.75 (1995)
81.49 (1996)
82.20 (1997)
90.00 (1998)
100.00 (1999)
Fiscal year
JANUARY TO DECEMBER
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)                0.62 miles
I meter (m)                     3.28 feet
25.4 millimeters (mm)      =    1 inch
1 cubic meter (m)          =    264 US gallons
1000 liters
3.8 liters (1)             =    1 US gallon
4.5 liters (1)                   1 Imperial gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACCRONYMS
CDA            Community Development Association
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
FMC            Financial Management Consultant
JICA           Japan International Cooperation Agency
LASEPA        Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency
LASG           Lagos State Government
LAWMA          Lagos Waste Management Authority
LRIS           Land Related Information System
LSVO           Lagos State Valuation Office
MEPP           Ministry of Environment & Physical Planning
MIS            Management Information System
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SPO            Standing Payment Order
URB           Urban Renewal Board
WTP            Willingness to pay
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager: Letitia A. Obeng
Team Leader: David Henley



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS DRAINAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR 2517-UNI)
Table of Contents
Preface                                                                              i
Evaluation Summary                                                                   i
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                            1
A. BACKGROUND                                                                     1
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                      1
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                              3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                            5
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                                         6
F. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                               7
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                           7
H. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME                                                  7
I. FUTURE OPERATION                                                               8
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                                            8
PART II.  STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Studies Included in Project
Table 6A: Project Costs
Table 6B: Project Financing
Table 7:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 8:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 11:  Targeted and Achieved Outputs
Table 12:  Status of Physical Works
Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower's contribution to the ICR
C. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfiormance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS DRAINAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR 2517-UNI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project
in Nigeria, for which Credit 2517-UNI was approved on June 17, 1993 in the amount of SDR 44.5 million
(US$63.0 million equivalent) and made effective on April 21, 1994. The Credit was closed on March
31,1999, nine months after the closing date originally specified in the Development Credit Agreement. It
was fully disbursed, with final disbursement taking place on September 16, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Jonadab Metibaiye (Consultant, AFMNG) and Oluwole Komolafe
(Local Consultant) and reviewed by Eleanor Warner (Financial Analyst, AFTU2) and David Henley
(Task Team Leader, AFTU2). A country team review meeting took place on September 15, 1999 chaired
by Mr. Yaw Ansu, Country Director for Nigeria. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by commenting on the Bank's draft and preparing an evaluation which is in Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR began with a mission in January 1999 and is based on information in the
project files and discussions with the Borrower and stakeholders. The ICR also incorporates results of an
evaluation carried out during the final supervision mission in September 1998 as well as the evaluation
reports prepared by the Borrower for the project completion workshop' held in March 1998.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS DRAINAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR 2517-UNI)
Evaluation Summary
Background
i.   The entire Lagos metropolis is subject to periodic flooding and therefore needs dependable storm
drainage. This is especially so because in many areas storm drainage systems are also the only means of
sanitary drainage. The Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project (Cr. 2517-UNI) is a follow-up of the
previous project, Lagos Solid. Waste and Storm Drainage Project Ln. 2620-UNI, which addressed two of
the most urgent urban development problems besetting the Lagos metropolis besides resource
mobilization. These were: (a) accumulation of solid waste in streets and unauthorized refuse dumps,
creating major health hazards and causing traffic congestion; and (b) severe flooding that paralyzed parts
of the city during the rainy season. Preparation of designs for Cr 2517 was also financed under the first
project. The project under review was appraised in May 1993 and approved in June 1993, and the credit
became effective in April 1994.
Project Objectives
ii.   The major objectives of the project were to: (i) improve the long-term ability of the Lagos
metropolis to sustain and improve its functioning as an economic center; (ii) improve the living
conditions in parts of Lagos subject to periodic flooding by improving storm water drainage in
accordance with long-term improvement and development plans; and (iii) support initial steps in
upgrading other urban services by preparing plans, feasibility studies and designs for urban upgrading and
improved human waste and waste water disposal, and continued support to Lagos Waste Management
Authority (LAWMA) in organization and system development.
iii.  Evaluation of Objectives: The project's objectives were clear and consistent with the underlying
goal to incrementally improve the management of storm drainage and sanitation in Lagos, and the
components were adequate to realize the project's objectives.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.   Overall, the project substantially achieved most of its objectives by considerably reducing the
severity, frequency and duration of flooding in the areas targeted by the project. Under the drainage
component, 52.8 km of concrete lined drains and 10.8 km of earth channels were constructed, while
41.63 km of primary channels and 115 km of both secondary and tertiary drains were cleared and
repaired under the maintenance program. The impact of drain cleaning was jeopardized by the failure of
local govemnment to clean tertiary drains, which subsequently caused deposits to form in secondary and
primary drains. The limited resettlement required to permit construction of the drains was satisfactorily
completed.
v.   Willingness-to-pay studies for sanitation and other urban services were carried out; also feasibility
studies and detailed design for sewerage and sanitation works for the priority areas of Victoria Island,
Lagos Island/Ikoyi, Apapa, and Ikeja were completed. An industrial database and map which provided
baseline data for industrial effluent, receiving water bodies and gaseous emissions were produced, and
industrial effluent standards and guidelines were established. Equipment, vehicles and laboratory



-ii-
facilities were procured to facilitate pollution control and continuous monitoring of industrial discharges
within the Lagos metropolis.
vi.  A program was prepared for urban upgrading in the most blighted areas of Lagos and a
demonstration project was satisfactorily completed. There was appreciable improvement in the living
standard of the people living in the Badia-Olojowon area with access, drainage, water supply, electricity,
and sanitation and health facilities becoming more readily available in the community.
vii.  An administrative procedure for assessment, enumeration and evaluation of ratable properties
throughout the metropolis was introduced, and valuation records of three local government areas: were
computerized to facilitate revenue collection.
viii. Digital orthophoto maps covering the entire Lagos metropolis, a Land Related Information System
(LRIS) for a pilot area of 40 sq. km, satellite imageries covering the entire state and topographic
information at 0.5m interval, which can be superimposed on the orthophoto map, were produced under
the project.
ix.   Equipment and vehicles owned by LAWMA were refurbished in order to improve refuse
collection, and disposal and site equipment was procured to facilitate landfill operations. A transfer
loading station was constructed and equipment procured to facilitate operation of the station. To ensure
sustainability of activities, LAWMA entered into a maintenance contract for regular maintenance of its
equipment and vehicles. A Performance and Financial Management Information System was installed to
assist LAWMA improve its operational performance. Regular changes by the government in solid waste
management had a serious impact on LAWMA and this component.
x.   The re-evaluated economic rate of return is 21%, slightly lower than the ex-ante return of 22%.
xi.  The Credit, which was originally scheduled to close on June 30, 1998, was extended by nine
months to March 31, 1999 to allow completion of on-going physical works under a few contracts which
suffered delays as a result of the inability of the contractor to take possession of the site or poor contractor
performance. The extension also allowed the completion of studies and design of the drainage system of
the extended Greater Lagos area.
xii.  The performance of the Borrower, consultants and the Bank were satisfactory throughout project
implementation, and relations between them were cordial and constructive.
xiii. There was a request for inspection of the project based on allegations that (i) the project resulted in
forced eviction of about 2,000 persons and threats of eviction of thousands of others in the Ijora Oloye
and Ijora Badia areas; (ii) the Bank did harm to the affected people by its failure to follow its own policies
and procedures applicable to the project. These allegations were examined by IDA Marnagement and
were refuted. Subsequently, a representative of the Inspection Panel of the Bank determined in
November 1998 that the thrust of the accusations was exaggerated and, in some cases, untrue. As a result
of this inspection, small compensation (about $2,000 in total) was paid to 17 ex-householders who had
not been identified as requiring compensation at the time the resettlement plan was prepared.
Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability
xiv. The project objectives were largely achieved and most ofthe components were successfully carried
out. Sustainability of the project is rated uncertain and dependent on continued availability of finance for
municipal services. A separate drainage maintenance account was established in which funds were
released through budgetary allocation, albeit intermittently. If maintained, this mechanism will ensure
that funds required for maintenance will become available after project closure. Also, the direct labor



-iii-
organization set up in the Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning (MEPP) will continue to carry
out maintenance of tertiary and some secondary channels. Private sector contractors, engaged during
project implementation for maintenance of large secondary and primary channels, have an interest in
continuing their activities and will continue to be used after project closure. For the solid waste
component, LAWMA has entered into a maintenance agreement with private sector contractors for
regular maintenance of its plant and vehicles, which will help ensure collection vehicles and other plant
remain in service.
xv.  Staff training was specifically directed towardsidentified needs of individuals participating in the
program, and involved formal training and work attachments in similar organizations. It helped to ensure
an adequate capacity to manage and maintain project investments. A Land Information System Support
Unit (LISSU) was set up to manage and maintain the Land Information System. Similarly, a Community
Development Association (CDA) was set up at the inception of the urban upgrading program to manage
and maintain public facilities. The community health center and primary school have been handed over
to, and are being managed by, the Local Government and State Primary Education Board, respectively.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The principal lessons learned are:
xvi. Project ownership: Project selection, preparation and design must involve beneficiaries from the
beginning, as was done in this project, to avoid problems associated with project ownership.
Implementation proceeds more smoothly when the project unit feels full ownership of the project.
Ownership and project success are enhanced, if the full range of the Borrower's concerns can be
addressed under the project.
xvii. Financial Management Consultant (FMC): The use of a FMC, who had primary responsibility for
finance-management (payment ledgers, commitments disbursements and monitoring of project accounts),
is a creative innovation that has worked well in comparison to the Bank's former approach in Nigeria of
using independent banks for this function. However, although the FMC prepared the financial reports,
there was no transfer of skills from the FMC to any member of the PCU. This was of particular
importance as the Project Accountant, who was seconded from LASG, did not have the requisite
professional support in terms of staffing to take care of these additional responsibilities.
xviii. Counterpart Fund Contribution:  The usual delays experienced in obtaining the required
counterpart funds were avoided by using Standing Payment Order (SPO) (direct deductions from the
regular Federal contribution to state finance) which proved particularly effective. This method of resource
mobilization has been generally accepted in all World Bank-financed projects in Nigeria.
xix. Establishment of a Maintenance Account: The lack of maintenance culture in the country has not,
until now, been made a priority in concrete terms. The project ensured that a maintenance account was
established into which funds are released by LASG for regular maintenance of the various drains
constructed. The release of funds into the account was through budgetary allocations. In some instances,
what was budgeted was not released at the time the funds were needed. More attention should be paid to
this account so as to assist in achieving sustainability of drainage works. The budgeted amount should be
released voluntarily and on time to the drainage department as a sign of financial discipline by the LASG
and to show the importance attached to maintenance of government assets.
xx.  Project Supervision: Qualified staff from implementing agencies were involved in the supervision
of works along with the private sector consultant engaged for construction supervision. Cases of
conflicting site instructions to contractors were recorded which gave the contractor an excuse to ignore
legitimate instructions. Though the capacity of the PIU to supervise and manage works of this nature and



-iv-
scope have been greatly enhanced, the role and responsibilities of supervision consultants compared to the
PIU must be clearly defined in order to avoid conflicts.
xxi. An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out during project preparation and a
detailed resettlement plan was prepared prior to implementation of works, as agreed during negotiations
of the project. Programs were developed for resettlement of affected people and properties. However,
there were unsubstantiated complaints (para xiii above) of forcible eviction in some sections of the
drainage works. In future Bank-assisted projects and especially in heavily built up areas, apart from a
resettlement plan, there should be inspection of sites and a very detailed recording of conditions prior to
commencement of implementation. There is always a lag time between project approval and
implementation, when uncontrolled developments can take place.
xxii. Implementation of drainage maintenance under contract using schedules of rates proved effective
and economical. However, additional work is needed to increase flexibility of contract documents
utilized under this project. Further, though different levels of government may be responsible, it is
important in drainage maintenance to ensure that the cleaning program includes all levels of drainage
(primary through tertiary) because of their impact on each other (litter deposited in tertiary drains ends up
blocking primaries), since an effective program of community enlightment is important.
xxiii. The concept of implementing a pilot proj ect to demonstrate the benefits of urban upgrading appears
to be particularly effective. The pilot implemented under this project has generated spontaneous
development at the site, and considerable interest in replication among potential financiers. Even though
it was planned and implemented with full community participation, it also demonstrated that in expanding
the program, additional attention needs to be given to the logistics of community management of
facilities.
xxiv. Clear identification of training needs and tailoring of training programs to individual needs lead to
effective capacity building.
xxv.   Prior to carrying out the willingness-to-pay study, there was a general belief among the
government officials and beneficiaries that provision of water and sanitation is a social service, and
therefore, people would be unwilling to pay for these services. However, a study conducted under the
project to assess the willingness-to-pay for drainage, water and sanitation services clearly indicated that
people are willing to pay to cover a modest service level, which suggests that it is possible to make
provision of sanitation services financially viable and sustainable, as long as these services are reliable
and in line with people's expectations.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS DRAINAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR 2517-UNI)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    The entire Lagos metropolis is subject to periodic flooding and therefore needs dependable storm
drainage. This is especially so because in many areas storm drainage systems are also the only means of
sanitary drainage. In September 1985, the Lagos Solid Waste and Storm Drainage project (Ln. 2620) was
approved to finance the highest priority drainage works for some areas of Lagos Mainland in accordance
with a master plan prepared in 1974. An autonomous authority, Lagos Waste Management Authority
(LAWMA) was established under Loan 2620 and a system introduced for revenue generation, including
revaluation of properties and establishment of new valuation lists. The Lagos Drainage and Sanitation
Project (Cr. 2517) was a follow-up of the previous project intended to continue addressing urgent drainage
and sanitation problems besetting the Lagos metropolis, including accumulation of solid waste in streets,
unauthorized refuse dumps creating major health hazards and causing traffic congestion, and severe flooding
that paralyzed parts of the city during the rainy season. The project was appraised in May 1993, approved in
June 1993 and became effective in April 1994.
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Statement of Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to:
(a) improve the long-term ability of the Lagos metropolis to improve and sustain its functioning as
an economic center;
(b) improve living conditions in parts of Lagos which suffer from regular inundation by improving
stormwater drainage in accordance with long term plans and as a follow up to a previous project; and
(c) support initial steps in upgrading other urban services by preparing plans, feasibility studies and
designs for urban upgrading and improved human waste and waste water disposal, and continued
support to LAWMA in organization and system development.
Statement of Project Components
3.    The project comprised two parts:
Part A.    Physical Works
(i) rehabilitating (re-dredging and lining) the main Surulere Channel (System 5). Dredging of the
channel accepting flows from a large part of South-West and Central Lagos mainland, including
drains constructed under the previous project. The works included dredging, lining of channels and
construction of an access road on one side of the channel for future maintenance. This required a
major culvert across Western Avenue Expressway to remove an existing constriction:
(ii) primary and secondary lined drainage channels, covered box conduits and culverts in three
areas (Oshodi/Apapa ]Expressway, City Way, Lagos University Teaching Hospital) of central
mainland Lagos to relieve regular flooding. These works were to augment drainage improvements



-2-
carried out under the previous project, and replace an existing culvert crossing on the Oshodi/Apapa
expressway to remove an existing constriction;
(iii) upgrading and augmenting the highest priority existing drains for Lagos Island;
(iv) upgrading, realigning and lining of highest priority outfall drains in Apapa, the port and
industrial area of Lagos;
(v) implementing a regular drainage maintenance program, by contract, and the establishment of a
separate drainage maintenance account to ensure timely availability of funds for the program; and
(vi) constructing a transfer station and providing a bulk carriers and additional spare parts for
LAWMA.
Part B. Technical Assistance
(i) carrying out a willingness-to-pay study and development of a sanitation strategy, and
preparation of plans, feasibility studies and designs for future developments in sanitation, including
conventional sewerage where appropriate and supply of laboratory equipment for pollution
monitoring;
(ii) assisting the newly created Urban Renewal Board (URB) to review its charter and plan its
development strategy, to prepare an urban renewal project and undertake a demonstration project;
(iii) developing revenue billing and collecting systemns;
(iv) developing a mapping ability and Land Information System (LIS) for Lagos;
(v) assisting LAWMA with its commercial development, to expand its management information
system, and engineering studies for future waste disposal sites;
(vi) supervising construction, implementing the regular drainage maintenance program and
preparing designs for future investment projects; and
(vii) training and work attachments for staff in each of the above fields.
Risks
4.    The major risks identified in the SAR were: (a) counterpart funds not becoming available as
required; (b) necessary funding for drain maintenance not continuing beyond the life of the project; and (c)
sewerage/sanitation studies and urban upgrading not leading to sustainable investments. The first of these
risks was adequately addressed by requiring deduction of counterpart funds from the Federation account.
The second was addressed by establishing a maintenance account into which budgetary funds were regularly
released and private sector involvement. While a mechanism was set in place, and the interest of the private
sector was generated, whether it will continue after project completion is uncertain. Sewerage studies
remain unimplemented. However, the new Lagos administration has requested that they be taken up in
conjunction with privatization of Lagos water supply. Finally, the urban upgrading demonstration pilot has
generated considerable spontaneous development on the site, and interest in replication among financiers.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
5.    The project's objectives were clear and consistent with the underlying goal to incrementally improve
management of storm drainage and sanitation in Lagos, and the components were adequate to realize the
project's objectives.



-3-
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    The physical objectives were substantially met. Table 12 shows the status of the physical works at
Credit closing, including comparative data on original versus actual quantities completed, original versus
actual duration, and original contract versus actual costs. A total of 52.8 km of concrete lined drains and
10.8 km of earth channel were constructed. The project financed the maintenance of 41.6 km of primary
channels and 115 km of both secondary and tertiary drains.
7.    The objective of improving the living conditions in parts of Lagos which previously suffered regular
inundation was substantially achieved. Improving storm water drainage has considerably reduced the
severity, frequency and duration of flooding in the areas of Lagos targeted by the project.
8.    Prior to appraisal, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out for the stormwater
drainage system. Properties within the right-of-way of the channels were identified and a resettlement plan
prepared. On the Apapa Priority I Works, the EIA studies identified the need to remove squatter settlements
located along the channel alignment within Arakan Barracks. A resettlement program was developed which
culminated in the construction of 46 one-bedroom apartments, 294 lock-up shops and an abattoir funded by
the State Government for the inhabitants of this area.
9.    There was a request for inspection of the project based on allegations that (i) the project resulted in
forced eviction of about 2,000 persons and threats of eviction of thousands of others in the Ijora Oloye and
Ijora Badia areas; (ii) the Bank did harm to the affected people by its failure to follow its own policies and
procedures applicable to the project. These allegations were examined by IDA Management and were
refuted. Subsequently, a representative of the Inspection Panel of the Bank determined in November 1998
that the thrust of the accusations was exaggerated and, in some cases, untrue. As a result of this inspection,
small compensation (about $2,000 in total) was paid to 17 ex-householders who had not been identified as
requiring compensation at the tiime the resettlement plan was prepared.
10.   The Credit was extended once from its original closing date of June 30, 1998 to March 31, 1999,
mainly to allow ongoing physical works to be completed, especially on the Oshodi/Isolo drainage channel,
and Surulere System 5 Phases I and II. Some of the works suffered construction delays, as discussed in
Section D.
11.   Institutional Objectives: The objective to upgrade urban services by preparing plans, feasibility
studies and designs for urban upgrading and improved human waste and waste water disposal, and also to
strengthen capacity within the LAWMA, was substantially achieved.
12.   Sewerage and Sanitation. Willingness-to-pay, feasibility studies and detailed design for sewerage
and sanitation works were carried out for four priority areas, namely, Victoria Island, Ikoyi and Lagos Island,
Apapa, and Ikeja and environs. The studies examined several alternatives to resolving sewerage and
sanitation problems in the four priority areas, based on alternative development and planning options, site
locations, and technologies for waste water treatment. Two workshops were held primarily to obtain the
agreement of the stakeholders for selected options in the four priority areas.
13.   Environmental Pollution Control/Sanitation.  An industrial database and map which provided
baseline data for industrial effluent, receiving water bodies and gaseous emissions were produced, and
industrial effluent standards and guidelines established. This was aimed at improving the quality of water
bodies in Lagos State. The industrial database and map will assist the Lagos State Environmental Protection
Agency (LASEPA) in establishing an effective monitoring program for industrial effluent, and analytical
assessment of the quality of the environment. Additionally, equipment, vehicles and laboratory facilities
were procured to facilitate effective pollution control and continuous monitoring of industrial discharges.
14.   Solid Waste Management. A study for restructuring LAWMA was completed early in the project
and some recommendations were implemented. Assistance to LAWMA for its commercial development was



-4-
achieved through rehabilitation of equipment and vehicles and procurement of equipment for operation of the
landfill site. To improve the haulage period of solid waste from southem Lagos, the site of the defunct
incinerating plant at Simpson Street was converted to a transfer loading station and appropriate equipment
procured to facilitate its operation. A performance and financial Management Information System was
installed for the establishment of a database to evaluate the operational perfommance of LAWIVIA's vehicles
and equipment; monitor cost of operation and provide LAWMA with direct costs for detemiining annual
budget requirements based on actual costs; monitor and verify operational targets for major services ; and
provide LAWMA with the financial tools required to assist in management decision-making. However, due
to several changes by governmuent in the management of solid waste in the city, LAWMA remLained starved
of funds.
15.   Land Related Information System:  The development of a mapping ability and Land Related
Information System (LRIS) is rated as satisfactory with the following achievements: (a) digital orthophoto
mapping at a scale of 1:2000, covering the entire metropolitan Lagos (500 sq.m.); (b) topographic
information at 0.5m, interval which can be superimposed on the orthophoto map ; (c) geometrically correct
satellite image mapping covering the entire Lagos State are at a scale of 1:25,000; and (d) Land Related
Information System for a pilot area of 40sq.km (Ikej a area).
16.   A user requirement study was conducted and the following four major applications of LRIS
developed: ground demand notices generation; neighborhood improvement charges; land registration,
including searches and other information; and land information certificates. These applications helped to
ensure optimization of the system and enhance the revenue base of the Lands and Housing office.
17.   Urban Upgrading: The objective to support an initial step in upgrading urban services was achieved.
A four-year community infrastructure upgrading program for 800 hectares of blighted urban area within
metropolitan Lagos was developed. Affordable community slandards for infrastructure were also developed.
These standards were used to prepare preliminary and subsequently detailed engineering for a demonstration
project covering about 25 hectares to test the ideas developed for the four-year program. The demonstration
project, sited at Badia-Olojowon, the most highlighted area, involved providing and upgrading/rehabilitating
basic infrastructure namely: roads, drains, water supply, sanitation, solid waste, street lighting,
communication and social infrastructure (health center and primary school), and was developed under
demand driven approach. It has been particularly effective in showing how the living condition of the poor
can be improved, and has resulted in a spontaneous development of the area and upgrading of individual
dwellings.
18.   The edict setting up the Lagos State Urban Renewal Board (URB) was reviewed and modified to
improve on URB's legal strength in the areas of revenue generation, reduction of land ownership claims and
its capability to utilize funds for urban renewal projects. URB's organizational chart which in the past did
not clearly define the responsibilities and accountabilities of the various units was reviewed and re-focussed
on unit responsibilities. Specific units for revenue management, institutional development, research and
training, project management and monitoring were created as an additional focus of the operations.
19.   Recommendations were made on the need to strengthen the Engineering and Architectural units of
URB to enable them to undertake project management and monitoring activities. Training prograrns to
improve the competence of URB's professional staff were identified.
20.   Training: The objective to build capacity through various training programs and work attachments
was substantially achieved. A total of 104 officers benefited from training, both locally and outside Nigeria,
in areas where they could demonstrate a need for added competence. While 12 people profited from long-
term courses, ranging between 12 and 24 months, 36 attended short-term courses of between I to 6 months
duration. Thirty-eight people went on work attachment programs and study tours. In-house training was
organized for secretaries and level officers on computer skills. Also, six officers received on-the-job training
sewerage systems management. A training impact assessment study revealed that officers' skills were
improved, and in some cases, the officers acquired new skills. However, the study indicated that lack of



-5-
necessary equipment, materials, and funding to some extent impaired sustained on-the-job application of the
improved or new skills.
21.   The financial objective to sustain the Lagos metropolis as an economic center as well as to improve
the living conditions of its populace was substantially achieved. The completion of the project resulted in
higher property values in the areas that were once affected by flooding. Capacity strengthening of the Lagos
State Valuation Office (LSVO) allowed a reliable determination of the potential revenue base from the
properties in the state. An administrative procedure for assessment, enumeration and evaluation of ratable
properties throughout the metropolis was introduced, which made it possible for the State to have a valuation
list of all ratable properties. Tenement rate collection increased sevenfold following completion of works.
22.   Economic Objectives: Actual project cost (in US $) was used for estimating IRR as was done at
appraisal. Estimated benefits are based on estimates at appraisal, adjusted for Naira devaluation. The
economic revaluation of the project gives Internal Rate of Retum of 21%, which is 1 percentage point below
the 22% IRR that was projected for the project, when actual costs streams were substituted for the estimates.
Certain other benefits relating to health, commercial and industrial development derivable from the project,
which cannot be easily and accurately quantified could not be included in the re-evaluation. The IRR lies
within an acceptable range, thereby making the project worthwhile.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
23.   Factors Not Subject to Government Control: Performance of contractors: The main factor
exogenous to the project that affected implementation was the poor performance of the contractor on
Surulere System 5 Phase I. Considerable delays were experienced due to cash flow problems. The
contractor refused to follow site instructions, which resulted in errors having to be corrected. Unacceptable
construction methods used by the contractor led to poor workmanship and consequently, the rejection of
sections of the works. Inclement weather also served to delay these works. As a result, the contractor could
embark on works for the construction of the major culvert crossing Western Avenue expressway.
Disbursements against this contract were suspended due to poor quality and slow pace of work. The
suspension was lifted six months later when the situation improved.
24.   The Surulere System  5 Phase II initially faced similar delays due to the contractor's poor
workmanship. However, the works witnessed improved workmanship as it progressed. Due to the difficult
terrain and, to some extent, the contractor's poor site and financial management, the works planned to be
completed within 24 months extended to 44 months.
25.   Withdrawal of the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Another factor which affected
the timely completion of the project was the withdrawal of the JICA which had expressed interest in co-
financing (US$2million equivalent) of the Technical Assistance component of the project. JICA's
withdrawal created an initial funding gap, which had to be absorbed by the LASG.
26.   Macroeconomic Problems. Due to steady devaluation of the Naira, there was a corresponding
increase in the price of materials. The Naira plummeted fronN 22 to the US$ in 1993 to N 92 by the close
of the project. The depreciation of the Naira required LASG to increase the level of its monthly contribution
of counterpart funds, perhaps to the detriment of being able to finance maintenance adequately.
27.   Factors Subject to Government Control: Delay in Meeting Conditions for Effectiveness. The
effectiveness conditions included provision of legal opinion on the Development Credit Agreement (DCA),
Project Agreement (PA) and the Sub-Loan Agreement (SLA), and establishment of the mechanism for
payment of counterpart contributions by SPO. There was a delay of about five months.
28.   Conflict in Roles and Responsibilities: There was a lack of communication between the consultant
hired by the client and the project engineer which led to conflicting instructions to contractors and



-6-
consequently, delays in implementation. Various missions attempted to ameliorate this situation by stressing
the need for all parties to work together.
29.    Delay in Relocation of Services. In many cases, facilities such as electricity and telephone cables,
water supply mains, electricity transformers and railway lines are located on the right way of the drainage
channel. These facilities required relocation in order to make way for the channels. In other cases, there was
a need to build culverts across federal highways. These cases involved various government agencies
approving the relocation of such facilities, or in the case of highways, cutting of the roads. There were
considerable delays in reaching agreement among the concemed agencies. As a result, some of the physical
works suffered considerable delays because of the contractor's inability to take possession of the sites. For
instance, the Oshodi/Isolo drainage channel, whose construction period had been put at 24 months, extended
up to 40 months because the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing did not respond in giving approval to
the construction of the culvert near Rutam House, along the Apapa/Oworonshoki Expressway. A, similar
situation occurred where a culvert crossed the Agege Motor Road and the railway line at Oshodi.
30.    Scarcity of Petroleum Products. Most of the contracts suffered delays as a result of scarcity of
petroleum products. The scarcity, which became noticeable in early 1997, resulted in arbitrary increases in
the price of petrol and diesel required by the contractors for their vehicles and equipment.  A further
consequence was the increase of construction materials and transportation costs.
31.    Delay in Payment of Contractors' Certificate  The project suffered some delays as a result of
delayed payment of contractors' certificates. This was due to the level of internal administrative approvals
required. For every payment, the approval of the Military Administrator ( M.A.) was required and he was
not always readily accessible. Equally important were the frequent changes in Government officials who
were signatories to both the Special and Project Accounts, i.e. Commissioners, Accountant General, and
some times, the M.A.
32.   Indiscriminate Dumping of Refuse. Due to poor sanitation habits, people dump their waste including
excreta into channels resulting in blockages and flooding of construction sites. The contractor had to first
clean the channels before commencement of work especially after the rains. The project was not successful
in encouraging local government to accept their responsibility for tertiary drainage, or in making people
aware of the impact of indiscriminate waste disposal.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.    Sustainability of the project is considered uncertain and dependent on continued availability of
finance for municipal services. The project objectives were largely achieved and most of the components
were successfully carried out. A separate drainage maintenance account was established in which funds were
released through budgetary allocation, albeit intermittently. This will ensure that funds required for
maintenance become available even after project closure. Also, the direct labor organization set up in the
MEPP will continue to carry out maintenance of tertiary and some secondary channels. Similarly, private
sector contractors engaged during project implementation for maintenance of large secondary and primary
channels, will continue to be used after the project closure. For the solid waste component, LAWMA has
entered into maintenance agreement with private sector contractors for regular maintenance of its plants and
vehicles, and to ensure equipment remains operational.
34.    Capacity Building: Almost all staff who benefited from training and work attachment programs
remain in their respective places of primary assignment and will therefore be able to utilize acquired skills to
plan and supervise further development the Lagos metropolis.
35.    Ownership: As a participatory approach had been adopted from the beginning, there was a clear
understanding and agreement between the state and local governments on priorities on where projects should
be located. However, lack of adequate attention by local governments to keeping tertiary drains clear has
compromised to some extent the state's drain clearing program. To ensure sustainability of project



-7-
investments, a Community Development Association (CDA) was set up at the inception of the Urban
Upgrading program to manage and maintain some of the public facilities. The community health center and
primary school have been handed over to, and is being managed by, the Local Government and the State
Primary Education Board (SPEB), respectively.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
36.   The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation, appraisal and implementation was
generally satisfactory. This project was a follow-up project for which there was a clear identified need.
There was adequate involvement and consultation with project stakeholders at the inception of the project,
thus allowing beneficiaries to be part of the decision-making process. The Bank did not, however, give
adequate recognition to the impact of local government on the ongoing operation of the facilities.
37.   The Bank had at least two full supervision missions per year throughout the duration of the project,
and in addition to that, a Municipal Engineer was available at the Resident Mission in Nigeria to follow-up
on critical actions between missions and maintain close liaison with the PIU. There were no changes in Bank
personnel throughout the project cycle (appraisal through project closure). The Bank was flexible, and
consequently able to resolve problems and implementation issues that might otherwise have slowed down the
project.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   The Borrower's performance during project preparation, appraisal and implementation was
satisfactory with reservations indicated in Section D. There were none of the usual implementation delays
customary to projects in Nigeria as LASG was able to bring its experience and skills from the previous
project to bear. The staff of the implementation unit and the executing agencies were adequately qualified
and had the necessary skills and experience to implement the project successfully. There was stability in the
implementation unit as no major management changes were made that could disrupt the successful
implementation of the project. Despite the fluctuations of the Naira against the dollar, the LASG was able to
make the required counterpart funds available when needed, by establishing an SPO with the FMF and thus
guaranteeing adequate funding of the project. Compliance with Bank's reporting system and financial
reporting requirements were adequately and timely met. The use of a Financial Management Consultant,
engaged from the private sector, was innovative and useful in inculcating financial discipline into the project.
H. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
39.   The project's outcome is satisfactory as most of the objectives were achieved. With the completion
of the drainage works and maintenance of the existing ones, the incidence of flooding in the project areas
have been reduced considerably. Roads that were regularly flooded before the project are no longer flooded,
thus allowing for free flow of traffic. Property values have gone up in these areas and the living conditions
of the people inhabiting the flood prone areas have improved. Construction of the drainage system has
resulted in lowering of the water table in those areas, thus leading to reclamation of land hitherto lost to
flooding.
40.   An innovative sewerage development plan has been prepared for priority areas of Lagos, and is
available for implementation when financing can be identified. The Lagos State Environmental Protection
Agency (LASEPA), through the project, is now in a position to effectively monitor and control the discharge
of industrial effluent into water bodies in the Lagos metropolis.
41.   Procurement of the equipment for operation of both the landfill site and the transfer loading station,
respectively, was completed and will improve the operations of LAWMA. The initiative of carrying out
plant maintenance (regular and special) under contract to the private sector, has proved effective in that
sufficient vehicles have been kept on the road in good operating condition under this arrangement.



-8-
42.   The legal framework setting up URB was strengthened to enable it to generate revenue for urban
renewal projects. URB's organizational chart was reviewed and emphasis placed on units' responsibilities.
The upgrading of basic facilities and provision of a health center and primary school in Eadia-Olojowon
resulted in improved living standard and environment of the community. Spontaneous development has
resulted and donor interest in replicating the effort has been generated.
43.   The outcome of the LRIS is the development of four applications which has the potential to i-mnprove
the revenue base of the State Govemment, especially on land related matters, if given sufficient priority by
the government.
44.   Through the strengthening of the LSVO and the computerization of billing and collection system in
two pilot Local Governments, collection of tenement rate increased tremendously. LSVO is now in a
position to update data on property enumeration and valuation.
45.   The project outcome with respect to training is satisfactory. The training impact assessment also
revealed that the training improved existing skills and, in several cases, the trainees acquired new skills. The
capacity of the training officer to design and implement training programs has been enhanced.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
46.   Maintenance of the works provided under the project will continue to be dependent on municipal
finance, which has increased considerably during the implementation of the project. A mechanism has been
established for carrying out and financing drain maintenance, utilizing municipal finance. Some local
governments have been strengthened and their revenue generation capacity improved under the project,
however clearing of tertiary drains, a local government responsibility, and improper waste disposal by the
communities, remain the weak links in future operation. LASG Drainage Department has agreed to continue
to make timely budget requests to conduct drain maintenance activities through contract or direct labor, and
to continue to work with local government to improve the state of tertiary drains.
47.   Any future Bank support to drainage and sanitation activities would take into account the
achievements, shortfalls and lessons emanating from the project implementation. As such, one major benefit
of the successful implementation of the drainage component is the considerable reduction in the incidence of
flooding in those areas where drainage works were carried out. This benefit resulted in enhanced economic
activities in these areas. However, the areas covered by the drainage system is limited to about 40%/o of the
Lagos metropolis. There is therefore the need to extend the drainage facility to other areas where flooding
still remains a perennial event. To this end, MEPP and the Bank agreed to finance studies and design of the
drainage system of the area called "Greater Lagos." Also, several other studies were conducted which
provide potential entry points for future Bank assistance in urban transport, urban upgrading., sewerage and
sanitation, and LRIS and revenue generation.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
48.   Project ownership: Project selection, preparation and design must involve beneficiaries from the
beginning as was done in this project, to avoid problems associated with project ownership. Implementation
proceeds more smoothly when the project unit assumes full ownership of the project. Ownership and project
success are enhanced if the full range of the Borrower's concerns can be addressed under the project
49.   Financial Management Consultant (FMC): The use of a FMC, who had primary responsibility for
finance-management (payment ledgers, commitments disbursements and monitoring of project accoLnts), is
a creative innovation that has worked well in comparison to the Bank's former approach of using
independent banks. However, although the FMC prepared the financial reports, there was little transfer of
skills from the FMC to any member of the PCU. Continuing use of a FMC will be necessaiy under future
projects until sufficient capacity can be built up within the PCU.



-9-
50.   Counterpart Fund Corntribution: The usual delays experienced in obtaining the required counterpart
funds were avoided through the use of SPOs. This method of resource mobilization has been found to be
generally accepted in all World Bank-financed projects in Nigeria.
51.   Establishment of a Maintenance Account: The lack of maintenance culture in the country has not,
until now, been made a priority in concrete terms. The project ensured that a maintenance account was
established into which funds are released by LASG for regular maintenance of the various drains
constructed. The release of funds into the account was through budgetary allocations. In some instances,
what was budgeted was not released at the time the funds were needed. More attention should be paid to this
account so as to assist in achieving sustainability of the drainage works. The budgeted amount should be
voluntarily released and on time to the drainage department as a sign of financial discipline by the LASG,
and to show the importance attached to maintenance of government assets.
52.   Project Supervision: Qualified staff of the implementing agencies were involved in the supervision
of the various works alongside the private sector consultant engaged for construction supervision. Cases of
conflicting site instructions to the contractors were recorded and this gave the contractor an excuse to ignore
legitimate instructions. Though the capacity of the PIU to supervise and manage works of this nature and
scope have been greatly enhanced, the role and responsibilities of supervision consultants compared to the
PIU must be clearly defined in order to avoid conflicts.
53,   An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out during project preparation and a
detailed resettlement plan was prepared prior to implementation, as agreed during negotiations of the project;
programs were developed for resettlement of affected people and properties. However, there were
unsubstantiated complaints of forcible eviction in some sections of the drainage works. In future, Bank-
assisted projects, especially in heavily built up areas, apart from a resettlement plan, there should be
inspection of sites and a very detailed recording of conditions prior to commencement of implementation.
There is always a lag time between project approval and implementation, during which uncontrolled
developments can take place.
54.   Implementation of drainage maintenance under contract using schedules of rates proved effective
and economical. However, additional work is needed to increase the flexibility of contract documents
utilized under this project. Further, though different levels of government may be responsible, it is important
in drainage maintenance to ensure that the cleaning program includes all levels of drainage (primary through
tertiary) because of their impact on each other (litter deposited in tertiary drains ends up blocking primaries).
55.   The concept of implementing a pilot project to demonstrate the benefits of urban upgrading appears
to be particularly effective.  The pilot implemented under this project has generated considerable
spontaneous development at the site, and considerable interest in replication among potential financiers.
Even though it was planned and implemented with full community participation, it also demonstrated that in
expanding the program, additional attention needs to be given to the logistics of community management of
facilities.
56.   Clear identification of training needs and tailoring of training programs to individual needs leads to
effective capacity building.
57.   Prior to carrying out the willingness-to-pay study, there was a general belief among government
officials and beneficiaries that providing water and sanitation is a social service, and therefore, people would
be unwilling-to-pay for these services. However, a study conducted under the project to assess the
willingness to pay for drainage, water and sanitation services clearly indicated that people are willing to pay
to cover a modest service level, which suggests that it is possible to make provision of sanitation services
financially viable and sustainable as long as these services are reliable and in line with people's expectations.



-10-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives                   Substantial            Partial                gble                     icable
Macro Policies                                0                    0                     0                     Ei
Sector Policies                               0                    El                    0                     El
Financial Objectives                          0                    El                    0                     U
Institutional Development                     0                    El                    0                     El
Physical Objectives                           El                   0                     0                     El
Poverty Reduction                              0                   0                     0                     Cl
Gender Issues                                  0                    l                    0 137
Other Social Objectives                       0                    0                     0 1R
Environmental Objectives                      0l0                                        0                     El
Public Sector Management                      00                                         0                     El
Private Sector Development                    n                    El                    El                    El
Other (specify)                                El                  Ol                    O                     E1
B.  Project Sustainability                      Likely                           Unlikely                        Uncertain
(1)                              (/)                              (e)
00                                E                               21
C.  Bank Performance                           Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       Deficient
(e)                            ()                                (1)
Identification                                0                               0                                 I]
Preparation Assistance                         O                              0                                 I]
Appraisal                                     O                               0                                 I]
Supervision                                   0                               El                                I
Highly
D.   Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       Deficient
(1e                            (                                 (/)
Preparation                                   0                               El
Implementation                                0                               0                                 3
Covenant Compliance                            O                              0
Operation (if applicable)                     0                               Ol
Highly                                                           Highly
E.  Assessment of Outcome                      Satisfactory        Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory         unsatisfactory
(e                  0)                    El(/)
U        El                    O                      []~~



-11-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Preceding operations
LN 1767-UNI Nigerian    Tc, provide (i) sites & services & upgrading in   1979   Closed 6/30/86
States Urban            Bauchi and Gombe towns; (ii) technical
Development Project     assistance at the state & federal levels; and (iii)
urban development feasibility in 7 states.
LN 2607-UNI Imo         To (i) strengthen, federal level capability for  1986    Closed
Urban Development       policy formulation and program monitoring &
Project                 evaluation in the urban sector and extend
preparation assistance to the states; (ii)
demonstrate replicable approach to providing
affordable shelter and related services; and (iii)
build on & strengthen institutional linkages &
capacity in Imo State to carry out future low-
inrcome urban development projects while
improving the local financial resource base
LN 2620-UNI Lagos       To (i) strengthen the administrative, technical &   1985  Closed 9/30/93
Solid Waste and Storm    financial capacity of Lagos state institutions;
Drainage Project        (ii) support the operations of LAWMA, the
stormwater operations of LSG, expanding &
irmproving their services: (iii) assist LSG to
revise & reactivate the rating system for
property tax valuation.
LN 2925-UNI             To initiate the establishment of a mechanism for  1988   Closed 6/30/97
Infrastructure          financing urban infrastructure using selected
Development Fund        merchant banks to identify, appraise, supervise
Project                 and co-fmance sub-projects executed by the
states.
LN 3238-UNI             To promote the efficient functioning of major    1990    Closed 6/30/99
Oyo State Urban Project  towns in Ibadan and Oyo States through city-
wide infrastructure rehabilitation, and
strengthening the institutions responsible for
urban management & local resource
mobilization.



-12-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      February 1992           Febmiay 1992
Preparation                                     May 8, 1992             May 13, 1992
Appraisal                                       May 30,1992             June 1992
Negotiations                                    November 9, 1992        May 1993
Board Presentation                              May 1993                June 17, 1993
Signing                                         June 28, 1993           July 30, 1993
Effectiveness                                    September 1993         April 21, 1994
Midterm review                                  July 15, 1995           June 10, 1996
Project Completion                              December31,1997         March 31, 1999
Loan Closing                                    June30, 1998            March31, 1999
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$Million)
Appraisalestimate              11.20    31.40    51.00    62.00       63.00     63.60
Actual                          4.45     14.88    29.74    44.30      55.30     63.60
Actual as % of estimate       39.7%    47.4%    58.3%    71.4%       87.8%      100%
Date of final disbursement   September 1999



-13-
Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Feasibility Study         To detenmine the viability/feasibility    Completed   Sub-component achieved
of the LRIS project.                          the set objectives.
Production of Industrial  To facilitate effective pollution  Completed   The study was able to
Data Base and map for     control monitoring and assessment of          provide the actual
Lagos State              the quality of the environment.                location of industries in
the State on a Map,
To provide baseline data in the form          determine effluent
of an industrial data base, maps and          characteristics, discharge
preliminary water and air testing, for        point of industries,
future physical and economic                  receiving water bodies
planning by the State Government.             and their pollution load.
To provide qualitative information on         The study also provided
the various trade effluent discharge          the base line data needed
and receptor points.                          for the productions of an
effluent limitations
guidelines and standards
for the State.
Willingness-to-pay for    To ascertain the level of preparedness  Completed   The result encouraged the
sewage and sanitation     of Resident of Lagos metropolis to            embarkment on other
service in Lagos State.   pay for services.                             studies designed and
construction since the
indicators are that the
project could pay itself in
the long run.
Feasibility studies and   Feasibility studies and detailed design  Completed   Lands and scope of work
detailed design of sewage    of sewage and sanitation for four          to improve sanitation in
and sanitation            designated areas in metropolitan              metropolitan Lagos
Lagos                                         identified. Implemen-
tation is still pending.
Land Related Information    To manage land adniinistration,  Completed   User requirement study
Management System         surveying, planning and taxation              was conducted and four
through a system of automated                 major LRIS applications
mapping, utilities planning design and        developed.
management
Updating and expansion of   To produce a drainage master plan for  Completed   To be used as a basis for
Drainage Development Plan  the Greater Lagos covering about             the development of
for Greater Lagos         35,000 hectares to facilitate deflood-        Drainage Channels hi the
ing, control development in lowland           New areas of Lagos
areas and improve the natural ways            Metropolis.
for navigation and recreation
Restructuring study and   To review LAWMA's activities,     Completed   Some recommendations
private sector participation   financing and privatization options.      of the study were imple-
in LAWMA's activities.                                                  mented under the project.
Billhig and Collection    To study and document existing    Completed   Recommendations not
system study              system and recommend methods of               implemented. State
improvement                                   adopted different
strategies.
Urban Transport Study                                       Completed   Used to help prepare new
project.



-14-
Table 6A: Project Costs
Construction of Surelere drain             3.5      8.0      11.5       1.1      12.4      13 .5
Construction of Lagos mainland drains      3.3      7.7      11.0       2.6      10.3      12.9
Construction of Lagos Island drainage      2.0      4.7       6.7       1.0       8.1       9.1
Construction of Apapa drains               3.6      8.4      12.0       7.5       5.8      13.3
Drainage maintenance                       4.3      4.6       8.9       0.8       3.1       3.9
Transfer station and landfil development   0.5      1.0       1.5       1.2        0        1.2
Vehicles & equipment for LAWMA             0.2      1.4       1.6       0.4       1.2       1.6
Technical Assistance
Construction supervision and maintenance   0.5      1.9       2.4       0.6       3.0       3.6
assistance
Preparation of future projects and training  0.1     1.0      1.1       0.0       1.0       1.0
Sewerage and sanitation studies and design  0.2     4.7       4.9       0.6       2.6       3.2
Laboratory equipment and training          0.1      1.0       1.1       0.3       1.1       1.4
Revenue billing and collection assistance  0.1      1.5       1.6       0.3       0.2       0.5
Conmmunity upgrading technical assistance  0.2      0.8       1.0       0.0       1.4       1.4
Demonstration community upgrading          0.7       1.4      2.1       2.0       0.0       2.0
project
Develop LIS                                0.1      1.8       1.9       0.2       2.2       2.4
Solid waste disposal                       0.1      1.2       1.3       0.1       0.2       0.3
Training                              Included  Included Included       0.1       1.2        1.3
Contingencies                              7.31     7.9      15.2       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total                                     26.8     59.0      85.8      18.8      53.8      72.6
Table 6B: Project Financing
Item                                 Local   Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                costs     costs
IDA                                       6.0    57.0        63.0       9.8      53.8      63 .6
Cofinancing Institutions (JICA)           0.0     2.0         2.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Lagos State Govemment                    20.8      0.0       20.8       9.0       0.0       9.0
Total                                    26.8    59.0        85.8      18.8      53.8      72.6



-15-
Table 7: Economic Costs and Benefits
_____. ..=                                                                              .,
Local      Foreign
-0.95       -2.71           -3.36                                                                                                -3.36
-2.23       -6.34           -8.58                                                                                                 -8.58
-3. 18      -9.04          -12.21                                                                                                -12.21
-311        -8.86          -11.97                                                                                               -11.97
-2.35      -6.69            -9.04                                                                                                 -9.04
0             -1.77       -5.05           -6.82          054                                                                                    -6.82
1                                                        1.44      3.79        0.49         11.33          1.02        2.55       19.17         17.74
2                                                        1.44      3.79        0.49         11.38          1.02        2.55       19.22         17.78
3                                                        1.44      3.79         0.49        11.42          1.02        2.55       19.26         17.S3
4                                                        1.44      3.79         0.49        11.47          1.02        2.55       19.31         17.87
5                                                        1.44      3.79        0.49         11.51          1.02        2.55       19.36         17.92
6                                                        1.44      3.79        0.49         11.56          1.02        2.55       19.40         17.96
7                                                        1.44      3.79         0.49        11.60          1,02        2.55       19.45         18.01
8                                                        1.44      3.79         0.49        11.65          1.02        2.55       19.49         18.06
9                                                        1.44      379          0.49        11.70          102         2.55       19.54         18.10
1 0                                                      1.44       3.79        0.49         11.74         1.02        2.55        19.59        18.15
11                                                       1 44       3.79        0.49         11.79         1.02        2.55        19.64        18.20
12                                                       1.44       3.79        0.49         11.84         1.02        2.55        19.68        18.24
13                                                       1.44       3.79        0.49         11.89         1.02        2.55        19.73        18.29
14                                                       1.44       3.79        0.49         11.93         1.02        2.55       19.78         18.34
15                               _                       1.44       3.79        0.49         11.98         1 02        2.55        19.82        18.39
16                                                       144        3.79        0.49         12.03         1.02        2.55        19.87        18.44
17                                                       1.44       3.79        0.49         12.08         1.02        2.55        19.92        18.48
18                                                       1 44       3.79        0.49         12.13         1.02        2.55       19.97         18.53
1 9                                                      1.44       3.79        0.49         12.17         1.02        2.55       20.02         18.58
20                                                        1.44      3.79        0.49         12 22         1.02        2.55        20.07        18.63
21                                                        1.44      3.79        0 49         12.27         1.02        2.55        20.12         18.68
22                                                       1.44       3.79        0.49         12.32         1.02        2.55        20.16        18.73
23                                                       1.44       3.79        0.49         12.37         1.02        2.55        20.21        18.78
24                                                       1.44       3 79        0.49         12.42         1.02        2.55        20.26        18.83
25                                                       1.44       3.79        0.49         12.47         1.02         2.55       20.31        18.8S
26                                                        1.44      3.79        0.49         12 52         1.02        2.55        20.36        1893
27                                                       1.44       3.79        0 49         12.57         1.02        2.55        20.41        18.98
28                                                       1.44       3.79        0.49         12.62         1.02        2.55        20.46        19.03
IRR=                                                                                                                                              21%



-16-
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
2.02 (b)         3          C                                        The borrower shall open and         Accounts
maintain in dollars a special account   properly
in a commercial banlc              maintained.
3.01 (b)         5          C                                        The borrower shall relend the
proceeds ofthe Credit to Lagos State
Under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
3.01 (c) (i)      9           C        0713111994                      The borrower shall review annually    Satisfactory
with Lagos State all action necessary
to facilitate the carrying out of the
recom-mendations of the reviews.
3.01 (c) (ii)      9                   0713111995                      Borrower to carry out jointly with
the Association and Lagos State a
mid-term review of the project and
take all action necessary to facilitate
the carrying out of the
recommendations ofthe review.
4.01 (a)         1          C                                        Borrower to cause records and       OK
accounts reflecting expenditures to
be maintained.
4.01 (b)         1          C         06130/1995      06/30/1997     Have records and accounts audited   OK
annually by indepen-dent auditors
acceptable to the Association and
furnish the report to the Association
no later than six months after the end
of each year
State            2.01 (c) (i)       5           C                                       Establish and maintain a project    Management unit
Agreement                                                                               management unit to oversee the      was maintained.
carrying out ofthe project
State            2.01 (c) (ii)      5          C                                        Promptly appoint a Project manager    Ok
Agreement                                                                               to head the Project management Unit
PA                 2.01 (a)         5           C                                        Lagos State shall carry outthe     OK
Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative fiancial,
engineering and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed.
The funds, facilities, services,
services and other resources required
for the project.



-17-
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
SW~~~~~~~~~~~ 1V3
2.01 (b) (i)       4          C                                        Lagos State shaU provide in its budget      OK
amounts adequate to cover its
courterpart contributions to the costs of
the project (including costs relating to
.                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~drain mainktenance)
2.01 (b) (ii)      4          C                                        Open a Project Account to be used           OK
exclusively to meet expenditures to be
made under the project
2.01 (b) (iii)     4           C                                       Issue writte instructions to the            OK
Borrower to deduct from amounts due
to Lagos State from the Federation
Account and pay the Project Account
Naira 9,000,000 each month for the
first period of 18 months thereafter at
least Naira 12,000,000 each month for
the following 30 months.
2.01 (c )(i)       4C                                                  Lagos State shall open, and thereafter      OK
maintain a drainage naintenance
account to pay private sector
contractors to carry out annual or
periodic drain maintenance.
2.01 (c ) (ii)     2          CP        1231/1994                      Pay into the Drainage Maintenance      Account
Account (a) at lease Naira 32.2 million,   opened, but
(b) (123195) Naira 40.8 million, (c)  funds deposited
(123196) Naira 56.5 million, (d)      are less than
(123197) Naira 74.4 million and (e)   covenanted.
annually a sufficient amount
2.01 (d)         5           C                                       Lagos State shall maintain the              OK
Environment and Physiml Planning
Office, the Lagos State Waste
Management Authority and the Urban
Renewal Board.
2.01 (e) ( i)      9          C        0713 1/1994                     Lagos State shall review annuaUy the        OK
progress achieved in the execution of
the project
2.01 (e) (ii)      9          C        07/31/1995                      Carny out jointly with the Borrower and     OK
the Association a mid-term review of
the Project and take all action
necessary to carry out the
recommendation of the review.



-18-
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
, .    ..... .... ~ /~ t .
2.01 (t)         7           C       0813 1/1993                    lagos State shall employ a consultant       OK
to prepare a detailed implementation
plan for resettlement
2.01 (g) (i)       7          C                                      Lagos State shall adequately                OK
compensate all the persons affected by
resettlement
2.01 (g) (ii)      7           C                                      Carry out the resettlement of affected    Resettlement
persons under a schedule satisfactory    satssfactonly
to the Borrower and the Association.  completed.
2.05 (b)         6           C                                      Lagos State shall take all measures         OK
necessary to mitigate any adverse
environmnetal impacts of the Project
2.05 (c)         I           C                                      Lagos State shall employ a Project          OK
Financial Controller for the duration
ofthe Project
2.05 (d)         10          C        0S101/1994                    Lagos State shall prepare and furnish       OK
annually to the Association a training
program satisfactory to the
Association.
2.05 (d) (ii)      10          C                                      Carry out training in accord-ance with      OK
the said programn.
2.05 (d) (iii)     10          C                                      Require all trainees to enter into bonds    OK
with Lagos State to serve Lagos State
for a period which shall not be less
than two years after their training.
3.01 (a)         I           C                                      Lagos State shall maintain records and      OK
accounts adequate to reflect
operations resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project.
3.01 (b)          I          C        06/30/1995      06/30/1998    Have records and accounts audited by    Audit generally
independent auditors acceptable to the    received on time
Association and furnish to the       and unqualified.
Association no later than six months
after the end of such year, the report
of such auditors.
Covenant types:                                                                                            Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting           C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from        10. = Project implementation not covered by      CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                             categories 1-9                                CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds                11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other  NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                                     resource allocation
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                                 regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                             13. = Other
8. = Indigenous people



-19-
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Preparationto Appraisal    N/A           N/A      N/A       N/A            13.7         37.0
Appraisal                   N/A          N/A      N/A       N/A           34.7          83.4
Negotiations through Board N/A           N/A       N/A      N/A            13.6         41.2
approval
Supervision                 114.4        89.4      102.5    N/A            140.6        474.1
Completion                  N/A         N/A       N/A       N/A           0.7           4.9
Total                114.4        89.4      102.5    N/A           203.3         640.6
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Through Appraisal         03/92     4          10       C, FA, SE,
Appraisal through Board    N/A       N/A       N/A      N/A
approval
Supervision 1             06/93      1
Supervision 2             10/93     2          3        SE                N/A           N/A
Supervision 3             11/93     4          35       SE, ME, CT, EC    1
Supervision 4             03/94     2          5        SE                N/A           N/A
Supervision 5            06/94      6          21       SE, ME, TS, EC    HS            HS
Supervision 6             11/94     5          24       SE, MF, CT, M4iE  HS            S
Supervision 7             02/95     2          1        SE, ME            N/A           N/A
Supervision 8            06/95      6          10       SE, ME, ME, CT   HS             S
Supervision 9             11/95      5         9        SE, MF, ME, CT   HS             S
Supervision 10           06/96      6          11       SE, ME, ME, CT,  S              S
RS
Supervision 11            11J96     6          8        ME, MF, SE,R      S             S
Supervision 12            03/97     6          11       ME, SE, TY, ME    S             S
Supervision 13            09/97     4                   ME, SE, C          S            N
Supervision 14            03/98      6                  RS, ME, TT, ME,  S              S
SE_                         _
Supervision 15            09/98      3                  SE, ME            S             S
Completion                _                            .
Total
I- Key to Specialzed stsffskils. _  2 - Key to Pefforrance Ratin.         3 - Key to Types of Pobleno;
etc.                                etc.                                  etc.
C = Conultant
CT = Conoeltant Traiing
EC = Economist
FA = Financial Analyst
ME =Municipal Engineer
MF =Municipal Finance
RS Resettlement Specialist
SE = Sanitary Engineer
TS = Training Specialist



-20-
Table 11: Targeted and Achieved outputs
Surelere Drainage Construction  Dredge and line channel,     As planned
construct access road
Lagos mainland drains construction  Augment existing drainage  As planned
improvements, replace existing
culvert crossing and remove
constriction
Lagos Island drainage construction  Improve existing main outfalls,  As planned
improve or replace concrete
channels and culverts
Apapa drains construction       Upgrade, realign and line    As planned
highest priority outfall drains.
Drainage maintenance            Establish (a) cost effective  As planned
maintenance program by
contract; (b) drainage
maintenance account
Urban Renewal demonstration     Improve infrastructure and   As planned.            Successful demonstration
project                         provide public facilities.                          completed.
Transfer station and Landfill   Construct and supply bulk    As planned            Landfill not completed due
development                     carriers and spare parts for                       to change in component.
LAWMA
Technical Assistance
- sewerage and sanitation     Develop strategy, prepare    Completed.            Financing gap created by
studies, phase 1 (JICA)      ! plans; conduct feasibility                        withdrawal of JICA was
- sewerage and sanitation    i studies, develop future designs;                  absorbed by LASG/ Bank
studies, phase 2              supply laboratory equipment.                       Financing.
- resource mobilization       Develop measures for revenue   Completed           Not implemented
billing and collection systems.
- Urban Renewal Board (URB)   Assist URB to review charter    Completed
and plan development strategy
- Development of mapping      Develop mapping ability and    Completed.
ability                       LIS for Lagos
- Assistance to LAWMA         Expand LAWMA MIS and         MIS Completed. Study
conduct engineering studies for  not completed -
future waste disposal sites  Engineering
management study of
LAWMA substituted
- Future projects             Help prepare designs for future                    Designs for future
investment projects          Completed             drainage, urban upgrading,
sewerage and sanitation,
and urban transport project
- training                    Provide training and work                          prepared.
attachments for staff.       As planned
Project management              To be carried out during project  As planned
Construction supervision and    To be carried out during project As planned
maintenance assistance



Table 12: Status of Physical Works
Surulere System 5    CoConstruction of      1235m of 8.5 x 3.25m    1235m of 8.5 x 3.25Cf  N81,958,784.60   N81,958,784.60  20 Mo nths     40 Months
Construction      Phase I (Contract 3)    Rectangular Concrete                                                    +                 +
Channel       ~~~~558m of 4.5 x 3.25m    558m of 4.5 x 3.25nim    ,3,8.0          264395
7.22m of 3.5 x 3.25m   7.22m of 3.5 x 3.25m
4 Culverts               4 Culverts
Surulere System 5    Construction of Concrete I) Dredging of 9.80km  1) Dredging of       N36,718,120;97   N54,852,866.31  24 Months       44 Months
Phase It (Contract 4)   Channels and Dredging  length of earth channel with 13.13km of earth
of earth channels     bottom width varying from  channel with bottom      +                 +
12.50m to 53m and depth  width varying from   US$9,623,802.37  US$10,342,774.62
varying from 2.00 to 3.50m  12.50m to 53.00m and
depth from 1.00m to
3.50m
2) Construction of 1.73km  2) Construction of
length of open rectangular  4.1 Okm length of open
concrete drain with width  rectangular concrete
varying from 2.75m to   drain with width
15.Om and depth from    varying from 2.75m to
1.00m to 2.50m          15.00m and depth from
1.00m to 2.50m
2a. Drainage     Oshodi/Isolo Channels  Construction of Concrete Construction of:     Construction of      N145,898,986.42   N184,41,4174.86 24 Months       40 Months    Completed
(Construction)   (Contract 2)          Channels Culverts and                                                      +                 +
Bridge
1) 2.283km length double  1) 2.35km length     $5,295,161.00     $6,257,173.95
cells rectangular concrete  double cells rectangular
conduit of 3.25m depth    concrete conduit of
2.50m width and 2.50
depth
2) 0.476km of single cell  2) 0.73km length singl
rectangular conduit of 3.0m cell rectangular conduit
width and 3.30m depth    of 2.50m width and
2.50m depth.
3) 82m length of double   3) 0.63km length singl
cell rectangular conduit of  cell rectangular conduit
2.40m width and 3.20m    (2.0 x 2.0)m (WXD)
depth.
4) 902m length single cell 4) 0.26km length open
conduit of 2.0m width and  rectangular concrete
2.20m depth.            drain 2.50 x 1.5Gm.
2 1



COM.7                                                                                 m1
5) 200m  length of        5) 90m length of open
trapezoidal concrete channel rectangular concrete
width varying from 13. 50v  drain of 13. OOm width
to 25 Om and depth of     and 2.50m depth
6) I No. Bridge          6) I No. Bridge
7) 10 Nos. Box Culver2s    7) 10 Nos Box
Culverts
2b. Drainage      Luith/ity Way Chantiel  Construction of        LU6itW Section Length                              S     6As original  NUiS N18444,935.69  24Months   33 Months
Rectangular Channels    615.O0m Size: 5.O x l.4                                +
witli various sizes
1) 5.Om x 1.40m and
2) 2.7m x2.2m.
The Construction of 6   City Way Section Length =US$,656,053.46   US$4,066,053.46
major Culverts         3 85 0.0m S ize: 2.7m x 2.2m
3. Drainage       Lagos Island Priority I   Rectangular Channels    3,247m                 1062m                   N57,344,884.99    N93,905,216.88  31st May 1994             Jan-96
Works                  Sizes between                                                                   +                 +          to June 1996
US$7,735,249.86     $8,054,679.46
Height   Top Width
1.2m&2m   1.lm&2m
1.7m&2m   1.7&4.8m                                      904.1m
2m          4.s4m                                        140m
2.3m      1.7 &4.9m                                     802.5m
2.5m      3.4m                                           280m
3m        8m                                             1325m
3.12m      6.7m                                         127.5m
3448.6m
Conduit Channels with            1185                    1132
0.9m Diameter and top
width between 1.2m and
2.3m
Trapezoidal Channels                                    535.5m
with top width between
10.5m and 15.9m and
height of 2.3m
Gabion Charmels with             768m                    306m
top width between 12m
and 15.9m
Refurbishment                    201m                    196m
22



4 Drainage        Apapa Priority I Works- Construction of Concrete Construction of      Construction of       N173,958,016.47   N306,893, 173 55  24 Months      36 Months
Construction                            Chamnels and Culverts   1) 15.59km length        1) 16.40ktm length of
open/covered concrete drain open/covered concrete     +                 s
with varying width from  drain with varying      $5,856,783.44     $5,821,159.41
0.30m to 4.50m and depth   width from 0.50 to 4.0
from 0. 60m to 3. Om     and depth from 0.60m
to 2.50m
2) 2.20km of chamnels in   2) 2.50km length of
Gabion with varying from   trapezoidal concrete
bottom width 3.0m to 7.0m  channel with bottom
and depth from 1.1 8m to    width varying from
2.30m                    5.Om and 7.Om and
depth from 1.30m to
2.30m
3) 0.99km of concrete    3) 1.30km of concrete
conduit with width varying  conduit with width
from 0.80m to 4.25m and   varying from 0.80m to
depth from 0. 80m to 3.40m  4.Om and depth from
O.SOm to 3.50m
4) 4 5Nos. Box Culverts   4) 45 Nos Box Culverts
along the channels       along the Channel
5. Drainage       Maintenance of System I Maintenance Dredging of Dredging of 8.30km of  Dredging of 8.30m of    N9,139,611.90   N9,131,777.50   24 Months       26 Months
(Maintenance)     Channel (Lot l/P)     existing earth channel   earth channel with bottom   earth channel with
width varying from 20.00 to bottom width varying      +                  +
30.00 and depth of 1.20m.  from 20.00 to 30.00 and   $1,078,819.15  $1,074,618.80
depth of 1.20m
Maintenance of Systems  Maintenance Dredging of Dredging of 7.85km of  Dredging of 8.00km    N7,378,794.00     N5,273,536.25   24 Months       23 Months
2 and 3 (Lot 2/P)     existing earth channel   earth channel          length of earth channel
bottom width varying         +                  +
from 8.00mto 18.00      $519,507.07       $518,554.12
and depth from 1.50m
to 2.00
Maintenance of System 4 Maintenance Dredging of Dredging of 7.09km of  Dredging of 7.09km    N6,616,884.75     N4,823,922.98   24 Months       24 Months
(Lot 3/P)             existing earth channel   earth channel with a bottom  length of earth channel
width of 20.00m and depth  with a bottom width of     +                 +
of 2.Om                  20.00 and depth of      $519,796.83       $498,584.55
2.Gm
Maintenance of System   Maintenance Dredging of Dredging of 6.59km length  Dredging of 6.95km  N5,85 1,722.00  N2,638,742.08   26 Months       24 Months
6C (Lot 4/P)          existing earth channel   of earth              length of earth channel
with the bottom width        +                 A
varying from lO.OOmto    $503,780.76      $500,483.37
18.00m and depth
_____________________________ ____ _1.60m to 2.50m                       . ..
23



System 6F and Ayeke-   Maintenance Dredging of  Same  as Actual         Dredging of 11.64km      N10,650,490.0     N4,976,673.49   24 Months        24 Months
Achakpo (Lot 5/P) Mxiseing earth chal els                               length of eatih channel
with bottom width             +                  +
vaoying ftom 5.of  to    $557,940.75        $540,090.71
24.00 and depth of
1.09m to 2.02m
6. Drainage           Apapa Lot u/1I     Maintenance of Drains in 163.7m3 of excavation and  2,455.50m3 of         N2,054,3916.00     N2,554,316.00   24 Months        24 Months      Additional
Maintenance                               Apapa Local            maintenance of 14km       excavation and                                                                             apoeN500,000 was
Secondary Channels                       Government             tertiary drain             maintenance of 2 Ikm                                                                       approved for the
oftertiary drain                                                                          execution of extra
works
Mainlaand and Surultere   Maintenance of Drains in 12,083m3 of excavation and 12,000m3 of excavation   N6,832,963.20  N6,831,850.03   24 Months     24 Months
Lot 1/2                Mainlaand and SuLlere   maintenance of 48km      and maintenance of
tertiary drain            50km oftertiary drain
Oshodi and Isolo Lot 1/3 Maintenance of drains. in 3,713m3 of excavation and  4,38lm3m3 of       N2,669,379.00     N2,669,379.00   24 Months        24 Months      Additioral works
Oshodi and Isolo Local  ma ftenance ofr25km of    excavation and                                                                            approved for the
Government            tertiary drain             maintenance of 25km                                                                        sum of N500,000
ofotertiary drain
Ikeja and Agege Lot 2/1  Maintenance of drains. in 18,046m3 of excavation and 18,046m3 of excavation   N6,875,375.00  N8,094,200    24 Months       24 Months
Ikeja and Agege Local   maintenance of I Okm of    and maintenance of          +
Government            tertiary drains            lOkm oftertiary drains    $14,725.31
Maintenance of Drains in 11,01 Om3 of excavation  I11,01Om3 of excavation and N4,889,8 15.00      N4,889,8315        24 Months    24 Months
Victoria Island Local    and 60km oftertiary  60km of tertiary drains
Goverment              drains
Mushin Lot 2/3         Maintenance of drains in 24,055m3 of excavation  24,05a5m3 of excavation   N4,405,510.00    N4,432,225.50   24 Months        24 Months
Mushin Local           and maintenance of 44km    and maintenance of
Government             of tertiary drain         44km of tertiary drain
Shomolu Lot3/1         Maintenance of Drains in 43,403m3 of excavation of  32,552m3 of excavation   N7,122,304.00    N6,089,687    24 Months        24 Months      85% ofwork was
Shoinolu Local         S5km of tertiary drain    of 85km of tertiary                                                                       executed
Government                                       drain
Ikoyi Lot 3/2          maintenance of Drains iti 9.3 88m3 excavation and    9.3 88m3 excavation  N3,884,009.70     N3,820,753 .83   24 Months       24 Months
Ikoyi area             maintenance of 80km of    and maintenance of
tertiary drains           80km of tertiary drains
Lgos Island Lot 3/3   Maintenance of Drains in 775 lIm3 of excavation and   775 nIm3 of excavation  N2,843,704.00  N2,837,953 .00   24 Months      24 Months      Additional
Lagos Island           maintenance of 30km of    and maintenance of                                                                        N1,000,000 was
tertiary drain            30km of tertiary drain    N93_616_050                                                     approved
7. LAWMA          Solid Waste             Civil Works            Yard Development Roads   Same as Original          N93,616,050      Same as original  6 Months        14 Months     90% Completion
Conversion of Simpson   Roads
Incinerating Plant site    Drainage
to a Transfer Loading    Water Supply
Station                Electrical System
Vehicle & Equipment
Gate House
24



Solid Waste           Vehiel Ralitation   10 Steyr Tippers            Samne as origmal       USD140,886.70                      6 Months        14 Months
+ N728,000
20 Mammoth Vehicles                            USD62,896.40
+ N13,580,000
6Plat Allis Mech.Sbo                           USD242,700.48
+ N5,991.498
Solid Waste           Procurement of Landfill  Supply of
Equipment
1 No DFCAT Bulldozer and Samne as Original       US$572,877      Samne as Original 6 Months       14 Months     90% Completion
I No. CAT 930 Wheeled                          + N8,813,647.43
Payloader                                        US$131,700
+ Nl ,655,000
S. Commnunity    Badia/Olojowon              ..12 Months                                                                                                         18 Months
Urhan Upgrading                                                                                                  159,405,972      159,199,976.60
Drain                          4660mn                 4841m)
Collector Drain                                       310m )
Roads                          2667mi                  2560)
Street Lights:
Poles anid Accessories           80                     80
Comrnunications:
Telephones                       10                      4
Primary School:                 1 no.                  Ino.
Public Facilities:
Toilets)
Bathrooms)
Washing bays)                   6 nos.                 6 nos.
Health Centre         Construction                     lno.                    Ino.
Solid Waste           Disposal                     S Refuse bins          4 Refuse bins
_    _                       ~~~~~~~~~Water Supply.
9. LASEPA        Supply of Generators    supply                           3                       3          $74,500          4      $74,500     3 Months        3Months
N2,475,000        N2,475,000
Computers             supply                            3                       3              N3,183, 150       N3, 183,150    3 Months       3Months
Laboratory Equipment   Supply                          LIS                     L/S           N4,717,957.25      N4,353,957.25   3 Months       3Months
Chemicals and Glassware Supply                         LiS                     Lis             $22058.64         $22,058.64    3 Months        3 Months
N528,382.08       N328,382.08
Air Monitozing        Supply                           LIS                     L/S              74,500           662,000      3 Months       3Months
Equipmenit                                                                                     N2,892,705        N 1,600,000
Supply of Vehicles    Peugeot 504                        5                      3              $89,354.47          62,000     3 Months        3Moniths
Nl,031,043        Nl,600,000
_                            Ub~~~~~~~~~~~Plity Vehicles       2                      2              N8,471,666          62000       10 MorAhs      .14 Months
25



IRRIS             H/W & S/W               ComputeroH/W           7 work Stations           7 Work Statoiial          $56,113.60        As at Original   6 Months       6 Months
Compeoter Software     7 Printers A   0.5        5 Prnettrrs s  0.5
(Suppliers)
Renovation of lGSSU    Civil Works            Reneovation               Renovation d              N6,61:3,363       As at oiginal   6 Moiiths       I Months
Builliing                                                               Carpeting and Culrtains
Refurbisnenaet of      Equipment              RefMrbishntent oftwo      As per origirusl         lJS$8,875,05       As per original   6 Months      6 Months
Generators             Refurbishment           I OOKVA Gentratos s                                N1,287,780
Supply of I (t00 KVA)  Supplier               Supply of I (I OOKVA)     As per original          TTS$22t256 60      As per original   6 Montlhs     6 Monhs
GeneBator                                     Generator                                           N456,291.20
Maintenance of 3       Mintenance             Maintenance o    up3      As per original           $7,134.14        As per original   3 Years       3 YeMots
Geneipttors                                   Generators                                            N39,000
Supply of Aurnitre     Supplies               Supply of iurnituioefor   As per original           $31,099.62       As per original  6 Months        6 Mktonths
I.ISSU Bm!;ding-                                   NS50,05G.25
Sulpply of Officec     Supplies              |Supply of ofiEce Equipment lAs pCI- origiDal    j     $31,847        As, per origihlal   6 Moniths    6 Months
Ekuipmel1t            ll                                                                           N870,512
Supply of Air         |Supplies              ISupplyOf Air-conlditioner  lAs per original         N31,596.04       As per origiheal  6 Months      |6Months
Conditioning                                                                                       N863,625
Supply offield Vehicles   Supplies            Supply of Field vehicles    As per oiginail         $110.143.99      As per original  16 Months       6 Months
Supply ofField vehicles  Supplies             Supply of field vehicles  As per original           $114,125.84      As per original  6Months         6 Mornths
______-___  _____  ____ ___                                                 ____          N2,339,579.72    ___-.~~-         I        ___                    __. 2____5.7_
26



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS DRAINAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr.2517-UNI)
WORLD BANK MISSION
SEPTEMBER 1998
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A supervision mission for the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project was
undertaken by a team comprising David Henley (Mission Leader), Chris Banes
(Consultant Municipal Engineer), and Engr. J. Metibaiye of the Resident Mission
between August 31-September 8, 1998. The mission was also fortunate in being able to
arrange for a short visit by the Bank's Vice President for Africa, Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib,
the Direstor for Nigeria, Mr. Yaw Ansu, and the Resident Representative, Mr. Trevor
Byer, to the Urban Renewal Demonstration Project on September 17. This Aide
Memoire summarizes the overall review of progress and highlights the main issues
arising, or outstanding, on the project and agreements reached, or reconmnendations
made, to address thenm. A detailed summary of the current financial status of the project
prepared by WBAPD is attached as Annex 1.
2.    The mission met with met with the Peranarent Secretary, MEPP, Dr. A.A.
Omofade; the Head/Project Manager of World Bank Assisted Projects Department,
MEPP-WBAPD, Engr. M.A. Akinsanya and members of his staff, Engr. A.O. Odutola,
Director Water and Sewerage and members of his staff; the General Manager of Lagos
State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), Engr. A.M. Shekoni and members of
his staff; the General Manager of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority
(LAWMA), Sq. Ldr. E.F. Golit and officials of LAWMA; the General Manager of the
Lagos State Urban Renewal Board (LASURB), Mr. A.A. Ogbara and his staff; the
Surveyor General, Mr. O.A. Somoye and officials of the Survey Directorate (SD) of the
Ministry of Lands and Housing; the Director of the Lagos State Valuation Office
(LSVO), Mr. H.A. Allen and officials of LSVO; and consultants and contractors working
for the State Governrent on the Project.
Overall Status
3.    The project has been running for approximately four years and four months (the
Credit became effective on April 21, 1994) and good progress has been made on all major
components. As at the end of August 1998, all of the total Credit amount of US$ 63
million (SDR 44. 5 mnillion) had been committed. Exchange rate (SDR to US dollar)
gains were now estimnated at approximately US$ 0.45 million and the FGN has made a
further US $ 0.43 million approximately available to the project for drainage
expenditures. Thus the total "Credit" funds available were approximately US$ 63.88
million. A total of approximately US$ 57.25 million had been disbursed by the Bank
(89.5% of Credit amount). A total of approximately US$ 5.25 million had been disbursed
by the Bank during the past 5 months.



Project Closing Date
4.    Since the previous mission, at the request of LASG through FGN, the Closing
Date of the Project has been formally extended from June 30, 1998 until March 31, 1999,
primarily, to permit completion of two major drainage contracts which had experienced
unforeseen delays, the LAWMA transfer station and for completion of the Lagos
Sewerage and Sanitation Study and Detailed Design and the Greater Lagos Drainage
Study.
Credit Budget and Commitments
5.    Of a total amount of US$0.8 million, which previous missions had been informed
was to be an additional foreign exchange contribution to the project from FGN, for which
LASG pays the Naira equivalent to FGN, to fund over-commitment of foreign exchange
by WBAPD on drainage contracts, approximately US$425, 000 had been received by
LASG. Of this US$163,000 had been paid into the Special Account as refund of the
excess of 40% of foreign expenditure paid from the SA during 1996. Current budgeting
of the WBAPD assumes that the remainder of the US$0.8 million originally agreed
(approximately US$ 375,000) would not now be forthcoming as LASG has been
informed that it would no longer receive a preferential exchange rate for foreign
exchange purchased from FGN.
6.    Taking into account the above, the fact that exchange rate gains (SDR to dollar)
would not likely be as much as originally anticipated and after analyzing in detail Moines
recently, and still to be, committed under the project it appeared that approximately
US$64.12 million had been committed against a current Credit sum of US$63.88 million.
However these figures assume all contractors, consultants and suppliers are to be paid in
full from the Credit, as originally proposed. There are, however, expenditures for certain
works under the Surelere System 5 Phase 1 contract (Messrs. Folad) that would not be
disbursed against from the Credit due to their unacceptable quality (see para. 14c). The
value of these works, which is still to be precisely determined, would likely mean that a
saving against the currently estimated Credit commitments exceeding US$0.25 million
would be made. In this case the estimated over-commitment of US$0.24 million (see
Annex 1) would not materialize. In any event any over-commitment would need to be
funded from counterpart funds. The mission recommends that; i) this position be
monitored closely by WBAPD and unless the situation changes prior to budget
submissions it ensures that LASG budget sufficient funds to cover such payments in
the 1999 budget; ii) that WBAPD commits no further Credit funds, other than those
discussed during the mission but, on the contrary, seeks savings to avoid any
possible over-commitment and hence requirement for any possible additional
counterpart funds.
2



Counterpart Funds
7.    Under the DCA the LASG was to provide the Naira equivalent (in 1993) of
US$21 million, in 18 monthly contributions of N 9 million and 30 of N 12 million. These
funds have been deducted at source from the amounts due to Lagos State from the
Federation Account. As at the end of August 1998 a total of N 567 million (US$ 10.35
million equivalent) had been paid by LASG made up of 23 payments of N 9 million and
30 payments of N 12 million. As at August 31, 1998 the counterpart funds account had a
balance of approximately N 60.5 million with N 510 million approximately having been
paid out for project expenditures.
Drainage Maintenance Funding
8.   In addition to the counterpart funding requirements above, the LASG paid an
initial N 9 million into the Drain Maintenance Account established under the Project and
N 15 million in 1997 (N 5 million in June, N 5 million in September, N 2.5 million in
October and N 2.5 million in December). The sum of N 12 million provided in the 1998
budget had also now been paid in full. To date therefore a total of N 36 million has been
paid into the Drain Maintenance Account of which N 32.4 million had been paid out to
drain maintenance contractors. The WBAPD now deemed that the remaining N 1.8
million was sufficient to settle outstanding payments to the maintenance contractors,
most of whom had already been paid in full, less retentions.
9.   In addition to the funds provided to the Drain Maintenance Account established
under the Project LASG had provided further funds for drain maintenance for its own
local programs. Despite LASG efforts to provide a significant level of funding for
drainage maintenance, the level of funding is however less than the amount agreed in the
Project Agreement (N 206.9 million) and much less than is required to properly maintain
the extensive, and expanding, network of primary and secondary drains in the State
together with some funding of tertiary drain maintenance which the LASG carries out due
to the inability of LGAs to fulfill their responsibilities for such systems. The future
sustainability of drain maintenance in the State thus continues to give cause for concern.
The mission urges LASG to continue to support (and increase) the level of funding
for drain maintenance to build on the gains, however limited, that have been made
under the Project. Consideration of a drainage component in any possible future
World Bank-supported Project would involve close scrutiny of LASG's continuing
efforts, or otherwise, beyond LDSP to ensure sustainability of the drainage systems
of Lagos.
Project Management and Quarterly Reporting
10.   The quarterly report covering the period April-June 1998, quarter -no.2/98 was
given to the mission. A summary of the financial position of the project as at August
31,1998 was prepared by the WBAPD Financial section during the mission and is
summarized in Annex 1.
3



11.   The following technical reports and bid documents have been prepared since the
previous mission and were submitted to the mission. Comments, where deemed
necessary, are given in the relevant sections of this Aide Memoire:
- Updating and Expansion of the Greater Lagos Drainage Study - Inception report;
- Septage Treatment Facilities Lands report;
- Ikeja Sewerage District bid documents.
Audits
12.   The audit report on the 1997 project accounts has been submitted to the Bank
which has given its comments. These are to be discussed at a meeting with the Bank's
local Financial Analyst, the Auditors and WBAPD Financial Section staff within the next
week.
Status of Components and Current Issues and Recommendations
a) Drainage
13.   The mission visited the sites of five of the six major drainage contracts with
WBAPD staff, consultants and contractors . Progress on the primary drainage contracts is
as follows: Lagos Island (Messrs. Sakamori) 100% completed; Apapa (Messrs. DTV)
100% completed; Mainland LUTH/City Way (Messrs. Nahman) 100% completed;
Mainland/Oshodi/Isolo (Messrs. DTV) 90% completed; Surelere System 5 Phase 1
(Messrs. Folad ) 65% completed and Surelere System 5 Phase II (Messrs. Eldorado) 95%
completed.
14.  In the contracts not yet completed the following observations were made:
(a) In Oshodi, Messrs. DTV are progressing well on the bridge crossing the Expressway,
which was delayed because of redesign, necessitated by identification of poor soils, and
on the culvert crossing the railway, delayed whilst waiting for Nigerian Railways
approval. The contract is expected to be completed before December 31, 1998.
(b) In Surelere System 5 Phase 2, Messrs. Eldorado has almost finished the additional
concrete lining at Badia. The alignment of the channel in a number of places is poor but
the works are being carried out in a very difficult swamp area and the contractor has, in
places, altered alignments to avoid affecting any shelters adjacent to the channel.
Conditions for those living in the area have greatly improved as a result of the drainage
works.
(c) In Surelere System 5 Phase 1, Messrs. Folad has attempted to rectify some areas of
sub-standard work which lead the previous mission to recommend the Bank to suspend
disbursements against this contract. In this case the mission is prepared to recommend
the Bank to disburse against the contract subject to the following conditions:
4



(i) excepting for expenditures on those areas where the mission still considers work
of poor quality (e.g. for the length of channel where concrete ties have been
constructed in an attemapt to prevent collapse of channel walls);
(ii) providing an in-situ concrete capping beam, as proposed earlier, is co:structed
along both sides of about 2 km. of channel constructed with precast sections and
which was found unacceptable during the previous mission, and;
(iii) providing the quality of work still to be carried out is found acceptable as
determined by the WBAPD and the consultants advising on supervision.
15.   The mission also visited the area of System 4 under the Expressway adjacent to
the National Theater. Here the existing trapezoidal channel has an invert higher than
upstream drainage works which results in flooding and desilting of upstream works (e.g.
City Way) carried out under the project. The WBAPD is seeking to install a parallel
concrete channel with a lower invert which will act as the dry weather channel, allowing
the trapezoidal channel to act as a storm overflow, which should largely relieve the
upstream problems. Although there are insufficient funds left under the Credit to
fund this work the mission urges the LASG/WBAPD to carry out the works as soon
as possible with the Project's remaining counterpart funds.
b) Drainage Maintenance
16.   Primary, secondary and tertiary drainage maintenance contracts are now
completed (contract amounts fully utilized), although drains, particularly the many
tertiary drains across the city, were still in critical need of maintenance, which is the
responsibility of local government. This issue, and possible initiatives to address it have
been discussed in previous Aides-Memoire. At present the consensus of the N fBAPD and
mission is that maintenance under contract is considerably more cost effective than by
direct labor and the mission encourages MEPP to continue with this initiative. The
mission looks forward to the analysis and recommendations to be made with rega.d to
drain maintenance in the Study for Updating and Expansion of the Drainage
Development Plan for Greater Lagos presently underway (see below).
c) Updating and Expansion of Drainage Development Plan for Greater Lagos
17.   The study appears to be progressing satisfactorily although it has been found that
the original study area required significant expansion if all drainage requirements in the
built up areas of Greater Lagos were to be covered. With regard to the expansion of 'the
original area and the time and cost implications for the consultants, the WBAPD issued a
letter to the Bank via the mission requesting its no objection to increasing thle scope and
cost of the consultants contract to cover this. The mission agreed that it would ensure
the Bank consider the request and issue an appropriate "no objection" by
September 10th, 1998.
18.   The mission received the Inception Report of the Consultants dated July 1998.
The mission reviewed the report which it considers generally satisfactory. However it has
the following comments. It was agreed that WBAPD would pass the comments on to
5



the consultants for consideration/incorporation in their work program and
reporting. The comments are primarily concerned with the drain maintenance analysis to
be carried out as included in the TOR. As part of their study findings it would be useful,
and is suggested, that the consultants:
*  review the bid documentation used for drain maintenance contracts under the Project
and propose improvements (e.g. more flexible "schedule of rates/term" contracts
would seem more appropriate then the standard civil works contract type used which
lead to full utilization of contract amounts before drainage lengths included were fully
maintained );
*  spend less time in assessing the capacity of the private sector which is already fairly
well-known following the experience gleaned under the project;
* assess funding options and realistic possibilities for funding drain maintenance both
for primary and secondary drains by LASG and tertiary drains by LGAs or possibly
LASG;
*  identify opportunities and constraints of current legislation and responsibilities for
drain maintenance and make suggestions on realistic cost recovery mechanisms;
*  suggest possibilities for greater involvement of the private sector and of communities
in drain maintenance and define necessary modalities.
d) Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAVWMA) Component
19.   Considerable progress had been made since the previous mission on moving the
solid waste component forward. The mission was particularly pleased with progress on
the vehicle rehabilitation initiative, using a private contractor, and in the physical
progress in converting the old (never commissioned) Simpson Street Incinerator into a
transfer station. A summary of progress on the LAWMA components is as follows.
a) The contract for the supply of solid waste equipment for landfill operations
(payloader and bulldozer) had not yet been completed. However it was understood from
the supplier that the payloader had arrived at port and should be with LAWMA within a
maximum of two weeks and the bulldozer should arrive Lagos by 20th September.
b) Under the contract for vehicle rehabilitation and maintenance it was understood th,at of
the 30 trucks to be rehabilitated 25 had been completed and were being used by LAWMA
and the remaining 5 would be delivered by early October. However the 6 mechanical
loaders included for rehabilitation under the contract had proved to be beyond economical
repair and the mission agreed in principle to the procurement of two new mechanical
loaders provided the original budgeted amount for rehabilitation of the 6 was not
exceeded.
c) The contract for re-establishing a MIS at LAWMA. was said to be 60% complete and
the computers and server were shortly to be installed. All software had been developed.
6



d) The construction of a transfer station at the Simpson Street Incinerator Site was about
85% complete. One bulk carrier vehicle had already been delivered and the second would
be delivered within two weeks. The conversion of two other prime movers to haul trailers
was underway as was fabrication of the trailers. The mission visited the transfer station
and was pleased with the progress and quality of works which should be completed by
early October.
20.   LAWMA was said now to have only 72 collection vehicles operational (120
vehicles in March 1998) and this figure had dropped to 33 in May because, according to
LAWMA, of funding constraints. Currently LAWMA was supposed to receive N 8
million for providing service to LGAs (paid by LASG from LGA allocations) but rarely
received the maximum; N2 million from LASG for services (streetsweeping) rendered to
LASG and it generated about N 5 million internally (primarily commercial and industrial
service). Thus monthly revenue was approximately N 25 million. However LAWMA's
costs were, with all refurbished vehicles operating likely to be in the order of
N 33 million, a shortfall of N 18 million. LAWMA was presently discussing with LASG
how this shortfall was to be funded.
e) Urban Upgrading Component
21.   The mission visited the site of the demonstration project in Badia for which the
contract for infrastructure improvement and public facilities provision was now
approximately 90% complete. The mission was pleased to learn that the water supply to
the facilities had now been provided and underground cabling to streetlights had proved
possible and was completed. The dramatic improvement to the area since completion of
the roads and drains has also resulted in much activity by the residents themselves in
improving their dwellings. The clinic is completed, and is shortly to be handed over to the
LGA for the area, as is the primary school which is to be handed over to the Primary
Education Board. The public washing and toilet facilities are to operated by private
individuals under agreement to LASURB who would charge the operators a nominal rent
and monitor the operation and maintenance of the facilities. LASURB was shortly to
receive offers from such operators. The operators appointed are to charge user fees and be
responsible for payment of water and electricity bills and for operation and minor
maintenance of the facilities under an operating agreement with LASURB. Whereas the
mission was pleased with the effects created by the demonstration project, as are the local
residents in the area based on a recent newspaper report, there are defects in the works
that require to be addressed. These were outlined to LASURB/WBAPD construction
supervisors and the contractors and are:
*  repairing of bituminous surfacing where it had been damaged by other utilities or
poorly surfaced by the contractor;
*  cutting of slots in top of concrete drains where proud of road surface to pernit
drainage of the roads;
*  completing of minor works to public facilities where workmanship was, in places, of
poor quality;
7



* laying of shingle or concrete paving to the yards of the primary school and of the
health center to avoid the areas becoming waterlogged in times of heavy rains;
* installing of remaining lanterns to streetlights and the energizing of the system.
The mission recommends LASURB/WBAPD ensure that defects are properly and
speedily addressed by the contractors and works are subsequently maintained by
the relevant bodies. The inclusion of an expanded upgrading component in any
possible future Bank-supported project for Lagos would involve close scrutiny of
the infrastructure provided in the demonstration project and efforts made by LASG
to ensure its sustainability.
f) Land Information System.
22.   The mission met with the Survey Directorate staff in the new LISSU building
renovated under the project and now occupied and in use. It was pleased to learn that
LISSU had provided maps to the consultants carrying out the Greater Lagos Drainage
Study but was disappointed to find that:
* on arrival there was no power and the standby generator was not, initially, operating
because of lack of fuel and/or a flat battery;
* the computer software had still not been debugged by the consultants, the position as
at the time of the March mission;
* apparent network problems were affecting communications between computers and
the large map printer such that a map requested could not be printed;
* no maintenance agreement with a local contractor to maintain the system was yet
arranged.
* little progress appeared to have been made in expanding the original demonstration
area or on inputting utility information (e.g. LSWC water mains information) within
the pilot area.
23.   The mission stressed the need for the above issues to be addressed urgently if the
LRIS was to be sustained and was to prove a useful tool for other Directorates as well as
generating some revenues for LASG.
g) Sewerage and Sanitation
24.   Progress on three of the four sub-components of the sewerage and sanitation
component of the project has been completed. The mission visited the LASEPA
laboratory to inspect the equipment provided under the project, some of which was, being
used although some was still requiring calibration. The mission recommended
LASEPA to arrange calibration by the suppliers or, failing this, contact Lagos
University for assistance.
25.   Consultants (Messrs. Haskoning) working on the main sewerage study had
recently requested an extension to enable them to complete bid documents for wor]ks in
the four sewerage districts studied. This request was submitted to the mission for review.
8



The requirement for the extension was said to be primarily due to the delay in getting
clearance for the land for sites for discharge stations and septage treatment facilities. A
team had recently been formed to agree sites and to plan the next steps and it had recently
produced a report on the sites required. The mission considered this a very positive step
initiated by the Sewerage Department. The Department had also initiated the drafting of
an Edict which would set up a Sewage Board the establishment of which would be an
attempt to move provision of sewerage/sewage treatment towards more private sector
involvement. A copy of the Edict was given to the mission for information.
26.   The mission was apprised of the Department's current efforts under its own
auspices to invite proposals for the construction of a septage treatment facility in the Ikeja
District (to be incorporated in the plan for the district prepared by Messrs. Haskoning).
The department hoped to get a detailed bid in from a private investor to construct and
operate the facility in the near future. It was agreed that the Bank would be kept
informed of progress on this initiative.
27.   The consultants had prepared bid documents for one sewerage district to date
which the mission was given sight of. The draft documents appeared generally to be in
order although were based on standard FIDIC documentation (as called for in the TOR)
which implied that works would be carried out in the traditional manner of client and
civil works contractor. This may be the case but it was LASG's intention to try to attract
private investors in a BOO or BOOT arrangement in which case the documentation might
require modification. This being so, the mission cautioned the Departmnent against
requiring the consultant to produce numerous copies of document packages of which
there are some 20 packages each consisting of 5 or more volumes. The total approximate
estimate of cost of the proposed works in the four districts was US$ 100 million at
today's costs. It was likely that packages, and volumes within them, would need
amendment in any event before any tendering process was proceeded with as at this stage
no financing for the proposals was available or in sight. With regard to possible
financing the mission urged LASG to apprise other donors of the proposals
prepared. Concerning proposed designs, the mission recommends that the
consultants obtain specialist advice on whether designs include adequate sewer
ventilation and protection of concrete pipes against corrosion.
28.   The consultants had prepared possible options for implementation including cost
recovery arrangements which were critical to the success and sustainability of any option.
The mission urges the LASG to give serious consideration to the need for generating
and earmarking funds for sewerage/sanitation in Lagos as well as to how the private
sector may be encouraged to participate in both financing of capital costs and in
system management, operation and maintenance. Efforts by the LASG in this
direction would be necessary if the Bank was to consider any future involvement in
a major program to implement a sewerage and sanitation program for Lagos.
9



g) Revenue Generation
29.   The mission visited LSVO and witnessed the team of consultants carrying out the
valuation data entry exercise for the two pilot LGAs (Ikeja and Lagos Island). A total of
16 work-stations were set up and consultant staff were working in shifts in an effort to
complete data entry such that bills for tenement rates could be generated and delivered by
January 1999. The consultants (Messrs. Multiconsult) contract had been extended from
June 30, 1998 until December 31, 1998 to achieve this. Whilst this progress was pleasing
the mission was disappointed that none of the actions agreed during the previous mission
appeared to have been completed namely;
* transfer of one senior staff from the State Computer Center to the LSVO;
* recruitment of counterpart computer staff;
* allocation of additional funds for efficient LSVO functioning;
* entering into of maintenance contracts to ensure the hardware is maintained as initial
warranty periods expire.
30.   The mission was informed that LSVO hoped to engage a number of the present
consultants temporary staff who were currently entering data although providing salary
and terms and conditions packages sufficiently attractive to such staff may be difficult.
The mission stressed the need for LASG/ILSVO to:
(a) engage adequate numbers of counterpart staff as soon as possible;
(b) arrange a hardware (and software) maintenance contract as soon as possible;
(c) ensure adequate funding for LSVO is included in the 1999 budget.
These actions are important if the hard-won gains made to date at LSVO were not soon to
be lost.
h) Training
31.   This component is substantially complete and remaining budget committed. The
remaining long term trainees are about to complete their courses and return to Lagos and
only short term procurement courses for two engineering staff and a public-private
partnership course to be attended by the Director of the Sewerage Department and the
Project Manager are to embarked upon overseas. Local short terms courses for secretaries'
and accounts staff have been agreed and are also shortly to be embarked upon. No further
training course are to be considered under the project as the budget for the training
component of the Project is now exhausted.
Project Finalization
32.   Engr. Metibaiye and consultant Wole Komalafe will commence preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the project during October 1998 and would
have a draft ready during May 1998. MEPP is required under the Credit to contribute its
own evaluation of the project, including its own and the Bank's performance. This shouldL
not exceed ten pages, or be accompanied by a ten page summary if longer, and should
also be available by end of May. MEPP should also complete evaluation of the real
10



benefits of the project, including areas where flooding has been eliminated and increased
land values, reduced transport and road maintenance costs (for comparison with the
economic evaluation in the SAR). A final short mission will be held in March/April 1999
to conclude the project and to complete the operational plan as required for the ICR.
Financing of Incomplete Components
33.   Several items which might normally be financed by extension of contracts under
the project will not be financed due to full commitment of the Credit. These include the
dry weather channel for System 4 near the National Theater (see para. 15), full duration of
LAWMA equipment maintenance contracts, and furnishing of community facilities in
Badia under the LASURB component. MEPP should consider extending the present
arrangement of deduction of counterpart funds at source beyond the end of 1998 to permit
these needs to be financed under the project.
David Henley, Water and Urban Group 2, (AFTU2), World Bank.
Lagos September 8, 1998
11



12



BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
1.0    DRAINAGE
Under the LDSP, the following drainage channels were constructed, to complete the initial
investment in the Lagos Solid Waste and Stormwater. These were:
(i)    Lagos Island Priority I Works
(ii)    Apapa Priority I Works
(iii)   Luth/City Way Channel
(iv)   Oshodi/Isolo Drainage Channel
M     Surulere System 5 Phase I drainage channel
(vi)   Surulere System 5 Phase 11 drainage channel
In addition the maintenance/cleaning of the Primary channels and the Secondary/tertiary drains
(on Local Government basis) was carried out.
The Drainage Master Plan for Greater Lagos was also completed. The Drainage Department will
continue with the maintenance of Drainage channels following the format already in use in the LSDP. The
Direct Labour Operations would also compliment this effort with the cleaning of the tertiary Drains. In
addition the department has rehabilitated its amphibious dredger and other equipment to enhance the
Direct Labour Operations on the primary channel.
Future Operation
With the completion of the Greater Lagos Master Plan, the Department intends to follow the
recommendations of the report and commence with the construction of the identified drainage system in
order of priority.
The master plan would also be used to monitor the right of way of Natural water way, control
encroachment on drainage alignments etc. Computerization of the department (GIS) for linkage with LRIS
information is paramount on the desired improvement and monitoring of the Direct Labour Operations.
2.0    SOLIDWASTE (LAWMA)
As part of the proceeds of the LDSP, LAWMA was able to Rehabilitate some of its vehicles (20
Iveco Trucks, 10 Styre Tippers and 6 Fiats -allio Pay Loaders), constructed a Transfer Loading Station at
Simpson to enhance the waste collection and turn around time of cqllection vehicles from Lagos Island,
Etti-Osaa and Ibeju Lekki, and procured equipment for the Olusosun Sanitary Landfill and established
Management Information System (MIS) data base to evaluate and/enhance operational performance.
With the rehabilitation of the vehicles, LAWMA has improved on the waste collection and for the
first time the Olusosun Landfill Site is being operated as a true sanitary landfill.
In order to sustain the success of these achievements and maintenance of the plants and vehicles
LAWMA is expanding its internally generated revenue.
The Authority intends to increase its industrial clients form 815 to 1,500 there by increasing the
monthly revenue from N6.Om to N 10. Om. Tariff paid by these clients are to be reviewed by about 40%.



-2-
Recovery of outstanding debts owed LAWMA for services rendered amounting to about N45m
will be vigorously pursued.
It is hoped that with introduction of Private Sector Participation (PSP) on waste collection, it will
reduce the burden on LAWMA on domestic waste collection/discharge and enhance their revenue by
charging user fees for the Landfill services. The amount to be charged is yet to be concluded , but likely
charges would be based on the volume or weight of waste being disposed by the PSP agents.
With the newly procured bulldozer under the current LDSP, the Authority has commenced
sanitary landfill operations with the use of cover materials at the end of the day's operation. Underground
water in the area is being monitored through wells dug around the site. As a follow-up to World Bank
investment, the State Government has given LAWMA an additional N250m for the mainternance of
vehicles. The State Government has also increased LAWMA's subvention from N2m to N [Om monthly.
Future Operations
Following the success of the Olusosun Landfill, LAWMA proposes to construct and develop
more sanitary Landfills, and embark on waste to wealth operations at the landfill to improve the revenue
base of the organisation such as recycling and composting. There is need to improve the MIS and replace
the old vehicles, plants and equipment.
3.0    URBAN UPGRADING
The Badia-Olojowon Demonstration Project was implemented as part of the LSDP component.
Facilities needed within the community i.e., school, health centre, public utilities, road etc. were
constructed to upgrade the living standards of the people.
Upon completion, the Health Centre and school were fully equipped by the State Government for
effective utilisation and handed over to the Health Deparnment in the Apapa Local Governm ent, and
Primary School Education Board who would be responsible for operation and maintaining the two
facilities.
The Local Government are also responsible for the maintenance of the drains and roads.
The public facilities were handed over to the CDA and fees paid by members of the Community
will be used to maintain the facilities.
Charges are as follows, W.C. / squatting plate N5.00 per use, shower N5. 00 per use, laundry N 1.
00 per cloth and water fountain N 1. 00 per bucket. Expected revenue from these charges is estimated at
about N36,000.00 per week. This is to be collected by the CDA and used for the payment of staff salaries
and maintenance of the facilities.
In additional a Technical Monitoring group made up of representatives of the CDA, Urban
Renewal Board and other Government agencies involved in the maintenance of facilities has been
established to continuously monitor of the project.



-3-
Future Operations
With the lessons learnt and success recorded in the Badia-Olojowon Demonstration Project, the
Boards intend to carry out similar projects in Makoko, Ajegunle and Ojo Extension with direct/indirect
ffinding. Establishment of a Management Information System database to assist the Monitoring Group
and continuos training of staff to enhance productivity.
4.0    SANITATION
4.1    SEWAGE
The primary objective of the component generally is to improve the sewerage systems in Lagos
Metropolis through the construction of sewage network and sewerage system within four priority areas
namely, Ikeja, Apapa, Lagos Island, and Ikoyi, Victoria - Island, Lekki as identified/recommended in the
Lagos Sewerage and Sanitation Works -Phase 11 Feasibility Studies and Detailed Design.
To complement the Sewerage study, the Willingness to pay Studies and Inventory/ Performance
Evaluation of existing Sewage Plants and were conducted. With regards to the above gains and success,
arrangement have been instituted to acquire sufficient land space for the execution/construction of the
designed sewage network. In addition, construction of septage treatment plants in two strategic locations
are been considered as a stopgap between septic tank and full blown water treatment system and as a form
of encouraging private participation. Arrangements are on stream presently towards ensuring continuous
usage by Vacuum Truck Operators. The requisite laws have been concluded, go also the baiit public
enlightenment campaigns; these would ensure the necessary enabling Environment-User fee of between
N1,500 and N3,500 will be charged per trip depending on the size of the vehicle.
Future Operation
Arrangement is on stream presently towards ensuring continuous usage by Vacuum Truck
Operators. The requisite laws have also been concluded as well as the all the necessary campaign to
sensitise the public for acceptance.
Since the completion of the feasibility studies and Detailed designs, while realising the funds
requirement for the implementation of this project, implementation strategies for the execution of the
designs had been proposed either through external financing directly or indirectly, i.e., Private Sector
Participation (PSP) or Concession.
4.2    LASEPA
The main objective of this component was the production of Industrial Database and maps, and
the procurement of Laboratory equipment, glassware and chemicals. Included on the industrial data map
was identification of trade effluent points, location of industries, pollution load of rivers and streams and
the    constituent of trade effluent points, location of industries, pollution load of rivers and streams and
the constituent of trade effluent.
Amongst the equipment procured are the Gas Liquid Chromatogram (GLC) monitoring
equipment, Atomic Absorption spectrometer and incubators. A maintenance programme has also been
drawn up to keep the equipment in good condition. Cost of maintenance is presently being covered from
the budgetary allocation accruing from the State Environmental fees for laboratory services and levies.



-4-
For failing to comply with the provisions in the State Environmental Edict. a fine of N I .Om is
usually charged from the companies and for individuals a fine of N500, 000.00 is charged. In addition a
fine of N2Q00, cG0.00 is chaiged for obstructing the Agency an access to perform its duty.
With `ie use of the industrial data map, the Agency has been able to monitor and enforce effluent
limitation, standards and guidelines. The State Government has also developed an elaborate monitoring
programme fmr the, following:
1. Maajor and miniwater works: The 13 mini and major water works are monitored 3 times
VekI'v for phvsical, chemical, biochemical, microbiological etc paramneters
2. Rivers and streams: The receiving waters are sampled 3 times weekly.
3. Landfill sites - The dumpsites being the major source of groundwater pollution are sampled
tivice wveekly
4. Ai` aoid noie pollution monitoni+ Thene are asgesged during the Industrial assessmentvislts
tnmeSe a wveek.
In addition to the above the general state of the environment is assessed by regularly visiting the 20 local
Futui),re Operations
irn order to eft4sctveIy, monitor the State of Environment, the Agency plans to put in place zonal
offices. orocrce more advance and sensitive Laboratory equipment and train its staff on current
technologaiesiecuiloment.
5.0 Land Related Iiformation System (LRIS)
The '(LTS' is a Comrlputer based system for handling spatial information. The concept of LRIS
have been identified as a response to user needs, principally on the problems of data sharing.
The ob ectives are to manage land administration, surveying, planning and taxation. They have a
system of automated mapping and infrastructure and utlities planning, design and management'. The
maintenance and sustainability has commenced on data collection for remaining portion of the 40sq. kin.
of the LRS. Pilot project area beyond. The purpose of this exercise is for LISSU to support the Land UJse
and Allocation Committee and Land Services Directorate in generating demand notices for respective
ground rents -7-fr the year 2000 and beyond.
Estimated revenue fI-om the sale of analogue and digital data to users is in the region of N 1 Om per
annum. In addition, the State Government in the recent years has made budgetary provisions for currert
and capital expenditures fort,he sustenance of the system.
Iut),inu,e Operations
The Map-data base on the orthophoto map covering about 500 sq. km. ((metropolitan Lagos)
made from V7 978/88 aerial photographs does not cover the entire Lagos State and it outdated (11/12 years
old). Hence fhere Xs need for the State Government to produce current aerial photographs of the entire
State and new Ortho photo maps.



-5-
In the light of the above, it would be necessary to acquire the digital image processing equipment
to produce ortho photo maps and imagery maps. This equipment include:
1. pcl. software (ortho engine)
2. High resolution scanner (2000 dpi)
3. Vector/raster conversion software.
4. Workstation with two monitors- 30 Giga Bytes of HD and 200 MB Ram.
Immediate upgrading of the existing Hardware/software with additional computers and
accessories are necessary.
In order to consolidate the above, wide Area Networking is needed to allow the secondary user
access to the information at LISSU.
Training and Re-training is highly essential and requires a sizeable number of specialist with
broad experience and knowledge for both long and short terms period.
The LRIS as established have a system of automated mapping and infrastructure and utilities
planning, design and management. The State Government has first concluded a programme of
maintaining the system for effect yield especially on the data collection for the remaining portion of the
4Osq.km (Pilot Scheme) of the LRIS which is geared towards the generations of the required demand
notices for land charges.
6.0    LAGOS STATE VALUATION OFFICE
LSVO, was identified as a major component on revenue generation in the state, hence, it was
provided for in the Lagos Drainage Sanitation Project (CR 2517 UNI).
Its primary functions is to computerize Lagos State Valuation Office. The office has been fully
furnished and now functional with the procurement of compliments such as vehicles and generator. This
has facilitated in no small measure the success being recorded on the data capture especially for the 2
Local Governments on Pilot Scheme.
With these gains, the LSVO, has the plan to maintain and sustain the equipment, computers and
the accessories through continuous training and provision of adequate funding in budgetary allocation,
especially from its allocation o0n1 the Tenement rates. The State is also disposed to the provision of funds
for the software license yearly renewal annually.
Future Operation
Extension of computerization to the remaining 18 Local Government.






44<1           Z~~~~~BIRN   EBBI,1                                              -  t      >                                                    i                             \
r    IS
MAIDUGURI
DAMkATU RUT
KA'D  J NIA\
Kamp       )                                       (_J -A  UN      iI    II                                                             /'             '
Ko r                                      --,  ,,,.  .                                                                                , KUNA  .,iiU ! - --, J
/ t  g  <1tf  14   3BAUCHI              /
2 t tlult'vi-RJ l Xt 20/   K. _    -J   r  _
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MINNA                                                                                             A ,St <)-A-J 0 .\|fv\i&W1k
KVA&A          '                     AUJA
---'- 'I ' GP TEAU                                                                JALI-N \GO
( ILORIN                           FC) Ar.JA
CYSHOGBO7--~ -1
AKURE  K    GI                               '~~~~~~~~~'~~~~ET,  ~~TA P.A BA                    NIGERIA
I t BADAN 3~  0 - S UJ N X            -                  ,         aMAKURDI                                                1A\, t    s < t          IEI
'f )>)  ( AKURE   BX                                            E BENUEJ E                                     ADMINISTRATIVE
ABEOKUT                        NDO    EDO                                                                                                      DIVISIONS
-  _ G      (Ll           g     /J|N,dt  ENU U
BR I ~4   ( B,jN 3  (            ENUGU                           The boundanes, colors,
LAGOS                            IT'Y                                                             denominations and  any '                    STATE BOUNDARIES
other information shown
on this map do not
MALlU9    NIGER                                                             MUAH                           imply, on  the part of                     STATE CAPITALS
-_   NIGER                                               ERRIJD S  EA M    CROSS                 The World  Bank Group,
DU",                                          F                                            _ CHAT    RIVER   any judgment on the legal
FASO                               ~~~~~~~~DELTA                                                stotaIs of otsy territory,                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
NIGERIA ~~~~~~~~~~                                 CALABAJ( ~~~~~~~~~or any endorsement
XsAOf ;)2 NIGERIAX  -)                                             ByA                              or acceptance of stich                     MAJOR RIVERS
CETRAL AFRICAN                               e$boundaries.
CRECN                                                                                                                          -      INTERNATIONAL 
RO  FDTO1>LL -55XG ul <r W 4   [l>fv   l   IL:MET   m 0   1BOUNDARIES  xl
G I of~ ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
rMNlIE       TtC      A Re                                                                                                                                                   .
'0    ASIAATcSIESA GATON                 Gu,inea                                                             MILES l   A0  ITD  STAl0  S
Al  C                                                       T                                                                               Alas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



