         The Inspection Panel

         Report and Recommendation
                     on
            Request for Inspection


Nigeria: Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project
           (Credit No. 2517-UNI)

                                           Table of Contents


 1. Introduction........................................................................................................ 3

 2. The Project.......................................................................................................... 3
   Project Benefits...........................................................................................................................4
   Environmental Impact ................................................................................................................4
   Compensation and Resettlement.................................................................................................5

 3. The Credit........................................................................................................... 5

 4. The Basis of This Report ................................................................................... 6

 5. The Request for Inspection ............................................................................... 6
   Alleged Policy Violations ...........................................................................................................7

 6. The IDA Management's Response ................................................................... 8

 7. Eligibility of the Request ................................................................................. 13

 8. Panel's Assessment and Evaluation of the Claims of the Request for
    Inspection.......................................................................................................... 13

 9. Specific Allegations .......................................................................................... 15

10. Panel's Evaluation of the Substance of the Request for Inspection............ 15

11. Recommendation.............................................................................................. 17

 Annex 1: Request for Inspection

 Annex 2: Bank Management Response to Request




                                                                 2

                                          1. Introduction

       1.        On June 16, 1998, the Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC) filed
       a Request for Inspection (the Request)1 on behalf of the Center and that of individuals,
       families, and community development associations in Lagos (the Requesters) who claim
       that they have been directly affected and harmed by the IDA-financed Lagos Drainage
       and Sanitation Project (Credit No. 2517-UN1). The Panel received the Request on June
       18, 1998.

       2.        On June 26, 1998, the Panel notified the Executive Directors and the President of
       the International Development Association (IDA) of the receipt of the Request (meaning
       Registration under the Panel's Operating Procedures2).

       3.        In its brief, the Requesters state that the IDA-financed project in the slum
       communities in Ijora Badia and Ijora Oloye has resulted in forced eviction of some 2,000
       persons who have lost their homes and businesses, while thousands of others face an
       imminent threat of eviction. The Requesters further allege that the Bank has done harm
       to the affected people because of its failure to follow its own policies and procedures
       applicable to this Project, and make reference to a series alleged violations of IDA's
       Operational Directives, Operational Policies, and Articles of Agreement.

       4.        On July 30, 1998, the Panel received IDA Management's Response (the
       Response) to the Request (Annex 2 to this Report). In short, Management claims that it
       has complied with all relevant policies and procedures in the design and implementation
       of the project.


                                           2. The Project

       5.        The principal objective of the Project is to improve the storm-water drainage
       system in parts of Lagos which suffer from regular inundation from heavy rains. The
       Project will also support initial attempts in the upgrading of other urban services such as
       improvement of solid waste management and waste-water disposal.

       6.        The major investment costs of the Project have been directed towards the
       improvement of storm-water drainage facilities for Lagos mainland, Lagos Island and
       Apapa, and a maintenance program for the existing drains. There are five components to
       the program, of which two that concern this Request for Inspection: (a) the upgrading,
       realigning and the lining of the highest priority outfall drains in Apapa, the Port and
       Industrial areas of Lagos; and (b) the rehabilitation (re-dredging and lining in parts) of the
       main Surelere Channel (system 5) which accepts flows from a large part of south-west
       and central Lagos mainland including drains recently constructed under another project.
       The Surelere Channel is a natural Channel that is silted up, contains much refuse and

1Annex 1 to this Report.
2see The Inspection Panel, Operating Procedures (August 1994) at paragraph 17.



                                                     3

building rubble and is overgrown. It has not been dredged or cleared in over a decade.
As such its restricted sections have reduced the effectiveness of upstream drainage and
has led to major flooding following the heavy rains.



Project Benefits

7.      As stated in the project documents, the major benefits of the project will be the
reduction of flooding of dwellings, businesses, and transport corridors, reduced
deterioration of roads, elimination of unsightly accumulation of garbage in drains, and the
reduction in health hazards due to the flooding by sewage.           It is estimated that
approximately 1.3 million people (many of them very poor), live in the catchment areas
under consideration, including over 225,000 people who reside in the areas that are
subject to flooding. In addition, more people are affected by disruption to travel and to
commerce in the city during the rainy season. Furthermore, it is estimated that some 1.4
million peoples' movements are disrupted daily during the periods of flooding.

Environmental Impact

8.      The project, as designed, is not expected to have adverse impact on the
environment.     On the contrary, it is expected to improve the well-being, health and
sanitary conditions in the project area. The major temporary impacts relate to disruptions
caused by project construction which should be kept to a minimum by appropriate
requirements in the construction specifications.

9.      According to the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 11307-UNI) dated May 10, 1993
(SAR), agreement was reached during credit negotiations to incorporate appropriate
clauses in the legal documents to ensure that the removal of a number of structures,
which would intrude into the drainage right of way, were properly compensated for. A
resettlement plan was prepared. At the time of the signing of the Development Credit
Agreement there were about 405 residents living in 32 structures in the Apapa Drainage
area but apparently only one had a certificate of occupancy.         There were sixteen
temporary wooden shelters housing about 183 residents who had to be removed. At the
Apapa Drainage one section of the channel needed a realignment from the original design
to avoid removal of two further structures.

10.     According to Management, for the Surelere Channel, one permanent residence
housing twelve people and fifteen temporary shelters housing about 210 people and
traders had to be moved. In the case of the Mainland Drains the detailed alignment of the
drains was done so as to avoid any need for the relocation of people and buildings. For
the Lagos Island Drainage, no resettlement or removal of buildings was necessary.




                                         4

Compensation and Resettlement

11.     Lagos State Government normally pays dwellers of those properties having
certificate of occupancy or compensation based on market prices (estimated to be five
years rental value), and pays residents assistance with relocation based on at least two
months' income. Those without a certificate of occupancy can be paid compensation in a
similar manner but usually on an ad hoc basis.

12.     The resettlement plan required by IDA indicates that compensation and assistance
will be paid to all affected people, and that areas available for resettlement are of higher
quality than presently occupied, because they are located clear of natural drainage
channels.    It was also indicated that social or economic support is unlikely to be
necessary since the relocation will not affect the population's proximity to its largely
informal sources of income. An agreement was reached at negotiations that Lagos State
Government was to employ a consultant familiar with local conditions to provide the
analysis of the rights and procedures for all residents to seek compensation and prepare a
detailed implementation plan, satisfactory to the Association, to facilitate the
resettlement, and monitor the socio-economic conditions of the affected people before,
during and after relocation, including involvement of the people and relevant local
organizations in this process.

13.     An agreement was reached that the Lagos State Government would compensate
and assist owners and residents with relocation so as to improve or restore their living
standards, and that relocation actions should take place according to an agreed schedule,
including notification of occupants at least six months prior to the required date for
removal, valuation at least three months prior to removal, and payment at least one month
prior to the need for removal. Furthermore, it was agreed that there will be no relocation
until compensation in accordance with the resettlement plan has been paid.
Disbursement of funds for Apapa Drainage and the Surelere Channel are conditional on
the Consultant having been employed, an implementation plan satisfactory to the
Association having been prepared and satisfactory progress having been achieved with its
implementation.

14.     In addition, designs for Apapa Drains would be realigned, and final design of
Mainland and Surelere Drains would be carried out so as to minimize the need for
relocation.    According to the SAR, during project implementation the process of
relocation is to be closely monitored by IDA staff to ensure compliance with the plan.

                                3. The Credit

15.     On June 17, 1993, IDA's Executive Directors approved a credit of SDR 44.5
million (US$ 63 million equivalent) to the Federal Republic of Nigeria (the Borrower) to
assist in this financing of the Project. On July 30 of that year, IDA entered into a
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and a Project Agreement with the
State of Lagos that set forth the terms and conditions under which the credit was granted.
Both agreements were declared effective by IDA on April 21, 1994.


                                         5

                      4. The Basis of This Report

16.     This report is based on the Request, the Response, and additional information
provided by the Requesters and IDA Management.

17.     In addition, the Panel considered the information obtained by Edward S. Ayensu
("Inspector") during his site visits in Lagos (September 9­13, 16 and October 15-17,
1998) as well as discussions held with the Requesters and IDA officials, on joint site
visits to the affected communities, and with two IDA consultants, the Lagos State
Government officials, consultants for the valuation of properties compensation and
resettlement plan, the construction engineers, the Lagos Local (Municipal) Government
officials and independent Nigerians familiar with the project. Prior to the Inspector's
visit to Lagos, he consulted with the Executive Director representing the Government of
Nigeria.

18.     The main purpose of the Inspector's visits to Lagos was to seek accurate
information to enable the Panel to determine the eligibility of the Request for Inspection.
Due to serious discrepancies between the Requesters and IDA staff during the first joint
visit to the communities in question, the Inspector undertook more than one site visit to
the same communities to seek explanations and clarifications directly from the affected
people, and to obtain accurate accounts of precisely what took place during the alleged
evictions, victimizations, and brutality towards the affected people.

19.     During the first site visit the Inspector was accompanied by both the Requesters
and IDA staff. On the second site visit, the Inspector was accompanied by officials of the
Lagos State Government, the construction engineers and IDA staff. On that same day the
Inspector visited the offices of the Requesters to seek clarification on certain allegations
that the Lagos State Government had leveled against SERAC. The third site visit was
conducted by the Inspector in the company of the Sole Administrator of the Lagos Local
Government to establish which organization actually carried out the alleged forcible
evictions and the demolitions of dwellings in Ijora Oloye and Ijora Badia communities,
which is the main reason why SERAC filed the Request for Inspection. The last visit took
place on October 14-17, 1998, and the Inspector visited Ijora Oloye with the project's
Task Manager.

                     5. The Request for Inspection

20.     The Request claims that IDA has neglected to follow its policies and procedures
in the financing of the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project in the Ijora Badia and Ijora
Oloye communities because of the following:

    (a) "..... over 2000 persons have been forcibly evicted from their homes and
        businesses while thousands of others face an imminent threat of eviction. The
        evictions were carried out by officials of the Lagos State Ministry of Environment



                                           6

       and Physical Planning, the Lagos Urban Renewal Board and heavily armed police
       and other security forces who harassed and beat residents who tried to salvage
       their personal properties from their homes as bull-dozers reduced their dwellings
       to mere rubble."

   (b) "During the demolitions, project officials extorted huge sums of money from
       desperate residents based on promises to save their homes and properties from
       destruction."

   (c) "In July 1996, the Lagos State Government announced plans to demolish fifteen
       slum communities in Lagos thereby rendering approximately 1.2 million people
       homeless under the above-referenced World Bank-assisted project."

   (d) "In flagrant violation of the Bank's Operational Directives, the Constitution of the
       Federal Republic of Nigeria, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
       Cultural Rights (ICESCR) and other relevant international human rights
       instruments, the World Bank and its partner the Federal Military Government of
       Nigeria (and the beneficiary Lagos State Government) neglected, failed or refused
       to consult with the host communities during the development, planning and
       implementation of the project." and

   (e) "The residents of the host communities were not provided adequate notice prior to
       the commencement of the demolitions. At the time of filing this Request the
       victims have neither been resettled nor compensated for their losses."

Alleged Policy Violations

21.    The Requesters claim that the IDA has done harm to the affected people because
of its failure to follow its own policies and procedures relevant to the Project by
specifically referring to the following:

   (a) Operational Directive (OD) 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement (June 1990) that
       requires participation of host communities during project planning and
       implementation states;

   (b) Operational Directive (OD) 4.15 on Poverty Reduction (December 1991)
       providing for active involvement of beneficiaries beginning from the early states
       of a poverty reduction project;

   (c) Operational Directive (OD) 4.20 on Gender Dimensions of Development (April
       1994) that aims to reduce gender disparities and enhance women's participation in
       the economic development of their countries by requiring that gender
       considerations be integrated into assistance programs;




                                         7

    (d) Operational Directive (OD) 10.70 on Project Monitoring and Evaluation
        (September 1989) that provides for continuous assessment of project
        implementation in relation to project beneficiaries for the permanent improvement
        of overall management practice within borrower agencies;

    (e) Operational Policy/Bank Procedure (OP/BP) 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of
        Investment Operations (April 1994) that specifies that projects should integrate
        financial, institutional, technical, sociological, and environmental considerations;

    (f) Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association, Article V,
        Section 1(g) that conditions project financing; and

    (g) The provisions of the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project Credit Agreement
        (Credit Number 2517-UNI) that define the project's purpose to improve health
        standards and living conditions in areas of Lagos subject to regular flooding.

22.     The Requesters believe that the IDA, the Federal Government of Nigeria and the
Lagos State Government neglected, failed, and refused to consult with the affected
communities during the development, planning and implementation of the project.
Moreover, the residents were not provided with adequate notice prior to the
commencement of demolitions, and the victims have neither been resettled nor
compensated for their losses.


                 6. The IDA Management's Response

23.     Management has refuted all the allegations by the Requester and responded as
follows:

    (a) There is no evidence to indicate that over 2000 persons have been forcibly evicted
        by heavily armed police from their homes and businesses in Ijora Oloye and Ijora
        Badia under the Project.

    (b) In response to the claim that in July 1996 the Lagos State Government announced
        plans for 15 slum communities in Lagos to be demolished under the project,
        thereby rendering 1.2 million people homeless, IDA confirmed that such an
        announcement was reported in newspapers. However, the Ministry of
        Environment and Physical Planning refuted the claim on radio and television soon
        after the publication in newspapers. The Inspector received assurances from IDA
        staff and project authorities that demolition of these communities was not part of
        the Project, has not been carried out under the Project, and there were no plans for
        it to be carried out under the Project.

    (c) IDA has complied with the OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement for those people
        needing to be relocated as a result of the Project.




                                            8

(d) On the question of OD 4.15 covering Poverty Reduction, IDA has as one of its
    main objectives to improve the drainage and thereby public health in Lagos. This
    is consistent with the World Bank Group's strategy on poverty reduction and on
    human development in Nigeria. Management noted that while the Project is part
    of a total effort at poverty reduction, it does not have specific interventions on
    poverty reduction. Furthermore, the poor who live in the low lying areas near
    major drains, will benefit from the Project. Where they have been affected by the
    Project (i.e. the 286 people resettled at the Arakan district) the application of OD
    4.30 has been fully respected.

(e) IDA has complied with its OD 4.20 and the Credit Agreement during the
    implementation of the Project. All persons affected by the Project were treated
    equally. Everyone needing resettlement or compensation as a result of Project
    activity received it without regard to gender, and also without regard to whether
    or not they had a certificate of occupancy.

(f) With respect to OD 10.70 on Project Monitoring and Evaluation, the Response is
    that activities under the Project have been regularly monitored in the field. And
    as agreed during Credit negotiations, the Borrower's project management team
    has the primary responsibility for monitoring project execution and activities, and
    its representatives are on site most days. They regularly meet with the community
    leaders and help to resolve difficulties between the community and contractors.
    Where short-comings have been identified, actions have been agreed to correct
    them.

(g) Proper economic analysis of the project was completed at appraisal in conformity
    with OD 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations. The response
    noted further that a review by the IDA's Transportation, Water and Urban
    Development Department of the quality of economic analysis of a cohort of
    projects appraised around the same time as this Project made special mention of it
    as a good example.

(h) In accordance with the articles of Agreement Article V, Section 1(9), the proceeds
    of the Credit have been used for purposes of the project as evidenced by
    supervision reports and certified by the audits of the project accounts. Similarly,
    there has been compliance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement 2517-
    UNI.

(i) The allegation that IDA did not follow its own policies and procedures by not
    consulting with the host communities during the Project's planning and
    implementation phases or where consultation was held there was not sufficient
    follow-up, has also been dismissed by Management. The Response states that
    members of the communities were consulted during the planning of the
    resettlement exercise and during the urban upgrading study and pilot project
    design. There has also been and continues to be regular consultation between
    community members and Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning



                                       9

    representatives who are on site most days during implementation. IDA staff and
    consultants regularly talk to community members during missions.

(j) Management considers as untrue the allegation that the alleged victims suffer and
    continue to suffer destruction of their homes, livelihoods, communities and
    culture under the said IDA financed Project.

(k) Management refutes the allegation that the residents who have attempted to build
    their makeshift homes in the neighborhoods around the Project sites have been
    constantly terrorized by armed security guards.

(l) According to the Response, there is no evidence whatsoever that the
    communities' stable access to utilities had been disrupted as a result of the
    Project.

(m) On the claim that stagnant waste water has accumulated in the open channels
     which were constructed under the Project, Management pointed out that the
     Project area includes low lying swampy grounds which flood regularly when it
     rains. Stagnant pools have always existed at various locations along the natural
     channels prior to the Project. One of the primary objectives of the Project is to
     improve the situation by constructing effective drainage channels. It is obvious
     that the natural flow of the water cannot be stopped during the construction
     activities, and as part of the water management activities carried out by the
     contractors during the construction, it is typically backed up in some sections and
     pre-empted or otherwise diverted to active drains. Where the drains have been
     completed, water is flowing freely. For the drains to continue to function as
     designed, regular maintenance will be required, including regular solid waste
     disposal service, and community awareness programs to encourage communities
     not to use drains as garbage receptacles.

(n) In response to the claim that rather than the channels serving to deflood the
    communities, they have become a receptacle for waste water which overflows
    regularly into living spaces and endangers the lives of residents, Management
    contends that the natural channels--which predate the Project--are the primary
    receptacles for waste water in Lagos. Where the engineered drains have been
    completed, the evidence is that overflow into living spaces, that was prevalent
    before the Project, has been eliminated.

(o) Management refutes the allegation that many of the evictees have become
    squatters or live in distant places far removed from their employment. All the 286
    people who were displaced under the Project were settled or compensated in
    accordance with IDA policies. They were settled within 300 meters of their
    original dwellings.

(p) Management refutes the allegation that under this Project, women, children, and
    the disabled have suffered untold hardship under the Project. Furthermore, IDA



                                       10

    has provided for relief measures needed to mitigate the hardship or suffering of
    the 286 people by assisting their resettlement properly and compensating them in
    accordance with IDA policies.

(q) The actions and omissions described in the Request did not result from the Project
    funded by the World Bank Group. Where actions were required under the
    Project, IDA's policies were complied with.

(r) With respect to SERAC's allegations that IDA's responses to their complaints
    have been unsatisfactory, Management asserts that it has gone out of its way to
    respond to SERAC's communications, including visiting its offices and
    facilitating communication between SERAC and the proper Lagos State
    authorities.  IDA's responses have been factual, whether verbal or written.
    SERAC, in its further communications to others has misrepresented IDA, to an
    extent which suggested an unwillingness of SERAC to accept the facts about the
    Project provided to them by IDA.

(s) The IDA financed Project has not violated anybody's rights. Furthermore, IDA
    has no authority to discipline officials of the Local and State Governments for any
    alleged violations of the local population's rights especially outside this Project.

(t) According to Management, no evictions were carried out under the Project
    without proper resettlement or compensation. There is currently no new ground
    to be broken under the Project, which closes in March 1999. Hence, identification
    of additional affected people and buildings is unlikely.

(u) On the issue of uncompleted or alleged abandoned components of the Project,
    Management has stated that no part of the Project had been abandoned. Some
    parts are incomplete, and some work is proceeding more slowly than originally
    planned because of the difficult site conditions. In the specific case of Ijora
    Badia, the contractor elected to change from construction in a downstream
    direction to construction in the upstream direction to improve his access
    conditions. This is not an unusual procedure for civil engineering works under
    difficult conditions such as have occurred under this Project. This resulted in the
    work appearing at one point to have been abandoned, whereas, in fact, the
    contractor is working towards completion of the work from the opposite end of
    the drain. IDA acknowledges that the environmental conditions surrounding the
    drains are unpleasant, either before or during construction, as many of the areas
    have been used as waste dumps for years. The stagnant water will disappear, and
    the overflow will be eliminated as it has been demonstrated in areas where project
    works have been completed.

(v) IDA missions visited the Project sites and communities during project planning
    and implementation. IDA staff have regularly visited the project including site
    visits to those areas where work is ongoing, including meetings with community
    members. However, IDA does not have the resources to observe every activity



                                      11

    that happens, and therefore relies on project units and their consultants for
    detailed monitoring. IDA believes that this has been satisfactory and sufficient,
    and that the complaints that IDA expressed a vote of confidence in the Project
    without visiting the host communities are untrue.

(w)SERAC complained that meetings held with them occurred with few hours notice
    and often after one day before IDA officials were scheduled to depart from
    Nigeria. In response, IDA noted that they and their consultants have met with
    SERAC on at least five occasions. IDA's reply of July 15, 1997 to SERAC's first
    letter to Mr. James Wolfensohn offered to meet with them in Lagos during IDA's
    planned mission in September 1997. Unfortunately, Management did not hear
    SERAC's acceptance of this offer until the last day of the Bank's mission, at
    which time the Team Leader, after failing to make telephone contact; visited
    SERAC's Executive Director in his office in Lagos. The Executive Director
    subsequently visited IDA's Country Director in Washington in November 1997.
    In February 1998, a mission, en route from Abuja to Washington, managed to
    arrange a meeting with SERAC. The meeting did not take place because SERAC
    did not show up as arranged. In March this year, an IDA consultant met for
    several hours with SERAC's Executive Director, and she (the consultant) felt that
    the Executive Director was happy with the information he had received of what
    was being undertaken under the Project.       The consultant and SERAC were
    however unable to visit the site as fuel was not available in Lagos at the time. In
    May this year, IDA's other consultant visited SERAC's office and two days later,
    as SERAC requested, visited Ijora Badia and Ijora Oloye with SERAC to
    interview preselected community members. This and the subsequent visit in July
    revealed that the structures that SERAC claimed to have been demolished were in
    fact demolished after the Project drain was constructed. SERAC's telephone calls
    to IDA's Country Director in Washington, D.C., made between May 29 and June
    8, 1998 were returned on June 5, 1998 by his office because he was departing on
    mission to Nigeria.

(x) Management states that the claims that the community leaders complained of
    violation of their human rights under the Project because they did not receive
    prior notice of the visit of SERAC and IDA's consultant on May 29, 1998 is
    untrue. IDA visited the community members without notice in July and received
    no complaint of the violation of human rights. But a single complaint about
    access having been cut appeared to have been fully resolved.

(y) Finally, the claim that there has (as of June 16, 1998) been no feedback to
    SERAC of the results of the consultant's mission which concluded June 5, 1998,
    has been explained by IDA that the consultant's report was submitted to the
    IDA's Abuja office on June 25th 1998; that is after SERAC had submitted the
    Request for Inspection.




                                      12

                          7. Eligibility of the Request

    24.     Based on the written evidence provided by SERAC and interviews conducted by
    the Inspector, with people in the project area who feel affected by the design and
    execution of the project, the Panel finds that the Requesters are eligible to file a Request
    in accordance with the Resolution's establishing the Panel (IBRD No. 93-10 and IDA 93-
    6). On the determination of the eligibility of the substance of the Request, the Panel had
    to examine in detail the assertions made by the Requesters and IDA's Management
    Response as stated above. In addition, the Panel took into consideration its review of
    project files and the substance of the correspondence and meetings between the
    Requesters and Management and of the interviews conducted by the Inspector with
    affected people and IDA consultants (September 9-16 and October 14-17, 1998).
    Discussions were also held before, during, and after the site visits with both SERAC and
    IDA officials, as well as with the Lagos State Government officials and the construction
    engineers. Discussions were held with the Sole Administrator of the Lagos Local
    Government and finally with a number of private Lagos residents who live and/or are
    very familiar with the sites in question and are also knowledgeable about the local
    politics.

    25.     Based on the foregoing, the Panel has concluded that according to the Resolution,
    the Request for Inspection is not excluded from the Panel's competence and that it meets
    prima facie the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraphs 12 and 13.

8. Panel's Assessment and Evaluation of the Claims in the Request
                                        for Inspection

    26.     The Panel's examination of the Requesters claims that IDA neglected to follow its
    own policies and procedures in the financing of the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation
    Project included numerous direct interviews with members of the community in Ijora
    Oloye and Ijora Badia, suggest that some allegations in the Request may be exaggerated
    and, in some cases, untrue.

    27.     The residents at Ijora Oloye informed the Inspector on his third visit (which
    turned into a community meeting) that they were not evicted by any heavily armed police
    and/or other security forces who harassed or beat them when they tried to collect their
    belongings. The DTV Contractors did, however, remove two front rooms each of the 8
    block houses, 12 shanty dwellings and two shops.              The community members did
    emphasize that although they were not happy with the actions of the DTV contractors,
    they decided to allow them to go ahead with the construction of the drains because they
    could envision enormous community benefits from them. What they now requested was
    compensation for the properties that were demolished to make way for the drains. A
    similar response was given to the Inspector during his second visit to Ijora Badia.




                                                13

28.     In addition, the residents of the communities did confirm that no officials of IDA
or the Project had extorted huge sums of money from them. In any case, the Inspector
could not get anyone to admit that Project Officials have collected money from them.

29.     A Lagos State Government Representative has vehemently objected to the press
report of July 1996, that they have plans to demolish 15 slum communities in Lagos
under this project which is likely to render approximately 1.2 million people homeless.
The Lagos State Government has challenged SERAC to produce evidence about the plans
for the 15 slum communities in question and how SERAC arrived at its figures. To the
best of our knowledge, SERAC to date has not been able to produce such evidence.
SERAC reported to the Inspector that they had made several attempts to present their
evidence and that they have not been able to obtain audience with the State Government.
The Inspector requested copies of the evidence in question from SERAC, but was unable
to receive any during his visit to the SERAC offices. Furthermore, no such evidence had
been sent by SERAC to the Panel's office in Washington, in spite of the fact that it was
agreed that it would do so.

30.     The Panel examined the issue of uncompleted or alleged abandonment of
components of the Project and arrived at the following conclusions:

    (a) Indeed some of the construction work was proceeding slower than was originally
         planned. This situation has been blamed on the very difficult terrain at the work
         sites.

    (b) In the case of the uncompleted works in Ijora Badia, the contractors decided to
         stop its operations in the downstream direction. This they say must have been
         perceived by the Requesters as an abandonment of the works.            The Panel
         Inspector was taken to the upstream direction where construction was proceeding
         under extremely difficult conditions.     The civil engineers did convince the
         Inspector of their decision to approach the work in a manner that will ultimately
         result in the successful completion of the works.

31.     On the question of human rights violations in connection with this particular
Project, the Panel did not find any prima facie evidence that IDA did neglect, fail, or
refuse to consult with the host communities during the development planning and
implementation of the Project, thus, Management does not appear to have violated
applicable IDA Operational Directives. The Panel, however, believes that IDA overly
relied on the Lagos State Officials to do most of the consulting with the communities.

32.     Evidence gathered by the Panel suggests that SERAC seems to be justified in
claiming that some residents of Ijora Oloye were neither provided with adequate notice
prior to the commencement of the demolition of parts of the block houses and the shanty
dwellings to make way for the construction of the drainage nor were they provided with
any compensation for their losses. In the case of Ijora Badia, however, the people seem
to have been adequately consulted and compensated.




                                          14

33.      The Lagos State Government informed the Inspector that the communities were
provided with enough notice, but they just refused to move, hence the decision taken by
the DTV contractors to demolish sections of the housing which were close to the drainage
sites in order for them to meet their completion deadlines.


                           9. Specific Allegations

34.     The Panel examined the specific allegations against IDA especially with respect
to it Operational Directives 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement; OD 4.15 on Poverty
Reduction; OD 4.20 on Gender Dimensions of Development; OD 10.70 on Project
Monitoring and Evaluation; Operational Policy/Bank Procedure 10.04 on Economic
Evaluation of Investment Operations; Articles of Agreement of IDA, Article V Section
1(g) that conditions project financing; and finally the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation
Credit Agreement (Credit Number 2517-UNI) that identifies the project's purpose to
impose health standards and living conditions in areas of Lagos subject to regular
flooding.




10. Panel's Evaluation of the Substance of the Request for
                                     Inspection

35.      The Panel is satisfied that, notwithstanding the fact that the original composite
maps did not indicate the presence of any settlements in the path of the drainage areas in
the Ijora Badia community, and the fact that literally all the people had no title or permits
to build in the community, the Project contemplated resettlement or compensation
arrangements, before the commencement of the construction works, for the 8 identified
structures in Ijora Badia (one 3 rooms of boys quarters plus bathroom, one generator
shed and paved courtyard, 3 plank sheds and 3 plank sheds with paved floor) which the
Hussplan Consult indicated in the Final Draft Report on Detailed Valuation of Properties
and Computation of Compensation and Resettlement Plan for People Affected by the
World Bank Assisted Lagos Drainage Works (January 1995).

36.      The evidence gathered by the Panel suggests that, unlike the situation with the
Arakan Barracks resettlement program, in which Management fully followed IDA's
Operational Directives, a similar attempt was not made to compensate or resettle some
affected people in the Ijora Oloye community. It must be pointed out, however, that from
the composite aerial maps there seem to have been no dwellings in the drainage site area
at the time of the signing of the Credit Agreement.

37.      IDA should have considered similar resettlement or compensation arrangements
for 32 shanty rooms and 10 block rooms that belong to 18 owners in the Ijora Oloye
community. These dwellings were identified by the Inspector during his site visit and




                                         15

both IDA and project officials have formally agreed that compensation will be provided
to its owners in accordance with IDA policies.

38.     And, as the Requester pointed out to the Inspector in the SERAC offices on the
afternoon of Sept. 13, 1998, SERAC will be satisfied if the affected people in Ijora Oloye
are compensated for the demolition of their properties. The Panel believes that such
compensation, albeit late, would be consistent with IDA policies. After the Inspector's
last visit to the project area with the Task Manager and officials of the Lagos State
Government, the Panel has been assured of the amicable settlement of the issue.

39.     The Panel, however, did not find evidence that those who have attempted to build
their homes in the vicinities within the affected areas are being constantly terrorised by
armed security guards since new buildings were coming up during the inspection of the
sites.

40.     The Panel is satisfied that the project's proposed improvement to the drainage
systems in Lagos is consistent with the IDA's strategy of poverty reduction and human
development in Nigeria. It did not find evidence of discrimination against women and
children in all the areas affected by the Project.

41.     On the issue of Project Monitoring and Evaluation, the Panel believes that a much
closer supervision by IDA should have been provided, not withstanding the fact that
during the Credit negotiations, the primary responsibility for monitoring the project
execution was assigned to responsible officials of the Lagos State Government, since
they were poised to meet regularly with the community leaders and help resolve
difficulties between the community and the contractors. Management, however, did
drive home the fact that they did not have the financial resources to observe every
activity related to project execution as part of its normal supervision.

42.     The Panel is of the opinion that while most of the Operational policies and
particularly the OD 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations seem to
have been followed during the preparation of the Project, the sociological considerations
did not appear fully integrated into the project design. The two project consultants
interviewed by the Inspector did express their concerns about the lack of appropriate
measures which should have been introduced in the project design to ensure the effective
maintenance of the drainage channels constructed under the Project. The Panel concurs
with this view.

43.     The Panel is of the opinion that the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project will
improve the health standards and the living conditions of the affected communities in the
Ijora Badia and Ijora Oloye and of the project areas, which is in accordance with IDA's
policies and procedures.

44.     A typical example of the socio-cultural dimension of the Lagos development
process, however, is the refusal of the people who have been provided with built-in flush
toilets to use such hygienic facilities instead of using the banks of the drainage channels



                                          16

and any empty space they see. The Panel is aware of the enormous measures that would
be required to enlighten the entire slum communities in Lagos to practice hygienic
disposal of human waste and other refuse. This, the Panel believes, is outside the scope of
this particular Project.

45.     Finally, the Panel wishes to acknowledge the concerns and the efforts of SERAC
for exhibiting such courage in defending the rights of the affected people during the past
regime in Nigeria. The Panel further believes that its presence in the equation has made
it possible for the Requesters to develop better dialogue with IDA staff in the resolution
of outstanding issues.



                        11.       Recommendation

46.     After careful examination of the Request for Inspection, the Response and the
Inspector's onsite examination of the facts and other findings, and the assurances
received by the Inspector that the remaining affected project area people will be
compensated in accordance with IDA policies, the Panel does not recommend an
investigation in response to the Request for Inspection.




                                        17

    ANNEX 1

Request for Inspection




          18

                        REQUEST FOR INSPECTION

                  In the Matter of the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project
                                        (Credit No. 2517-0)

To: THE INSPECTION PANEL, 1818 H Street, N.W., Washington, DC, 20433 USA

We, the Social and Economic Right Action Center (SERAC), a Lagos-based non governmental,
nonpartisan and voluntary initiative concerned with the promotion and protection of social and
economic rights in Nigeria, for ourselves and on behalf of individuals, families, and community
development associations directly affected by the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project, claim
the following:


1.      The International Development Agency of the World Bank is financing the Lagos
        Drainage and Sanitation Project (hereinafter "the project") in Ijora Badiya and Ijora
        Oloye, both slum communities in Lagos. Under this project, over 2000 persons have been
        forcibly evicted from their homes and businesses while thousands of others face an
        imminent threat of eviction. The evictions were carried out by officials of the Lagos State
        Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning, the Lagos Urban Renewal Board and
        heavily armed police and other security forces who harassed and beat residents who tried
        to salvage their personal properties from their homes as bulldozers reduced their
        dwellings to mere rubbles. During the demolitions, project officials extorted huge sums
        of money from desperate residents based on promises to save their homes and properties
        from destruction.    In July 1996, the Lagos State Government announced plans to
        demolish fifteen slum communities in Lagos thereby rendering approximately 1.2 million
        people homeless under the above referenced World Bank assisted project. In flagrant
        violation of The Bank's Operational Directive, the Constitution of the Federal Republic
        of Nigeria, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
        (ICESCR) and other relevant international human rights instruments, the World Bank and
        its partner the federal Military Government of Nigeria (and the beneficiary Lagos State
        Government) neglected, failed or refused to consult with the host communities during the
        development, planning and implementation of the project. The residents of the host
        communities were not provided adequate notice prior to the commencement of the
        demolitions. At the time of filing this Request, the victims have neither been resettled nor
        compensated for their losses.

2.      We understand that the Bank has the following policies and procedures which are apt and
        relevant to a consideration of the present Request:

        Operational Directive (OD) 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement (June 1990) that
        requires participation of host communities during project planning and implementation
        stages;

        OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction (December 199 1) providing for active involvement of
        beneficiaries beginning from the early stages of a poverty reduction project;



                                                 19

    OD 4.20 on Gender Dimensions of Development (April 1994) that aims to reduce gender
    disparities and enhance women's participation in the economic development of their
    countries by requiring that gender considerations be integrated into assistance programs;

    OD 10.70 on Project Monitoring and Evaluation (September 1989) that provides for
    continuous assessment of project implementation in relation to project beneficiaries for
    the permanent improvement of overall management practice within borrower agencies;

    Operational Policy/Bank Procedure 10. 04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment
    Operations (April 1994) that specifies that projects should integrate financial,
    institutional, technical, sociological, and environmental considerations;

    Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association, Article V, Section
    l(g) that conditions project financing; and

    Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Credit Agreement, Credit Number 2517-0, that identifies
    the project's purpose to improve health standards and living conditions in areas of Lagos
    subject to regular flooding.

3.  Our interests have been, and continue to be, directly and adversely affected by the failure
    of the Bank to comply with its policies, procedures, and the credit agreement during the
    implementation of the project. The demolition of the homes and destruction of properties
    of the residents of the host communities without compensation, resettlement or
    rehabilitation constitutes a massive violation of the rights of the victims to adequate
    housing, education, adequate standards of living, security of the person, a healthy
    environment, food, health, work, respect of dignity inherent in a human being, freedom of
    movement, family life, water, privacy, information and the right to chose one's own
    residence. SERAC is concerned with the promotion and protection of social and
    economic rights in Nigeria. Further, SERAC is mandated to broaden the access of
    individuals and communities to information and to strengthen their participation in the
    design and implementation of social and economic policies and programs which affect
    them.

4.  The Bank has violated its policies, procedures, and the credit agreement because the host
    communities were not consulted during the project's planning and implementation stages.
    Where brief discussions were held, the consultation was nullified by insufficient follow-
    up efforts to ensure that the community development associations and the families
    affected understood their rights and roles as stakeholders in the project. Further, the host
    communities have not been able to effectively express their opposition during the
    implementation phase of the project due to the brutal activities of heavily armed security
    forces during the demolitions and their continuing well-founded fears of official reprisals.
    The victims of the demolitions have neither been resettled, rehabilitated, nor
    compensated for their losses.




                                              20

5.  We believe our interests and the stakeholders' rights have been, are being and will likely
    continue to be, materially and adversely affected as a direct result of the Bank's non-
    compliance with its Operational Directives. The victims ' have suffered and continue to
    suffer destruction of their homes, livelihoods, communities and culture. Residents who
    have attempted to build makeshift homes in neighborhoods around the project site have
    been constantly terrorized by armed security agents. Contrary to the project's objective to
    uplift the living standards of the slum communities, it has, in fact, exacerbated those
    conditions. The local communities' stable access to utilities have been disrupted as a
    result of the project. Stagnant waste water accumulated in the open drainage channels
    which were constructed under the project has become a potent source of danger to the
    health and well-being of the local population. Rather than de-flood the communities, the
    channels have become a receptacle for waste water which overflows regularly into living
    spaces and endangers the lives of residents. Many of the evictees have been forced to
    become squatters or live in distant places far removed from their employment thereby
    further impoverishing an already poor and vulnerable population. Further, women,
    children, and the disabled have suffered untold hardships under the project. No relief
    measures have been applied to mitigate the suffering of these members of the population
    as mandated by the Bank's policies.

6.  We believe the actions and omissions described in the present Request are the
    responsibilities of the Bank because they have resulted from a project funded by it. The
    Bank therefore holds a clear legal obligation to ensure that the project is implemented in
    accordance with its own Operational Directives as well as applicable domestic and
    international law. Being a specialized agency of the United Nations, the Bank is bound by
    the U.N. Charter which recognizes the human rights of every individual.

7.  We have complained to the World Bank through its officials and consultants by the
    following means (in reverse chronological order):

    Telephone messages (un-returned by Mr. Ansu as of the date of this filing) for Yaw
    Ansu, Country Director for Nigeria, World Bank, from Felix Morka, Executive Director,
    Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAQ, placed at several points between
    May 28 and June 8, 1998;

    Tour of the host communities by Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning
    Engineers Dapo Ajadi, M.A. Akinsanya, and Erinle; World Bank Consultants Professor
    Akeredolu-Ale and J.W.E. Metibaiye; Lagos State Urban Renewal Board Official, Mr.
    Olowu; and SERAC staff members Joseph Otteh, Director of Programs, and Uzodinma
    Nwaogbe, Neighborhood Network Coordinator, to Ijora Oloye and Badiya on May 28,
    1998;




                                            21

Meeting between the Dr. Ellen Boitel-Doku, World Bank Consultant; Engineer T.O.
Erinle, Lagos State Government; Engineer G.A. Ajadi, Lagos State Government; Felix
Morka, Executive Director, SERAC; Joseph Otteh, Director of Programs, SERAC; and
Uzodinma Nwaogbe, Neighborhood Network Coordinator, SERAC, dated March 26,
1998;

Meeting between David Henley, Project Task Manager, Lagos Drainage and Sanitation
Project, World Bank; Engineer M.A. Akinsanya, Head, Lagos Drainage and Sanitation
Project, Ministry of the Environment and Physical Planning, Lagos State Secretariat;
Felix Morka, Executive Director, SERAC; Uzodinma Nwaogbe, Neighborhood Network
Coordinator, SERAC; Kimberly Futrell, Legal Officer, SERAC; and Rotimi
Amurawaiye, Consultant, Forced Evictions Prevention Project, SERAC, during February
1998;

Meetings between David Henley, Project Task Manager, Lagos Drainage and Sanitation
Project, World Bank, and Felix Morka, Executive Director, SERAC, on September 19,
1997 in SERAC's Lagos headquarters and between both men and Yaw Ansu, Country
Director for Nigeria, at the World Bank headquarters in November 1998;

Letter to Yaw Ansu, Country Director for Nigeria, Africa Region, World Bank, regarding
Resettlement Issues Surrounding the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project, dated
August 14, 1997, from Kimberly A. Futrell, Legal Officer, SERAC;

Telephone call from Kimberly Futrell, Legal Officer, SERAC, to Yaw Ansu, Country
Director for Nigeria, World Bank, on September 18, 1997;

Letter to Commissioner Nosirudeen Kekere, Lagos State Ministry of Environment and
Physical Planning, regarding Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project Resettlement of
Evicted Persons, dated August 11, 1997, from Felix Morka, Executive Director;

Letter to James D. Wolfensohn, World Bank Group President, regarding World Bank
Financing of Forced Evictions in Lagos, dated June 30,1997;

Telephone message from Felix Morka, Executive Director, SERAC, to Surjit Singh,
Acting Country Director for Nigeria, World Bank, on June 2, 1997;

Electronic Mail to Eleanor Warner, World Bank, from Kimberly Futrell, Legal Officer,
SERAC, regarding possible projects in Badiya, dated January 15, 1997;

Telephone messages placed by Kimberly Futrell, Legal Officer, SERAC, on January 13
and 14, 1997 to Eleanor Warner, World Bank; and




                                       22

     Telephone calls placed by Kimberly Futrell, Legal Officer, SERAC, on January 8, 1997
     to Surjit Singh, Acting Country Director for Nigeria, and World Bank staff members
     Daniel Pencock and Samuel Onwuona.

8.   We believe that the responses to our complaint have been unsatisfactory. The victims of
     the demolitions have neither been resettled, rehabilitated, nor compensated for their
     losses. They have not received any remedies for the physical and mental pain inflicted on
     them by the armed security agencies during the evictions. No official has been questioned
     or punished for these violations of the local populations' rights. In addition, SERAC and
     the host communities remain uncertain and apprehensive as to when future evictions are
     scheduled or when apparently abandoned components of the project (i.e. unlined and
     open pits that now contain hazardous stagnant water) will be completed. These
     uncompleted or abandoned components have been linked to deleterious health and
     environmental conditions within the host communities. Instead of remedying the
     homelessness, health perils, and environmental devastation caused by the project, the
     Bank issued News Release 98/1435 AFR expressing a vote of confidence in the project
     without first visiting the host communities or meeting with community leaders to assess
     the situation.

     Meetings with SERAC were held with less than an average of a few hour's notice to the
     organization, and often one day before Bank officials were scheduled to depart from
     Nigeria. More than one year after SERAC's first contact with the Bank regarding this
     matter, a team of two consultants to the Bank, officials of the Lagos State Government, a
     resident Bank official and SERAC officials undertook a joint visit to the host
     communities on May 28, 1998 and met with community leaders. Although they received
     no prior notice of the visit, the community leaders and many affected families
     complained of violations of their human rights under the project. There has been no
     feedback from the Bank to the victims or to SERAC since that visit.

9.   We have also contacted other domestic, regional, and international human rights
     monitoring bodies and members of the media to express our concerns about the project.
     We respectfully submit that the above actions have materially and adversely affected our
     interests and the stakeholders' rights and request that the Inspection Panel recommend to
     the Bank's Executive Directors that an investigation of these matters be expeditiously and
     comprehensively carried out in order to remedy these violations.

     As advised in your Operating Procedures, this Request for Inspection is brief SERAC can
     provide you with more particulars including documents, audio recordings, and videotapes
     should you require additional information in support of this Request.


DATE:                               June 16, 1998
SIGNATURE:

                                    Felix C. Morka, Esq.
                                    Executive Director



                                              23

CONTACT ADDRESS:                   Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)
                                   16 Awori Crescent             Postal
                                   Off Coker Rd./Obokun St.      P.O. Box 13616
                                   Ilupeju-Lagos                 Ikeja-Lagos
                                   NIGERIA                       NIGERIA
                                   Tel/Fax 231.1.496.8605        serac@linkserve.com.ng

                                   Please send duplicate copies of official documents relating
                                   to this request to our United States unit: SERAC; P.O. Box
                                   5711; Takoma Park, MD 20913; Tel. (301)495-5997; Fax
                                   (301)495-0339; serac@internetmci.com.

We authorize you to make this Request public.

Filed by Hand Against Confirmation.




                                              24

    ANNEX 2

Management Response




        25

  LAGOS DRAINAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR. No. 2517-UNI)
                RESPONSE TO INSPECTION PANEL REQUEST


INTRODUCTION

1. On June 25, 1998, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection (the Request)
   dated June 16, 1998 from an organization called Social and Economic Rights Action Center
   (SERAC) for themselves and on behalf of individuals, families and community development
   associations which they claim to have been directly affected by the IDA financed Lagos
   Drainage and Sanitation Project in Nigeria (Cr. No. 2517-UNI). The Inspection Panel
   notified the Executive Directors and Bank President about the registration on June 26, 1998.
   This document constitutes the management response to the issues raised and allegations
   made in the Request.

DESCRIPTION AND PRESENT STATUS OF THE PROJECT

2. The Project was approved by the Board June 17, 1993 and became effective April 24, 1994.
   The Project cost was estimated at $89.1 million, of which SDR 44,500,000 ($63 million
   equivalent) was to be financed by IDA, and the remainder by Lagos State Government.
   Currently about 90% of the Credit is disbursed. The closing date was originally June 30,
   1998, and this has been extended to March 31, 1999 to permit completion of a few contracts.
   The Project was a follow up to the Lagos Solid Waste and Storm Drainage Project (Ln. No.
   2620-UNI) which closed September 30, 1993.

3. The Project consists of seven components. The major component (about 83% of the total
   Project cost) is the construction/regrading/realignment/lining of main storm water drains to
   reduce flooding in several areas of Lagos. These drains also serve as de facto sewers.
   Support was also given under this component to maintain existing drains (e.g. clear debris
   and sediment, repair concrete lining) and improve drain maintenance procedures. Smaller
   components of the Project, all related to the project objective of improving the functioning of
   Lagos as an urban center, are: further assistance to the Lagos Waste Management Authority
   to help improve management of solid waste; preparation for the Lagos Urban Renewal Board
   (URB) of a plan for urban upgrading and a pilot project to demonstrate the benefits of the
   proposals made; preparation of plans for wastewater disposal; development of a land
   information system; improvement in municipal revenue generation procedures; and a training
   program for Lagos State Government officials. The Project implementing agency is the
   Lagos State Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning (MEPP).

4. The storm drainage component of the Project included about 50 kilometers of primary and
   secondary drains, some concrete lined and some dredged earth channel, including bridges
   and culverts. These are located in Lagos Island (the downtown heart of Lagos), Apapa
   (including the districts of Ijora, Badia, Oloye, Arakan and Ajegunle), Surulere, Yaba,
   Mushin, Luth and Oshodi/Ilupeju.        Plans showing these areas and drain locations are
   available upon request.




                                                26

5. The Project has been rated satisfactory for both implementation and development objectives
   throughout its lifetime, despite delays in some components, and difficulties experienced by
   some contractors under demanding civil works construction conditions. Its implementation
   by the project unit is judged to have been businesslike in difficult circumstances. There were
   some initial delays in meeting effectiveness conditions (nine months) related to the
   subsidiary Loan Agreement and establishment of a counterpart fund account and the payment
   of the initial deposit.


THE ALLEGATIONS

Present Request

6. The allegations by SERAC are that under the Project, 2000 persons have been forcibly
   evicted from their homes and businesses in two slum communities of Lagos, stated to be in
   areas known as Ijora Badiya (hereinafter referred to as Ijora Badia or simply Badia) and Ijora
   Oloye, while thousands of others face an imminent threat of eviction. They claim that
   evictions were carried out by officials of the Lagos State Ministry of Environment and
   Physical Planning, the Lagos Urban Renewal Board and heavily armed police and other
   security forces who harassed and beat residents who tried to salvage their personal property
   as their homes were destroyed. They claim that during the demolition, Project officials
   extorted huge sums of money from residents based on promises to save their homes and
   properties from destruction. SERAC further claims that the Lagos State Government in July
   1996 announced plans, under the Project, to demolish fifteen communities in Lagos thereby
   rendering 1.2 million people homeless.

7. SERAC claims that the Bank, the Government of Nigeria and Lagos State Government
   neglected, failed or refused to consult with the communities during the development,
   planning and implementation of the Project, the residents were not provided adequate notice
   prior to commencement of demolitions, and that the victims have neither been resettled nor
   compensated for their losses.

Previous Communications with SERAC

8. SERAC has contacted the Bank previously concerning this project, the first formal
   communication being to Mr. Wolfensohn dated June 30, 1997, to which we replied July 15,
   1997. A further letter was sent to us August 18, 1997 and replied September 18 and 22,
   1997. Copies of these are at Attachment 1.

9. Bank staff and consultants have met with SERAC on at least five occasions. Our reply of
   July 15, 1997 to their first letter to Mr. Wolfensohn offered to meet with them in Lagos
   during our planned next mission in September 1997. Unfortunately we did not hear their
   acceptance of this offer until the last day of our mission, at which time the Bank's Team
   Leader, after failing to make telephone contact, visited SERAC's Executive Director in his
   office in Lagos and explained what is being financed by IDA under the project. The
   Executive Director subsequently visited the Bank's Country Director in Washington in
   November 1997 for a meeting that lasted almost two hours. In February this year, a mission



                                               27

    en route from Abuja to Washington managed to arrange for SERAC to meet with it and
    Lagos Government officials to facilitate communication between them. SERAC did not
    follow up on that meeting as was agreed. In March this year our consultant met for several
    hours with SERAC's Executive Director in Lagos and further explained what was included
    under the project; they were unable to visit the site as fuel was not available in Lagos at the
    time. In May this year our consultant visited SERAC's office and, two days later, as SERAC
    requested, visited Ijora Badia and Ijora Oloye with SERAC to interview selected community
    members.

MANAGEMENT RESPONSE

Purported Announcement Concerning Eviction of 1.2 Million People

10. Our initial communication from SERAC in July 1997 related to an announcement purported
    to have been made by the Lagos State Commissioner for Environment and Physical Planning,
    as reported in local newspapers in July 1996, that 15 slum areas in Lagos would be
    demolished under the Project, and that this would result in the eviction of 1.2 million people,
    including people from Ijora Badia and Ijora Oloye. This purported announcement is again
    referred to by SERAC's latest communication. We have never been able to confirm whether
    or not the Commissioner made this statement, or whether he was mis-reported, as he departed
    this office a short time after the alleged announcement. The Ministry, MEPP, claims to have
    refuted the reported statement, on radio and television, shortly after the newspaper report was
    published. In any case, it is clearly not part of the Project, or as a consequence of activities
    under the Project, to evict 1.2 million people, and it has not happened despite the fact that the
    Project is now close to completion; SERAC makes no claim that it has in fact happened.
    However the Commissioner's statement, whatever it was, could have been related to the
    project component for the Urban Renewal Board discussed in paragraph 17 below.

Resettlement at Arakan and Badia Areas Under the Project

11. The environmental assessment prepared during project preparation identified that
    resettlement would be necessary, mostly in the Arakan Barracks and Badia areas within the
    Project area. Although the resettlement plan was not prepared during appraisal, it was
    prepared and discussed with the Government before Board presentation. It was therefore
    included in the Appraisal Report and the cost of resettlement was included in the Project
    costs. In the final analysis, after adjustment to designs to minimize the amount of
    resettlement needed, 286 people were identified by name to be resettled. Most of these
    inhabited makeshift buildings constructed alongside or on stilts above existing drains, and
    had no certificate of occupancy. Lagos State Government identified a resettlement area
    within a few hundred meters of their original location, constructed houses and shop facilities,
    and assisted these people to move. The selection of the resettlement area and the design of
    the resettlement were done in consultation with the affected people. The site was selected
    taking into account access to employment. Some (about 40 people), by choice, elected to
    receive compensation and move elsewhere. Since these people were mainly squatters,
    compensation was paid for lost assets, in accordance with the property valuation system of
    the Lagos State Government. Pictures of the settlements before and after are at Attachment
    2.



                                                  28

12. The Project Agreement between IDA and the Lagos State Government required that Lagos
    State Government (LASG) employ a consultant to prepare a detailed implementation plan for
    their resettlement, adequately compensate all the persons affected by resettlement, and carry
    out the resettlement of affected persons under a schedule satisfactory to IDA. Consultants
    were appointed by LASG and the consultant's initial proposal was submitted to the Bank in
    March 1994. Following Bank comments, documents on property valuations and designs for
    the resettlement area were submitted in March 1995. Construction proceeded through to
    December 1996 at which time the new facilities were occupied. The Bank monitored this
    activity throughout, by means of regular visits by a consultant sociologist (in May 1995 and
    June and November 1996 - reports at Attachments 3, 4 and 5). The consultant's reports did
    not identify any significant shortcomings in the activities being undertaken, and indicated
    that the people's livelihood had been restored, and in many respects improved.             The
    November 1996 report recommended evaluation of the whole resettlement a year later; this
    was scheduled for November 1997 but had to be postponed at the final moment due to
    sudden unavailability of our consultant, and rescheduled for March 1998. Conditions in
    Lagos in March 1998 rendered the review largely ineffective (fuel shortage prevented the
    mission from visiting the site - Attachment 6) and it was repeated in May 1998 with a
    different consultant. The mission report (Attachment 7, Part A) identified some lessons
    learned in the resettlement exercise, but was highly favorable concerning the overall
    resettlement activity. Interviews revealed that the resettled families are satisfied with their
    new accommodation and are settling in effectively.

13. Overall, this exercise is believed to have been highly satisfactory and fully in accordance
    with the Bank's Operational Directive OD 4.30. We are not aware of any complaint related
    to this resettlement, either by SERAC or any others.

Ijora Oloye

14. During our May 1998 review, an additional group of 25 structures at Ijora Oloye was
    reported to have been affected by drainage construction. These structures were identified
    during a mission by our consultant who was accompanied at the time by members of
    SERAC. These structures, shops or dwellings, generally of temporary construction, had each
    had a number of rooms demolished, reportedly to make way for an improved drain being
    constructed under the Project.     Further investigations (a subsequent visit by the same
    consultant with the Bank's Team Leader) have shown that the demolitions at this site in fact
    occurred after the construction of the drain, which was completed by about the end of
    1995. The community had recognized an additional potential benefit to themselves of
    extending the contractor's access road (which had been constructed across unoccupied
    marsh) alongside the full length of the drain to improve their access. The community had
    arranged removal of the temporary structures impeding the construction of the extension of
    this access road, but had had objection from the owner of the single permanent building
    affected by the road, and had sought the intervention of the Local Government Authority task
    force to arrange its removal. This road was not part of the Project, came later, was not
    financed by the Project, and we were not consulted about it. (Refer to Attachment 7, Parts A




                                                29

    and B. Part A reflects the findings of the consultant's first visit, and Part B reflects his
    findings following more extensive discussions with the community members.)

15. There appears still to be some animosity in the community between factions wanting the road
    and factions supporting the occupant of the single permanent building. The community's
    difficulties had been exacerbated by a major fire in April this year which had destroyed a
    large number of residences, including those affected by the road construction. During the
    visit to the site in July 1998 by the Bank's Team Leader, our consultant, and others, we heard
    from the community no blame attached to the Project; but we observed new buildings on
    sites which had been reclaimed from swamp as a result of the construction of the drains. As
    regards the SERAC complaint, this situation relating to the 25 structures, though still located
    in Ijora Oloye, is so different from that described by SERAC (2000 people forcibly evicted at
    gunpoint, and beaten) as to be clearly a different event. The only critical comment from this
    community during our July visit was that access across a major drain had been cut. This
    appeared     to    have      been  resolved  by    them   providing   their   own     crossing.

Ijora Badia

16. In Ijora Badia, the second area indicated in SERAC's complaint, during the July 1998 visit
    we could identify only one building, of temporary construction, which had been relocated by
    its owner, clear of the proposed drain alignment.

Urban Renewal Board (URB)

17. The URB component of the Project involved a study and a pilot demonstration project based
    on the results of the study. The study involved the development of a program for urban
    upgrading in the so called "blighted areas" of Lagos, to provide better access, improved
    roads, footpaths and tertiary drains, ablution blocks, schools and medical centers, and other
    community         facilities,   but   all  with     the   over-arching     requirement     that
    eviction/demolition/resettlement should be kept to an absolute minimum.           The report
    identified the blighted areas, drew up a multi-year program for implementation of upgrading,
    noted that, if implemented, 1.2 million people would benefit, and designed a pilot
   demonstration project for the adjudged "most blighted" community.              The report was
   presented a short time before the Commissioner's reported statement. The pilot area chosen
   was Ijora Badia, which we have described simply as Badia. It covers an area of about 25
   hectares, and the works of upgrading are close to completion. No resettlement was identified
   as necessary in the design of the pilot. The site has been inspected regularly by Bank
   missions before and during implementation of the pilot project.      One building, which was
   uninhabited at the time, was identified by the community as having to be removed to make
   way for a community building, however at the time of our last visit, this building had been
   half demolished and the other half had been upgraded and was inhabited. The planning of
   this work was undertaken with the full participation and cooperation of the community.
   Bank staff did not directly participate in the community consultation process, but we satisfied
   ourselves that it took place, having been shown videos of the community meetings with
   URB. Bank missions are always warmly greeted by the community leaders who indicate
   their full support and joy about the project, and complain only that the work is not concluded



                                                 30

    yet. We have also been sent letters indicating the value the community places on this work.
    Implementation has not been without difficulty, however it must be judged as successful,
    capable of improvement but worthy of replication, rather than something to be complained
    of.   Our most recent visit observed spontaneous independent development activity
    commencing in the community, most probably related to the improved conditions resulting
    from the project.      Typical photos of Badia before and after upgrading are shown at
    Attachment 8.

18. While SERAC has not specifically mentioned this pilot project, it has mentioned the area
    known as Badia. It appears that the reported announcement by the Commissioner has caused
    SERAC's confusion and unwillingness to believe our explanations of what resettlement we
    have been associated with, and what we have not.

Previous SERAC Assertion

19. SERAC's earlier communication with us during 1997 (see paragraphs 8 and 9) also
    mentioned verbally that people were being displaced in the Ikeja district as a result of drain
    construction under the Project. We indicated that was not the case in Ikeja, and although
    they proposed to bring us evidence of this, none has been provided, and this is not part of
    their present complaint.

Conclusion

20. The Project affected 286 people. All of these people were resettled or compensated in
    accordance with Bank policies. Events of 1.2 million people being rendered homeless, or
    2,000 people being moved at gunpoint, as mentioned by SERAC, are clearly not the same as
    286 people being resettled or compensated under the Project. We have no evidence that such
    events occurred.

SUMMARY OF SPECIFIC ISSUES AND RESPONSES

Claim 1: Under the Project, over 2000 persons have been forcibly evicted by heavily armed
police from their homes and businesses in Ijora Badia and Ijora Oloye.

Response: No such event occurred under the Project, and there is no evidence indicated by the
complainant, or reason that we know of, for such an event to have occurred.

Claim 2:     In July 1996 the Lagos State Government announced plans for fifteen slum
communities in Lagos to be demolished under the Project, thereby rendering 1.2 million
people homeless.

Response: Such an announcement was reported in newspapers. MEPP claims that it was
rebutted by them on radio and television soon after the newspaper report appeared. Demolition
of these communities is not part of the Project, has not been carried out under the Project, and
there are no plans for it to be carried out under the Project.




                                                  31

Claim 3: SERAC's interests have been, and continue to be, directly and adversely affected by
the failure of the Bank to comply with its policies, procedures and the credit agreement during
the implementation of the Project, namely OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement.

Response: This OD has been complied with for those people needing to be relocated as a result
of the Project.

Claim 4: SERAC's interests have been, and continue to be, directly and adversely affected by
the failure of the Bank to comply with its policies, procedures and the credit agreement during
the implementation of the Project, namely OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction.

Response: The Project aims to improve drainage and thereby public health in Lagos. This is
consistent with our strategy of poverty reduction and human development in Nigeria. While the
Project is part of a total effort at poverty reduction, it does not have specific interventions on
poverty reduction. The people SERAC says it represents are no doubt poor, and the poor, who
overwhelmingly inhabit the low lying areas near major drains, will benefit from the Project.
Where they have been affected by the Project (i.e. the 286 people resettled), the application of
OD 4.30 is more relevant and is more specific.

Claim 5: SERAC's interests have been, and continue to be, directly and adversely affected by
the failure of the Bank to comply with its policies, procedures and the credit agreement during
the implementation of the Project, namely OD 4.20 on Gender Dimensions of Development.

Response: All people affected by the Project were treated equally without regard to gender.
Everyone needing resettlement or compensation as a result of Project activity received it without
regard to gender, and also without regard to whether or not they had a certificate of occupancy.

Claim 6: SERAC's interests have been, and continue to be, directly and adversely affected by
the failure of the Bank to comply with its policies, procedures and the credit agreement during
the implementation of the Project, namely OD 10.70 on Project Monitoring and Evaluation.

Response: Activities under the Project have been regularly monitored in the field in accordance
with OD 10.70 and as agreed during Project negotiations. Where shortcomings have been
identified, actions have been agreed to correct them. The Borrower's project management team
has primary responsibility for monitoring, and representatives are on site most days. They
regularly meet with community leaders and help resolve difficulties with the community and
contractors.

Claim 7: SERAC's interests have been, and continue to be, directly and adversely affected by
the failure of the Bank to comply with its policies, procedures and the credit agreement during
the implementation of the Project, namely OD 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment
Operations.

Response: Proper economic analysis of the Project was completed at appraisal. It is interesting
to note that a review by the Bank's Transportation, Water and Urban Development Department




                                                32

of the quality of economic analysis of a cohort of projects appraised around the same time as
this one made special mention of this Project as a good example.

Claim 8: SERAC's interests have been, and continue to be, directly and adversely affected by
the failure of the Bank to comply with its policies, procedures and the credit agreement during
the implementation of the Project, namely Articles of Agreement Article V, Section 1(g)

Response: In accordance with the relevant provision of the Articles of Agreement, the proceeds
of the Credit have been used for purposes of the project as evidenced by supervision reports and
certified by the audits of the Project Accounts.

Claim 9: SERAC's interests have been, and continue to be, directly and adversely affected by
the failure of the Bank to comply with its policies, procedures and the credit agreement during
the implementation of the Project, namely Credit Agreement 2517.

Response:     There has been compliance with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement.

Claim 10: The Bank has violated its policies, procedures, and the credit agreement because
the host communities were not consulted during the Project's planning and implementation
phases, or where consultation was held there was insufficient follow-up.

Response: Members of the community were consulted during the planning of the resettlement
exercise (see consultant report at Attachment 3) and during the urban upgrading study and pilot
project design (MEPP has videos of at least one such consultation). There has also been and
continues to be regular consultation between community members and MEPP representatives,
who are on site most days during implementation. Bank staff and consultants regularly talk to
community members during missions.

Claim 11: SERAC's interests and stakeholders' rights have been materially and adversely
affected as a result of the Bank's non compliance with its Operational Directives.

Response: We have complied with all relevant Operational Directives as evidenced by our
responses above and below.

Claim 12: The victims suffer and continue to suffer destruction of their homes, livelihoods,
communities and culture.

Response: This is not true of the Bank financed Project. We have no evidence that it has
happened in the neighborhoods around the Project.

Claim 13: Residents who have attempted to build makeshift homes in the neighborhoods
around the Project site have been constantly terrorized by armed security guards.

Response: This is not related to the Project. We have no evidence that it has happened in the
neighborhoods around the Project.



                                                33

Claim 14: The communities' stable access to utilities has been disrupted as a result of the
Project.

Response: The Project has not disrupted access to utilities.

Claim 15: Stagnant waste water has accumulated in the open channels which were
constructed under the Project.

Response: The Project area includes low lying swampy grounds which flood regularly when it
rains. Stagnant pools existed at various locations along the natural channels prior to the Project.
One of the primary objectives of the Project is to improve the situation by constructing effective
drainage channels. The natural flow of water cannot be stopped during construction activities,
and as part of the water management activities carried out by contractors during construction, it
is typically backed up in some sections and pumped or otherwise diverted to active drains.
Where the drains have been completed, water is flowing freely. For the drains to continue to
function as designed, regular maintenance will be required, including regular solid waste
disposal service, and community awareness programs to encourage communities not to use
drains as garbage receptacles.

Claim 16: Rather than deflood the communities, the channels have become a receptacle for
waste water which overflows regularly into living spaces and endangers the lives of residents.

Response: The natural channels (which predate the Project) are the primary receptacles for
waste water in Lagos. Where the engineered drains have been completed, the evidence is that
overflow into living spaces that was prevalent before the Project has been eliminated.

Claim 17: Many of the evictees have become squatters or live in distant places far removed
from their employment.

Response:     All the 286 people who were displaced under the Project were settled or
compensated in accordance with Bank policies. They were settled within 300 meters of their
original dwellings.

Claim 18:    Women, children and the disabled have suffered untold hardship under the
Project.

Response: This has not happened under the Project.

Claim 19: No relief measures have been applied to mitigate the suffering of members of the
population as mandated by the Bank's policies.

Response: Those to whom Bank policies apply, namely the 286 people resettled under the
project, have been properly resettled and compensated in accordance with Bank policies.




                                                34

Claim 20: The actions and omissions described in SERAC's request are the responsibility of
the Bank as they have resulted from a Project funded by it.

Response: The actions and omissions described did not result from the Project funded by the
Bank. Where actions were required under the Project, the Bank's policies were complied with.

Claim 21: The Bank's responses to SERAC's complaint have been unsatisfactory.

Response:    The Bank has gone out of its way to respond to SERAC's communications,
including visiting its offices and facilitating communication between SERAC and the proper
Lagos State authorities. The Bank's responses have been factual, whether verbal or written.
SERAC, in its further communications to others has misquoted the Bank, to an extent which
suggests an unwillingness to believe facts about the Project provided to them by the Bank.

Claim 22:     The victims of demolitions have been neither resettled, rehabilitated nor
compensated for their losses. They have not received any remedies for the physical and
mental pain inflicted on them by armed security agencies.

Response: Those to whom Bank policies apply, namely the 286 people resettled under the
project, have been properly resettled and compensated in accordance with Bank policies.
The claim may refer to an action outside the Project of which we are unaware.               Our
investigations show that the additional 25 structures at Ijora Oloye (refer Paragraph 14) were
removed at the initiative of the community after Project work was completed in the area.

Claim 23: No official has been questioned or punished for these violations of the local
populations' rights.

Response: The Bank financed Project has not violated anybody's rights. In any case, the Bank
does not have the authority to discipline officials of the Lagos State Government.

Claim 24: SERAC and the communities remain uncertain and apprehensive as to when
future evictions are scheduled.

Response: No evictions were carried out under the Project without proper resettlement or
compensation. There is currently no new ground to be broken under the Project, which closes in
March 1999, so identification of additional affected buildings is unlikely.

Claim 25: SERAC and the communities remain uncertain and apprehensive as to when
uncompleted or abandoned components of the Project will be completed.

Response: No part of the Project has been abandoned. Some parts are incomplete, and some
work is proceeding more slowly than originally planned because of the difficult site conditions.
In the specific case of Ijora Badia, the contractor elected to change from construction in a
downstream direction to construction in an upstream direction, to improve his access conditions,
not an unusual procedure for civil engineering works under difficult conditions such as have
occurred under the Project. This resulted in one point appearing to have been abandoned,



                                                 35

whereas in fact the contractor is working towards it from the opposite end of the drain. We
would not pretend that the environmental conditions surrounding the drains are pleasant, either
before or during construction work, as many have been receiving waste matter for years. The
stagnancy of the water will disappear, and the overflow which was previously prevalent will be
eliminated, on completion, as it already has in areas where work has been completed.

Claim 26: The Bank expressed a vote of confidence in the Project without first visiting the
host communities or meeting with community leaders.

Response: Bank missions visited the project sites and communities during project planning and
implementation. The Bank has regularly visited the Project including site visits to those areas
where work is ongoing, including meeting with community members. However it does not have
the resources to observe every activity that happens, and relies on project units and their
consultants for detailed monitoring. We believe that this has been satisfactory and sufficient, and
that the complaints raised are not true of the Project.

Claim 27: Meetings with SERAC were held with less than a few hour's notice and often one
day before the Bank officials were scheduled to depart from Nigeria.

Response: Bank staff and consultants have met with SERAC on at least five occasions. Our
reply of July 15, 1997 to their first letter to Mr. Wolfensohn offered to meet with them in Lagos
during our planned next mission in September 1997. Unfortunately we did not hear their
acceptance of this offer until the last day of our mission, at which time the Bank's Team Leader,
after failing to make telephone contact, visited SERAC's Executive Director in his office in
Lagos. The Executive Director subsequently visited the Bank's Country Director in Washington
in November 1997 for a meeting that lasted almost two hours. In February this year, a mission
en route from Abuja to Washington managed to arrange for SERAC to meet with it and Lagos
Government officials to facilitate communication between them. SERAC did not follow up on
that meeting as was agreed. In March this year our consultant met for several hours with
SERAC's Executive Director, and she (the consultant) felt that he was happy with the
understanding he had received of what was being undertaken under the Project; they were unable
to visit the site as fuel was not available in Lagos at the time. In May this year our consultant
(new consultant) visited SERAC's office and, two days later as SERAC requested, visited Ijora
Badia and Ijora Oloye with SERAC to interview selected community members; this and the
subsequent visit in July revealed that the structures SERAC claimed to have been demolished
were in fact demolished after the Project drain was constructed (Refer paragraph 14 above).

SERAC's telephone calls to the Bank's Country Director in Washington, stated as between May
28 and June 8, 1998 were returned on June 5, 1998 by his office because he was departing on
mission to Nigeria.

Claim 28: Although they received no prior notice of the visit of SERAC and our consultant on
May 28, 1998, community leaders complained of violation of their human rights under the
Project.




                                                  36

Response: Our own visit, also undertaken without notice in July, received no complaint of
violation of human rights, but a single complaint about access having been cut, as indicated
above. This appeared to have been fully resolved (paragraph 15).

Claim 29: There has (as of June 16, 1998) been no feedback to SERAC of the results of the
consultant's mission which concluded June 5, 1998.

Response: The report was submitted to the Bank's Abuja office by the consultant on June 25,
1998, after SERAC had submitted the Request for Inspection. It is at Attachment 7.




                                              37

