Page  1
Page 1 of 3 
THE INSPECTION PANEL 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5200 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA 
Fax : (202) 522-0916 
 
 
       Internet:  http:\www.worldbank.org
 
 
IPN REQUEST RQ98/3 
 
  
       
 June 
25, 
1998 
 
NOTICE OF REGISTRATION 
Dear  Sir: 
 
Re: Request for Inspection
 
– Nigeria:  Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project  
(IDA Credit No. 2517-0)
 
 
 
The Inspection Panel (the “Panel”) received on June 17, 1998 a Request for Inspection (the 
“Request”) dated June 16, 1998 from an organization called the Social and Economic Right Action Center 
(SERAC) representing themselves, individuals, families, and community development associations (the 
“Requesters”).  The Request relates to the above-mentioned project.  The primary objective of the project is 
to improve health standards and living conditions in areas of Lagos subject to regular flooding and to 
improve the economic functioning of the city by improving stormwarter drainage in priority areas of the city, 
and improving drain maintenance procedures.  Physical components of the project include the rehabilitation, 
regrading, clearing and aligning of existing stormwater drains in three areas of the city.  
 
The Request claims that the rights/interests of slum communities in the project area have been, are 
being, and will likely continue to be, materially and adversely affected as a direct result of the International 
Development Association’s (“IDA”) omissions and failures in violation of its policies and procedures.  
According to the Request people affected have suffered and continue to suffer destruction of their homes, 
livelihoods communities and culture.  Over 2,000 poor people have already been forced out of their homes 
and businesses without compensation or resettlement and thousands of others face an immediate threat of 
eviction.  Contrary to the project’s objective to uplift the living standards of the slum communities, the 
Request alleges it has exacerbated those conditions.  Open drainage channels constructed under the 
project, rather than de-flood the communities, have become receptacles for waste water that overflows 
regularly into living spaces and endangers the health and lives of residents.  Evictees have been forced to 
become squatters or live in distant places far away from employment thus further impoverishing an already 
poor and vulnerable population.  Women, children and the disabled have suffered untold hardships. 
 
The Request claims the harm results from IDA’s failures to comply with Credit Agreement No. 2517 
and various provisions of IDA policies and procedures, set forth, inter alia, in the following:  
 
• 
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30) 
• 
Poverty Reduction (OD 4.15) 
• 
Gender Dimensions of Development (OD 4.20) 
• 
Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations (OD 10.04) 
• 
 Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01) 
• 
 Project Monitoring and Evaluation (OD 10.70) 
• 
 Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations (OP/BP 10.04) 
• 
Article V Section 1(g) IDA Articles of Agreement 
Page  2
Page 2 of 3 
 
SERAC has submitted original copies of authorization of representation signed by directly affected 
people, who have requested that their names be made available only to the Inspection Panel Members, but 
otherwise remain confidential. 
 
 
In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel’s Operating Procedures (the “Operating 
Procedures”), I am notifying you that I have on June 25, 1998, which is also the date of the dispatch of this 
notice, registered the Request in the Inspection Panel Register. 
 
All communications with the Requesters in connection with the Request will be sent to Mr. Felix C. 
Morka at the address listed below. 
 
In accordance with paragraph 18 of IDA Resolution No. 93-6 and paragraph 18(d) of the Operating 
Procedures, IDA Management is hereby notified that it must provide the Panel no later than July 27, 1998 
with written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the relevant policies and procedures in 
the implementation of the above-referenced project.  The subject matter the Management must deal with in 
its official response to the Request is set out in paragraph 33 of the Operating Procedures.
1
  After receiving 
the Management response, the Panel will, as mandated by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, “determine 
whether the Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 12 to 14 and shall make a 
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be investigated.” 
After  
 
The Request has been assigned  IPN Request Number RQ98/3. 
 
  
Sincerely 
yours,  
 
  
 
Alvaro Umaña Queseda 
  
Chairman 
 
 
 
                                                
 
1
   The Panel may proceed to recommend that there should not be an investigation, if, on the basis of the information 
contained in the Request and Management’s response, the Panel is satisfied that Management has done the following: 
 
(a) 
dealt appropriately with the subject matter of the Request; and 
 
(b) 
demonstrated clearly that it has followed the required policies and procedures; or 
 
(c) 
admitted that it has failed to follow the required policies and procedures but has provided a 
statement of specific remedial actions and a time-table for implementing them, which will, in the judgement of the 
Panel, adequately correct the failure any adverse effects such failure has already caused. 
 
Page  3
Page 3 of 3 
Notice of Registration                                                                       
June 25, 1998 
 
 
TO: 
Felix C. Morka, Esq. 
 Executive 
Director 
 
Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC) 
 
P.O. Box 13616 
Ikeja-Lagos 
NIGERIA  
 
 
TO: 
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn  
 
 
 
 President 
 
 
International Development Association  
 Room 
E-1227 
     
 
 
[by hand against confirmation] 
 
 
cc: 
The Executive Directors 
International Development Association 
  
 
Joanne Salop, Director
 MDOPS 
  
Mona Wasfy, MDOPS
 
