x 0;
CREDIT NUMBER 2517 UNI
Development Credit Agreement
(Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL JEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      U      30                 , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2517 UNI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated Sut vo                   , 1993 between the
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out with the Borrower's
assistance by Lagos State of Nigeria (Lagos State);
(C)   the Borrower will, as part of such assistance, relend to
Lagos State the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Japan Interna-
tional Cooperation Agency (JICA) a grant (the JICA Grant) to assist
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the JICA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between JICA
and the Borrower;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia of
the foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and Lagos
State;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the reL_pective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Lagos State of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered between the Borrower and Lagos State pursua,at to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement;
(e)   "Drainage  Maintenance  Account" means    the  account
referred to in Section 2.01 (c) (i) of the Project Agreement; and
(f)   "Lagos State Waste Management Authority" means the Lagos
State Waste Management Authority referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of
the Project Agreement which was established, and is operating, as a
body corporate under the laws of Lagos State.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-four million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 44,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures maJe (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Projeot described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain, or cause to be opened and maintained, in dollars


﻿-3-
a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding 2rom time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing


﻿-4-
December 1, 2003 and ending June 1, 2028. Each installment to, and
including the installment payable on June 1, 2013, shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such.principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement shall, within the limits of its constitutional powers,


﻿-5-
cause Lagos State to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Lagos State therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all actions, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Lagos State to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
Lagos State under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Lagos State, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, including
provisions in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement requiring Lagos State
to:
(i)   pay annual interest at the variable rate payable,
on the date of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, on
loans made by the Bank to its Borrowers;
(ii) repayment of principal in 20 years (including
five years of grace); and
(iii) assume any foreign exchange risks on proceeds of
the Credit relent to it.
(c)   The Borrower shall: (i) review jointly with Lagos State
and with the Association, by July 31 of each year, the progress
achieved in the execution of the Project; (ii) no later than
July 31, 1995, carry out jointly with the Association and Lagos
State a mid-term review of the Project to: (A) assess the overall
progress made in the carrying out of the Project against an action
plan agreed upon with the Association; and (B) review the management
of the Project, and Lagos State's performance against the perfor-
mance indicators agreed with the Association; and (iii) promptly
thereafter take all action necessary to facilitate the carrying out
by Lagos State of the recommendations of the reviews referred to
above.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and-to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by Lagos State pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accor-
dance with sound accounting practices, records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that    all records   (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made;
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts refearred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
tors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls in-


﻿-7-
volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Lagos State shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Lagos State
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of Lagos State Waste Management Authority or for the
suspension of its operations;
(d)   Subject to paragraph (e) of this Section:
(i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any loan, credit or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project (in-
cluding the JICA Grant) shall have been suspend-
ed, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof; and
(e)   paragraph (d) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its


﻿-8-
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur subject in the case of
the event specified in paragraph (d) of that Section to the proviso
of paragraph (e) thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the furnishing to the Association by Lagos State of
draft bidding documents, satisfactory to the Association, for the
contracting to private sector contractors of maintenance of existing
drainage under the Project;
(b)   the employment by Lagos State of consultants to
supervise construction and assist with the carrying out of the
drainage maintenance program, included in the Project;
(c)   the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   the issuance by Lagos State to the Borrower of the
written instructions referred to in Section 2.01 (b) (iii) of the
Project Agreement authorizing: (i) the deduction from the Federation
Account of Lagos State's counterpart contributions to Project costs;
and (ii) payment into the Project Account of the said counterpart
contributions; and


﻿-9-
(e)   the payment by Lagos State into the Project Account of
the initial amount referred to in Section 2.01 (b) (iii) (A) of the
Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meanine of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Lagos State, and is legally binding upon Lagos State in
accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Lagos State, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Lagos State in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Honourable Secretary.
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 14
Garki, Abuja
Nigeria
Cable address:                      Telex:
FEDMINFIN                       21248 (ITT)
Abuja


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                     197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By1/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                /     o&LA edVK
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
CategorV               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                 100% of foreign
(excluding                                 expenditures and
drain                                      55% of local
maintenance):                              expenditures
(a) Apapa                 7,300,000
Drainage
(b) Surelere              7,100,000
Channel
(c) Lagos Island          4,000,000
Drainage
(d) Lagos Mainland        6,800,000
Drainage
(e) Transfer Station        900,000
and Landfill
(f) Urban Renewal         1,300,000
demonstration


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(2) Drain                      3,700,000        100% of foreign
maintenance                                 expenditures;
and 40% of local
expenditures,
until December 31,
1995; 60% of
foreign
expenditures and
40% of local
expenditures, until
December 31,
1996; and 40%
thereafter
(3) Goods and                  2,800,000        100% of foreign
equipment                                  expenditures and
70% of local
expenditures
(4) Training,                  6,400,000        100%
technical
assistance
and construction
supervision
(5) Unallocated                4,200,000
TOTAL                    44,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 13 -
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b)   expenditures under Category (1) (a) and (b) unless Lagos
State has: (i) employed a consultant acceptable to the Association
to prepare plans satisfactory to the Association for the resettle-
ment of persons likely to be affected by the following components of
Part A of the Project, namely: (A) the upgrading, realigning and
lining of the Apapa Drains; and (B) rehabilitation of the main
Surelere channel; (ii) furnished to the Association said plans
(including a detailed implementation schedule); and (iii) progress
satisfactory to the Association has been achieved in the implementa-
tion of the resettlement plans prior to the award of construction
contracts for the drainage scheme or for the Surelere channel; and
(c)   expenditures under Category (2) unless the Association
is satisfied that Lagos State has opened the Drainage Maintenance
Account referred to in Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement and
has deposited therein an initial amount of Naira 9,000,000.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist the city of
Lagos to function effectively as an economic center; (ii) improve
stormwater drainage in the areas of the city subject to flooding;
(iii) prepare for plans, feasibility studies and designs required
for the upgrading of. urban services and the improvement of human
waste and waste water disposal in Lagos; and (iv) assist Lagos State
Waste Management Authority to strengthen and improve its organiza-
tion and system development.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Improving Storm Water Drainage and Drain Maintenance
1.    Rehabilitation of the main Surelere channel including: (i) the
redredging and lining of parts of the channel; and (ii) the
construction of an access road and a major culvert crossing of the
Federal Highway.
2.    Construction of primary and secondary lined drainage channels,
covered box conduits and culverts in the following three areas of
central mainland Lagos, namely, Oshodi/Expressway, City Way and
Lagos University Teaching Hospital areas.
3.    Upgrading and augmenting the highest priority existing drains
to provide an adequate system of drainage for Lagos Island includ-
ing: (i) improving the existing main outfalls; and (ii) replacement
of concrete channels and culverts.
4.    Upgrading, realigning and lining of highest priority drains in
Apapa, the port and industrial area of Lagos.
5.    The carrying out of a regular maintenance program by private
sector contractors under contracts satisfactory to the Association
including the establishment of a drainage maintenance account to
ensure timely availability of funds for the program.
6.    Construction of a transfer station and provision of bulk
carriers and additional spare parts for the Lagos State Waste
Management Authority.


﻿- 15 -
Part B:     Technical Assistance
1.    Development of sanitation strategy, preparation of plans,
feasibility studies and designs for future developments in sanita-
tion including: (i) conventional sewerage system (where appropri-
ate); and (ii) supply of laboratory equipment for pollution
monitoring.
2.    Assisting the Urban Renewal Board to: (i) review its charter
and plan its development strategy; (ii) prepare an urban renewal
project; and (iii) undertake a demonstration project.
3.    Provision of technical assistance for the strengthening and
improvement of revenue billing and collection systems.
4.    Assisting the development of a mapping ability and Land
Information System for Lagos State.
5.    Assisting the Lagos State Waste Management Authority to
strengthen and develop its organization and the carrying out of
engineering studies for future waste disposal sites.
6.    Assisting Lagos State's regular drainage maintenance program
and preparation of designs for future urban investment projects.
7.    The carrying out of a training program to upgrade and
strengthen the skills of Lagos State personnel participating in the
Project in all aspects of drainage and sanitation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" meats Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an      amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
quests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 17 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such p,.,ment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount      of the   Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been


﻿- 18 -
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


