Document of                 FILE COPY
The World Bank                        L
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2689-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
April 17, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979                    January  1980
Unit          '    Malagasy Franc (FMG)        -      Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00       -    FMG 212.72                  -      FMG 201.91
FMG 1,000     u   US$4.70                      -      US$4.95
FMG 1,000,000 -    US$4,701                    .      US$4,952
(The cost estimates are based on US$1 - FMG 210)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
OMNIS     -      Office Militaire National pour les Industries Strategiques
KRAOMA    -      Malagasy Chromite Mines
SOLIMA    -      Malagasy Petroleum Company
JIRAMA    -      Malagasy Electricity and Water Corporation
SECREN    -      Malagasy Ship Repair Enterprise
GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASGAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:           Office Militaire National pour les Industries
Strategiques (OMNIS)
Amount:                US$12.5 million
Terms:                 Standard
Onlending Terms:       The Government would make the proceeds of the Credit
available to OMNIS as a non-reimbursable contribution.
Project                (i)  Objective:  The project would support the
Description:                Government's efforts to develop a domestic
supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning
of the energy sector.
(ii)  Main Project Components:  The project components
are:
(a)  consultant services (107 man-months) to
compile and review geological and geo-
physical data and to supervise seismic
surveys;
(b)  a 12-months program of onshore reconnaissance
seismic work;
(c)  engineering study for a heavy oil pilot
plant at Tsimiroro;
(d)  consultant services (18 man-months) for
energy planning and development and
related training of local staff.
(iii)  Benefits:  The project would help attract private
capital to undertake oil exploration in Madagascar.
If the search for oil is successful, the project
would contribute to meeting part of Madagascar's
petroleum needs from domestic sources within ten
years. It would also improve the planning and
implementation capacity of OMNIS, the Government
agency responsible for energy development.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iv) Risks: There is a risk that the geophysical
data acquired would be inadequate, but this
should be mitigated by provision of technical
assistance in supervising the contractor.
The major risk is that the geological data
collected would be insufficiently attractive
to generate industry interest in applying for
exploration permits. Given present indications
and energy prices, these risks are acceptable.
Foreign       Local       Total
----------(US$'000) --------
Estimated Costs:
Assistance to Energy Planning                      160           40        200
Assistance to OMNIS                              2,615          130     2,745
Training                                            75            5         80
Reconnaissance Seismic Survey                   4,500         2,700     7,200
Tsimiroro Heavy Oil Engineering Study           1,300           300     1,600
Geochemical and Laboratory Equipment               150          150        150
Baseline Cost                              8,800        3,175    11,975
Physical Contingencies                             640          270       910
Price Contingencies                             1,260           455     1,715
Total Contingencies                        1,900          725      2,625
Total Project Costs                            10,700        3,900    14,600
(no customs duties or taxes applicable)
Financing Plan:
IDA                               10,700        1,800    12,500
Government                           -          2,100      2,100
TOTAL                             10.700        3,900    14,600
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY   FY 80      FY 81      FY 82      FY 83
…______----…(US$000)        …
Annual                       200       4,120      5,620      2,560
Cumulative                   200       4,320      9,940    12,500
Rate of Return:       N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             N.A.
Map:   IBRD 14787



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for the equiva-
lent of US$12.5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a petroleum
exploration promotion project. The proceeds of the credit would be passed
on by the Government to the Office Militaire National pour les Industries
Strategiques (OMNIS) as a non-reimbursable contribution.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Madagascar - Recent Economic Developments and
Future Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 24,
1979. A summary of recent economic developments is set out below. Country
data sheets are provided in Annex 1. The next economic mission to Madagascar
is scheduled for May 1980.
3.        With a population of 8.3 million and a GNP per capita estimated at
US$250 in 1978, Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world. It
is predominantly an agricultural country and 85 percent of its population
live in rural areas with a per capita income of about US$120 per annum. In
many areas the standard of living is at the subsistence level. Although the
country is sparsely populated (an average of 14 inhabitants per square kilo-
meter), there is great pressure on cultivable land in some regions. Owing
mainly to different ecological conditions, the highlands are more advanced
than the coastal areas, and the south is particularly poor with a harsh, arid
climate and infertile soils. The east coast is rich agriculturally, but crops
are frequently devastated by cyclones. Internal migration is common and has
accelerated as improved roads have provided access to new areas. However,
poor roads remain a major constraint to development; many of the main highways
are not passable during the rainy season in a country where production centers
may be as far as 800 kilometers from main points of consumption. Many areas
are virtually cut off from the rest of the country for several months each year.
4.        Over the past few years the growth of the economy continued to be
slow and uneven. Having risen but marginally in 1975, real GDP fell in 1976
by 2.9 percent owing to a slight decline in agricultural production and a
steep drop of about 14 percent in manufacturing output. GDP is estimated to
have increased by 3.9 percent in 1977; even so, output of goods and services
showed only a slight increase over the period since 1974; and, with population
increasing by about 2.5 percent annually, per capita GDP fell by about 5



percent. Extensive drought adversely affected economic growth in 1978; but
the reported resurgence of economic activity the following year is likely to
have raised the real GDP growth rate above the trend average. Budgetary in-
vestment outlays were stepped up considerably after 1975; but the investment
rate has generally varied around 14 percent as the sharp rise in Government
capital expenditures was largely offset by a substantial decline in private
investment. The savings rate also continued to be fairly stable and fluc-
tuated around 10-11 percent. The resource gap as a consequence has been
maintained at a low level.
5.        Agricultural production has not recorded any marked growth over
the last few years. Even over the longer period since 1970 it has increased
at an annual rate of only about 1 percent. Despite periodic good crops, paddy
production did not keep pace with demand; and production in 1977, estimated
at 2.0 million tons, was only about 7 percent higher than in 1970. Groundnut
production, after rising significantly in 1976, fell back to 47,000 tons in
1977, while meat production did not register any significant rise. Imports of
rice and edible oils have increased to 105,000 tons and 16,000 tons, respec-
tively, and were about three to four times as large in 1977 as in 1970-71.
Sugarcane production continued to stagnate as there has been no addition to
the refinery capacity for several years. Among other cash and export crops,
coffee production, except for a 6 percent drop in 1976, has been rising
steadily, reaching some 89,000 tons in 1977. However, raw cotton production,
which had been increasing fairly fast, levelled off after 1975 due to shortages
of fertilizers and pesticides; vanilla output declined, while pepper more than
doubled. Hit badly by the drought in 1978, agricultural output is nevertheless
expected to have risen significantly last year, although some major export
crops, such as vanilla and coffee, encountered production problems.
6.        The development of the industrial sector after independence in 1960
was encouraged by promotional measures such as fiscal incentives, protection
against competition from imports and provision of institutional term financing.
Industrial production now accounts for about 14 percent of GDP. Despite
significant diversification of capacity that has taken place, manufacturing is
still dominated by food processing, textiles and apparel industries. Together
they account for close to 70 percent of the manufacturing output. Among other
industries the important ones include tobacco manufactures, chemicals (mainly
soap and matches), petroleum refining and production of construction materials.
7.        Industrial growth since 1972 has been erratic.  Following a marked
9.3 percent rise in 1974 the industrial production index declined again in
1975 and 1976; and despite recovering somewhat in 1977 it remained below the
level attained in 1974. Within the manufacturing sector itself, however,
performance varied between different industry groups. While the output of
processed foods and textiles followed a stagnant or a declining trend after
1974, some of the comparatively minor industries, such as chemicals, tobacco
manufactures, rubber and paper products maintained a fairly steady growth.
However, more recently, the industrial sector has reportedly shown signs of
greater dynamism and more rapid expansion.



- 3 -
8.        Over the past few years a number of industrial establishments con-
sidered to be of national importance were taken over by the State. Some
unprofitable enterprises facing closure were also nationalized to prevent
layoff of workers. In some other cases the State assumed majority control.
The important foreign-owned industrial enterprises that were nationalized
include the oil refinery (January 1976), the power and water supply company
(January 1976) and two sugar firms (December 1976). At present, the State
owns, or has acquired majority participation in all major industrial units
employing a thousand or more workers.
9.        Madagascar's fiscal situation deteriorated considerably after 1975,
due to a sudden and sharp rise in current budget expenditure and Government
spending on capital investment. Current expenditures rose steeply with the
rising wage bill of the Government and increasing outlay on maintenance; and
the current budget surplus, which used to be substantial, dwindled as revenues
failed to keep pace with the growth of expenditures. Furthermore, as Govern-
ment intensified its efforts to raise investment levels and stimulate the
economy, public investment expenditure rose from 11.2 billion FMG in 1975 to
20.5 billion FMG in 1977. The outlays on the consumer rice subsidy, although
they declined in 1976, rose again to 3.6 billion FMG in the subsequent year.
The overall Treasury deficit, which more than doubled to 20 billion FMG
between 1975 and 1977, was financed increasingly through recourse to Central
Bank advances. In 1978, the overall deficit has been larger than the projected
16.1 billion FMG owing to underestimation of expenditure on personnel and the
settlement of payments deferred from 1977 on the one hand, and shortfalls in
revenues on the other. The fiscal situation is likely to have worsened
considerably in 1979, owing partly to the increasing emphasis on budgetary
expenditure for capital development. The Government is now said to be seeking
ways and means of reducing both recurrent and capital expenditures.
10.       Monetary and credit developments since 1975 have been influenced
mainly by the Government's deficit financing needs.  Outstanding domestic
credit went up by more than 50 percent to 126 billion FMG during 1975-77, due,
for the most part, to the steep and continued rise in net claims on Government.
As a result, money supply, which had been increasing moderately, rose by 15
percent in 1976 and as much as 25 percent in 1977.  Despite this monetary
expansion and little growth in the output of goods and services, the annual
inflation rate has been moderate -- about 9-10 percent during 1976-77, largely
because of increasing demand for cash balances and the consequent accumulation
of idle funds. Similar monetary trends have persisted subsequently and infla-
tionary pressures might even have strengthened.
11.       The balance of payments situation which had been deteriorating
showed a substantial improvement in 1976, when a surplus of 2 billion FMG was
recorded; but the payments surplus in 1977 is now estimated to have been much
smaller. The turnaround in the balance of payments situation occurring in
1976 is attributable more to exogenous factors than to any significant im-
provement in the structure of the balance of payments. Trade surpluses were
recorded in 1976 and 1977 as a result of (a) a sharp rise in prices of exports,
particularly coffee, which reversed the continuing deterioration in the terms



of trade, and (b) the imposition of more strict quantitative restrictions on
imports in 1976. There was a substantial decline in the availability of
imports after 1975. On the other hand, the volume of exports dropped sharply
in 1976, and continued to fall in 1977, while there was no lasting reduction
in the services deficit, nor any sustained rise in capital inflows. More
recently the balance of payments position has been increasingly strained by
a number of adverse developments: production shortfalls and transportation
problems affecting some important export crops, food imports needed to
replenish stocks after the drought, international inflation, rising energy
prices and the impact on the demand for imports of high levels of public
investment. The balance of payments is expected to show a very large
overall deficit in 1979.
12.       The growth and development of the Malagasy economy have over a
fairly long period been affected by constraints resulting from shortage of
savings, slow growth in markets for major primary exports and low productivity
of traditional agriculture. The country, however, is relatively well-endowed
with natural resources and has a well-established administrative set-up. With
appropriate policies and adequate external capital assistance, medium and
long-term prospects for the economy should be favorable. There is consider-
able scope for the expansion of agriculture and livestock production. Only
about a fifth of the arable land is at present being cultivated, and fer-
tilizer consumption, estimated to be some 14,000 tons in 1976, is still rather
small. The irrigation potential has as yet been only partially exploited.
The outlook for further development of manufacturing based on locally avail-
able materials is promising. On the whole, sustained growth at an average
annual rate of 4-5 percent appears to be feasible.
13.       The Government has been taking far-reaching steps to strengthen
national control of the economy. As a part of this process, economic and
financial institutions, productive sectors, foreign trade and internal market-
ing have undergone extensive reorganization. Inspired by the basic needs
approach, the Government has also formulated long-term development objectives
which envisage a more egalitarian income distribution and satisfaction of
specified minimum consumption requirements of the population by the end of
the century. The Government also stresses national self-sufficiency and the
eventual establishment of an industrial base large and diversified enough to
meet the domestic demand for basic equipment and other essential consumer
goods.
14.       A Three-Year Plan, which is to be the first of a series of medium-
term investment programs designed to attain these long-run development objec-
tives, was launched in 1978. The Plan envisages overall expansion of the
economy at an average annual rate of 5.5 percent during 1978-80. The rate of
investment is projected to rise to 17.1 percent of GDP by 1980 from the Plan
estimate of 11.5 percent in 1977. The savings rate is to be stepped up,
partly through the mobilization of additional budgetary resources for capital
development. But about a quarter of the investment outlays during the Plan
period is expected to be financed through external loans and grants. Greater
emphasis will be placed on the development of food crops; and household con-
sumption is targeted to rise, in real terms, by 3.6 percent per year. The
Plan accords high priority to manufacturing, particularly basic industry
and processing of agricultural raw materials.



15.       Madagascar's external public debt, outstanding and disbursed,
amounted to US$258.6 million at the end of 1978. Somewhat over 40 percent
of it (US$111.3 million) was owed to the Bank Group, and as much as 23 per-
cent to IDA alone. The Bank Group share of debt service in 1978 was 36
percent. Among bilateral donors France and the Federal Republic of Germany
are the most prominent, each holding about 12 percent of the disbursed debt.
Japan and the People's Republic of China rank next in importance (7 and 4
percent respectively) followed by the USA (2 percent). Suppliers' credits
and commercial borrowing (9.4 percent of the disbursed debt) have been rela-
tively unimportant. The Government had been generally prudent with regard
to external debt, and outstanding disbursed debt at the end of 1977 amounted
to only 11 percent of GNP as compared to the average of 25 percent for low-
income countries. Because of relatively limited reliance on external assist-
ance and concessionary terms of most loans and credits, debt service payments
have remained small. The estimated debt service ratio of 3.1 percent in 1977
was marginally lower than in 1970. However, since 1978 the debt service ratio
has tended to increase rapidly, mainly as a result of increasing foreign
borrowing on commercial terms by the public sector.
16.       The Bank should continue to be prepared to contribute to local cost
financing. In terms of performance, Madagascar appears to have performed
about as well as other countries at the same level of development encounter-
ing similar constraints. Its domestic savings rate, 12 percent in 1977,
compares favorably with the level in most of the countries in the low income
group, indicating that Madagascar has made a reasonable effort to mobilize
domestic savings. But as savings have fallen far short of the country's
requirements, despite resource mobilization efforts and restrictions on
imports, the country's balance of payments and reserve position have become
vulnerable.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
17.       Outstanding IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$240.19 million
and Bank loans total US$31.80 million. About 54 percent of Bank Group lending
has been for transport, 14 percent for electric power, 24 percent for agricul-
ture and 8 percent for education. IFC's first investment was made in March
1977 with an equity investment of US$290,000 and a loan of US$11.0 million for
the expansion of a textile mill; other projects in leather and ferrochrome are
under consideration. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits, and IFC investments as of April 2, 1980, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
18.       The priority given to transport investment recognizes that improve-
ment in communications is a precondition for Madagascar's development. Four
projects have been for the construction of all-weather highway links between
the island's different regions; a fifth highway project for road maintenance
was signed on July 30, 1979. There has been a project for improving
Madagascar's main port of Toamasina (Tamatave) and one for modernizing the
railway line between Toamasina and the capital, Antananarivo; a second project



supporting the railways' modernization efforts was signed on June 25, 1979.
Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of two livestock development
projects, two irrigation projects and a forestry project. A credit for an
agricultural development project in the Mangoky delta was signed on May 17,
1979. Bank Group involvement in the utility sector includes the financing
by IDA of part of the cost of the large Andekaleka hydroelectric project for
which substantial bilateral assistance was secured by the Government. Addi-
tional financing of US$10 million to help cover a doubling in cost of civil
works was approved by the Executive Directors on January 29, 1980. A first
credit of US$5.0 million for an industrial bank project (BNI) was approved
by the Executive Directors on January 29, 1980, while a US$20.5 credit for a
water supply and sanitation project for the city of Antananarivo was approved
on April 1, 1980.
19.       In future lending to Madagascar, we expect agriculture to absorb a
larger share of Bank Group lending, in line with Government strategy stated
in its long-term development plan where it is recognized that expansion of
agricultural production is a prerequisite to the development of the country.
A pipeline of possible projects has been identified in a sector memorandum
discussed with the Government in mid-1979 and is reproduced on page 16 of
Annex I to the Madagascar Economic Report dated October 24, 1979. In addition
to the proposed project, IDA is assisting the Government in preparing an
agricultural credit project, two rural development projects, a small-scale
irrigation project, a third livestock project and a second forestry project.
We will also continue to support Government investment in such areas as
education, urban development, roads, railways and ports; an audit project
is also being prepared. We expect the Government to seek cofinancing from
external lenders for some of the projects, and we intend to assist the Govern-
ment in its efforts to mobilize new external sources of financing.
20.       In the past, problems have arisen in the course of execution of
several projects. There were delays in execution, cost overruns and defi-
ciencies in institution building, especially in agriculture. The Morondava
Project had to be substantially reduced, and the Government has prepared a
plan of action to deal with the remaining problems. The main aspects of this
plan include a redefinition of the implementing agency's (SODEMO) responsibi-
lities and financial structure, completion and audit of overdue accounts,
and preparation of an investment program and budget for development of the
Morondava area. Implementation of the plan of action has started and is being
closely monitored by the Government and the Association. Implementation of
the Village Livestock Project has improved substantially, although the dis-
bursements remain slow. The first three highway projects have been completed.
The fourth project is still being implemented; the road construction component
is nearly completed and the maintenance studies have been completed. However,
there has been a delay in the start of the recommended highway maintenance
training program for personnel in the Ministry of Public Works. Since training
local staff is essential, Government has agreed that training consultants will
be employed and that construction of training facilities would begin in the
first half of 1980.



21.       Since the start of our program in Madagascar two major construction
projects which included technical assistance have been completed and audited
by the Operations Evaluation Department. The audit report No. 2143 of July 27,
1978 concluded that the Madagascar Third Highway Project was well justified
and had a good rate of return despite the substantial cost overrun experienced
by the project. The audit confirmed that training of local staff and adequate
provisions of Government funds were essential factors for a successful road
maintenance program. Report No. 2299 of December 22, 1978 concluded that
the physical objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily
achieved, but pointed out that the institutional objective was not accomplished
during project implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the
port authority and the failure of the technical assistance component.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources, Supply and Demand
22.       Madagascar's energy resources are large and diverse but essentially
undeveloped. No hydrocarbons are exploited at present although past explora-
tion encountered oil and gas shows in the western part of the island and
there are sizeable deposits of heavy oil and bituminous sandstones. Deposits
of lignite, steam coal (with extractable reserves of some 80 million metric tons)
and radioactive minerals have also been discovered. There is a considerable
hydro potential estimated at about 3,500 MW. Forests covering about 125,000
km are the major energy source but their indiscriminate use is leading to
rapid deforestation in some areas. Sugar refineries in the northern part of
the country use bagasse for steam and power generation. Renewable energy
sources such as solar and wind energy might be significant, but they are not
commercially utilized.
23.       Energy consumption is still low--estimated at 142 kg of oil equiva-
lent per capita in 1978--and has grown by less than 2 percent per annum
throughout the 1970s. There is heavy reliance on traditional fuels, primarily
wood and charcoal, which meet nearly two thirds of requirements. Petroleum
imports, amounting to US$53 million, or 15 percent of total exports in 1978,
account for about 30 percent of total energy consumption. The remainder is
provided by hydropower and bagasse (3 percent) each, and imported steam coal
and coke (1 percent). Electricity production and distribution are still at an
early stage of development. Total installed capacity is about 160 MW of which
only about one third is hydro-based. With the completion around 1982 of the
Andekaleka project, installed hydropower capacity is expected to double to
100 MW. Power consumption, 325 GWh or 40 kWh per capita in 1978, accounts for
some 8 percent of final energy consumption.
Sectoral Institutions and Policies
24.       Institutions.  A number of government institutions participate in
energy policy-making. The Presidency of the Republic supervises the Office
Militaire National pour les Industries Strategiques (OMNIS), the entity in



- 8 -
charge of hydrocarbon and radioactive minerals exploration and development.
The Ministry of Economy and Commerce's responsibilities include: regulating
exploration and development of coal and lignite as well as of hydro resources;
supervising the State energy enterprises JIRAMA (the power and water utility)
and SOLIMA (the entity in charge of petroleum imports, refining, transport
and distribution); setting prices; and providing for overall energy planning,
in coordination with OMNIS. The Ministry of Finance and Planning plays a
minor role in energy matters by administering fuel taxation and participating
in decisions on the public investment program. Finally, the Ministry of Rural
Development and Agrarian Reform has started to promote more efficient produc-
tion of traditional fuels, in particular, charcoal.
25.       Main Policy Issues.  The formulation and implementation of energy
policies are weak because of the lack of analytical support for decision
making, as well as inadequate coordination among government agencies concerned
with energy matters. Few data are available for establishing an energy balance,
setting priorities in resource development and managing demand. The impact
of energy pricing on the overall economy and the implications of economic
growth on energy demand are rarely taken into account in the planning process.
26.       Energy pricing policies, including taxation, have been determined
largely by social and political considerations so that petroleum products and
electricity prices have been held at inadequate levels over extended periods.
This has deprived the State energy corporations of adequate financial resources.
Further, it has caused some distortions in relative prices as increases have
been concentrated on particular segments of consumption (e.g., gasoline and
Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG)), while some consumers such as JIRAMA and the
railway company obtained diesel and fuel oil at preferential rates. The
Government is taking steps to correct the most glaring deficiencies of the
energy price structure. A comprehensive study on electricity tariffs based on
marginal cost pricing has been carried out under the Andekaleka project and
its recommendations are under review. Petroleum products pricing has become
more flexible recently and increases in cost are taken into account more
rapidly. Following the international petroleum price increases during the
first half of 1979, product prices were raised--for the first time since
January 1977--by substantial amounts ranging from 47 percent for diesel to 76
percent for premium gasoline. Retail prices for petroleum products are now
close to international levels with the exception of fuel oil. 1/
27.       Differences in relative energy prices reflect, to a certain degree,
differential taxation.  Petroleum products taxes--whose structure and rates
have remained largely unchanged since 1972--range from 31 percent of the
retail price for normal gasoline to less than 8 percent for fuel oil. In
contrast, taxes on electricity sales total about 15 percent. Provincial and
municipal levies further add to differentials in energy prices. Public sector
1/   In July 1979, prices of the major products were (in US$/gal equivalent)
2.05 for LPG, 2.56 for regular gasoline, 1.38 for kerosene, 1.34 for
diesel and .62 for fuel oil.



-9 -
consumers are either exempt from energy taxes or taxed at a reduced rate.
Despite their relatively low rates, petroleum products taxes in 1978 produced
receipts of about US$20 million or 6 percent of the Government's current
revenues in that year.
28.       Investment Priorities.  Until recently there were no clearly defined
priorities in energy development. With the objective of developing the
country's energy resource potential to the fullest possible extent, the
Government proposed tapping about every potential energy source without fully
assessing the comparative costs and benefits of individual options. During
recent discussions with the Bank Group, the Government confirmed that it would
place priority on the development of hydropower and hydrocarbons (both light
and heavy oil), which appear to provide the most effective way of meeting
Madagascar's energy requirements. In contrast, the feasibility of developing
coal resources is less clear, at least over the medium term, in view of high
infrastructure investment required, long lead times, small domestic market and
poor export prospects.
29.       This strategy is reflected in the public investments in the energy
sector planned for the 1980-83 period, which are estimated at about US$275
million (1979 prices). Of this program, nearly 75 percent would be absorbed
by the power sector, especially the Andekaleka hydropower project (partly
financed by IDA (Credit 817-MAG)). Public investment in petroleum exploration
would amount to some US$3 million annually which would be covered mainly by
the proposed credit. SOLIMA's investments are estimated at about US$10
million per annum and would include secondary processing facilities at the
refinery and expansion of transport and storage facilities for which suppliers'
and commercial bank financing is likely to be forthcoming. The emphasis on
hydrocarbon exploration and development is well-advised since the petroleum
sector offers attractive opportunities and since even a modest production by
international standards would not only meet the country's needs but could also
provide an exportable surplus.
Petroleum Sector
30.       Madagascar's crude oil imports, which originate mainly in Iraq,
amounted to 479,000 metric tons in 1978 (compared to a peak of 760,000 metric
tons in 1975) and are processed in the 2,200 metric tons/day refinery at
Tamatave. The decrease in crude imports reflects a decline in refining asso-
ciated with the loss of the Reunion export market in 1976. Exports of petro-
leum products, primarily fuel oil, dropped during 1975-78 from nearly 290,000
metric tons to 72,800 metric tons. On the other hand, product imports--chiefly
gasoline and middle distillates--increased from 4,600 metric tons to 79,000
metric tons over the same period, equivalent to 22 percent of domestic demand
in the latter year, due to declining refinery output.
31.       As a result of slow economic growth and high fuel prices relative
to per capita income levels, domestic consumption has increased by less than
1 percent per annum since 1970 to reach 349,000 metric tons (43 kg per capita)
in 1978. Diesel and fuel oil used primarily in power generation and rail trans-
port account for nearly 60% of petroleum products consumption and gasoline for



- 10 -
about 25 percent. Jet and residential fuels (kerosene and butane) account for
the remainder. Use of the latter has been growing relatively fast as they
are being used increasingly by middle- to higher-income groups to replace
wood and charcoal.
32.       Petroleum imports represent an increasingly heavy burden on
Madagascar's balance of payments. Net of product exports, petroleum imports
increased during 1973-78 from US$7.4 million to over US$53 million (or 15.5
percent of total exports). Despite substantially reduced volumes of crude
imports, the petroleum imports bill for 1979 is likely to be nearly US$70
million (net of product exports). Even if petroleum consumption in Madagascar
in the years ahead is tightly controlled, net petroleum imports in 1985 would
approach to US$180 million (or 30 percent of export earnings), should there be
no indigenous crude oil production by then.
Hydrocarbon-related Geology and Status of Exploration (ref Annexes VI and VII)
33.       Geology.  Nearly three quarters of Madagascar consists of an old
crystalline core flanked by sedimentary basins (ref. Map 14787, attached).
The largest and most important of these are at Morondava in the west and
Majunga in the northwest. Basins to the east and south are relatively minor.
The Morondava Basin has had the bulk of prior exploration and contains the
only known shows of oil and gas in Madagascar.
34.       Exploration History.  The search for hydrocarbons in Madagascar
began in the early part of this century near the oil seeps in the Bemolanga-
Tsimiroro area and until 1964 was dominated by French national companies.
About 30 exploratory wells were drilled during this period, excluding shallow
core holes. In the decade 1965-74, international companies (including
Chevron, Conoco, CFP, Elf, AGIP, Esso, Shell and Tenneco) dominated explora-
tion. Most of the exploration took place in the Morondava Basin where some
ten exploratory wells were drilled. In addition, several exploratory wells
were drilled in the Majunga Basin and off the east coast.
35.       Results of the pre 1964 drilling established the presence of heavy
oil at Tsimiroro and one well tested gas in the southern part of the basin.
The 1965-74 exploration program resulted in one minor gas test offshore.
In nine core tests, a group led by Chevron failed to establish an area at
Tsimiroro with a sufficiently high saturation of heavy oil to warrant further
evaluation. In the face of these disappointing results and a political
climate which became adverse to foreign investment, petroleum exploration
ceased in 1975. Since then what little exploration has been undertaken has
been carried out by OMNIS.
36.       Petroleum Potential of the Morondava Basin.  The departing com-
panies left behind a wealth of geological data, both from wells drilled and
seismic lines. Much of this data has yet to be thoroughly analyzed. This
information, even upon superficial examination, establishes that the geology
of the Morondava Basin is quite complex. The potential of the basin has not
really been established by past efforts since specific targets have proven to
be more elusive than originally thought. A systematic and perhaps lengthy
exploration program will be required to fully evaluate the Morondava Basin,
in addition to the Majunga Basin and others.



- 11 -
37.       The onshore Karroo, because of the occurrence of Bemolonga tar
sandstones and Tsimiroro heavy oil, is deemed the most promising. The
Bemolanga deposits are situated some 500 km northwest of Antananarivo, and
estimates of tar-in-place are upward of 300 million metric tons. The Tsimiroro
heavy oil deposits are located about 50 km south-southwest of Bemolanga.
The heavy oil is found at depths below 250 meters, and oil-in-place estimates
range upward from 600 million metric tons. The only actual oil recovery from
the subsurface in Madagascar occurred in the Tsimiroro area when a well bailed
oil at the rate of 2 tons per day in the early 1950s. Outside of the known
heavy oil areas, the Karroo is the least explored, either by seismic surveys
or by drilling. This appears due to its nonmarine deposition, generally
considered less prospective than formations deposited in the marine environment
and because the play exists primarily in the less accessible interior of the
island.
38.       At present, the Jurassic (Middle and Lower) must be considered the
second best play based on the wide extent of Middle Jurassic marine shales
as potential source rock, ample structuring, evidence of reefs in the Middle
Jurassic and the presence of fair to good sandstone reservoirs in the Lower
Jurassic immediately underlying the likely source rock. The Cretaceous and
younger formations are somewhat prospective and occur at proper depths of
burial, principally in the offshore. As seen thus far, the reservoirs would
chiefly be sandstone and the source rock would be the intervening shale beds.
Limestones (former shell beds) may also form reservoirs and the presence of
reef traps should not be discounted, although none have been identified as yet.
39.       It should be noted that the offshore seismic data acquired to date
in the Morondava Basin are far inferior to that obtained on land (contrary to
most areas of the world). Sea conditions in the Mozambique Channel (moderate
to heavy chop most of the year), hard limestone bottom with extensive patch
reef and the abundance of volcanics in subsurface (particularly in the Lower
Cretaceous section) are considered to be responsible for this. Prospects in
water depths beyond the continental shelf are little known at present, either
in regard to sediment thickness or structure. Any Tertiary prospect that may
exist will be largely relegated to this environment.
The Sectoral Institution: OMNIS
40.       OMNIS was established on November 12, 1975 to be in charge of
economically strategic industries. It is an autonomous agency headed by the
President of the Republic who also appoints its policy-making board (Conseil
d'Orientation), which includes the Prime Minister, the Ministers of Finance
and Planning, Economy and Commerce, Higher Education and Scientific Research
and seven members of the Supreme Council of the Revolution. Its operations
are supervised by a directorate (Conseil de Direction), chaired by the Ministry
of Economy and Commerce, and includes OMNIS' Director General and department
directors, as well as representatives of the Presidency of the Republic and
the Ministry of Finance and Planning.



- 12 -
41.       OMNIS has among its responsibilities the supervision of strategic
nationalized industries, namely, the KRAOMA chromite mines and SECREN, a ship
repair enterprise, as well as the exploration for and development of radio-
active minerals, bituminous sandstones and petroleum. Its radioactive minerals
section is organizing a survey of Madagascar's crystalline rocks with Inter-
national Atomic Energy Agency assistance. Its bituminous sandstones section
is investigating the exploitation of the Bemolanga deposit. The results of
studies on different processes for extracting the bitumen--partially financed
by the European Investment Bank--are expected by the end of 1980. OMNIS
intends to keep the Association informed on the progress of these studies
and might request its assistance for the development of the deposit. In
petroleum exploration OMNIS has been mainly occupied with the interpretation
of exploration data left by former operators and three subsequent seismic
surveys. Its petroleum staff include Malagasy professionals, four of whom
were trained abroad. This staffing is thin, since only one geologist has
sufficient knowledge and practical experience to be considered a competent
explorationist by industry standards. OMNIS has little capability for geo-
physical interpretation.
42.       OMNIS is financed by transfers from the Central Government's budget,
allocations from the National Economic Development Fund and payments from
KRAOMA. Government transfers in 1976-78 accounted for 84 percent of available
funds, with the remainder provided by KRAOMA. While OMNIS is allowed to
borrow, it has not used this power beyond short-term overdrafts with local
banks. Expenditures totaled 976 million FMG (US$4.3 million equivalent) in
1978, of which investment outlays accounted for nearly 90 percent. Petroleum-
related expenditures amounted to some 675 million FMG (US$3 million equivalent)
over the 1976-78 period and represented over two thirds of capital expendi-
tures. Exploration for uranium and investigation of bituminous sandstones
represented 14 percent and 7 percent respectively of capital expenditures over
the same period.
OMNIS' Strategy for Petroleum Exploration and Development
43.       Light Oil.  OMNIS is the exclusive holder of petroleum exploration
rights in Madagascar. Its strategy in oil exploration is to promote the
resumption of drilling for oil in the shortest period possible. Until
recently, OMNIS was planning to drill and therefore was focusing its work on
the areas where the best hydrocarbon shows occurred. It has commissioned
three detailed seismic surveys, two in 1977 and 1978 near the EP-1 (offshore)
and SK-1 (onshore) gas shows and one in 1979 across the Tsimiroro horst (the
location of the heavy oil deposits) to investigate the possibility of deep
traps on the flanks of the structure that may contain lighter oil. Because
of inadequate supervision and interpretation by OMNIS, the early surveys have
yielded disappointing results in terms of data quality. For lack of qualified
personnel, OMNIS has also fallen considerably behind in the interpretation of
geophysical data left by foreign companies.
44.       More recently, OMNIS' management realized that it would be too ex-
pensive to undertake exploratory drilling by itself. It is now seeking partners
willing to undertake oil exploration in Madagascar at their own risk. However,



- 13 -
as of now, OMNIS is not ready to start promoting its petroleum potential
and discussing it with foreign companies. With few exceptions, it needs to
improve its knowledge of the petroleum potential of prospective areas to
obtain a sound basis for meaningful negotiations with oil companies. Also
there is considerable legal uncertainty since the Government does not wish to
enter into agreements with companies under the 1962 Petroleum Code, which is
based on the French concession agreement. A legal and contractual framework
in line with prevailing social, political and economic conditions has to be
established.
45.       OMNIS has defined the following strategy in promoting its petroleum
potential to international oil companies. First, with an advance granted
under the Project Preparation Facility, it has employed consultants to revise
the petroleum legislation and to propose model agreements covering exploration
and, in case of discovery, development. The draft Petroleum Code as well as
the general terms of such model agreements were reviewed during credit negotia-
tions and found satisfactory. The Government intends to present the new
Petroleum Code to Parliament before June 1980. Second, it will select from
the areas on which its geological and geophysical work is most advanced those
with the best prospects and offer them to foreign firms through competitive
bidding. Third, it will add to its portfolio of prospective acreage by
pursuing the interpretation of the documents left by former operating companies
and by undertaking seismic reconnaissance surveys of prospective zones which
have not been explored by modern methods, in particular, the southern part of
the Morondava Basin (see attached map). The purpose of the seismic program
would be to uncover structural and other leads in areas containing known or
suspected source rocks. Reconnaissance lines are preferred because a larger
area can be covered. OMNIS expects foreign oil companies to start drilling in
1982 and 1983. In the case of oil discovery, the development of the field
would take 2-3 years before production.
46.       Heavy Oil.  OMNIS has been paying little attention to the Tsimiroro
heavy oil deposits. Its efforts in the area (para. 43) were mainly aimed at
identifying traps for light oil. OMNIS realizes that the heavy oil deposits
are known to amount to several hundred million tons of oil-in-place while the
existence of light oil is uncertain. Furthermore, the conclusions of past
operators, that the deposits could not be exploited economically, might not be
valid today considering increasing crude oil prices. OMNIS is interested in a
further investigation of the Tsimiroro deposits to assess whether they could
be economically tapped to supply the Malagasy market.
47.       Conclusions.  OMNIS' approach to oil exploration is basically sound.
Its successful implementation will depend on the availability of human re-
sources lacking at present. OMNIS should employ highly qualified technicians
to clear the backlog of geological and geophysical information, deal with the
companies on a knowledgeable basis, supervise future seismic work and ensure
the acquisition of high quality data on prospective areas and assess the
Tsimiroro heavy oil deposits. OMNIS' management is aware that until more
Malagasy personnel is adequately trained, it will have to rely on foreign
expertise.



- 14 -
48.       The Government attaches high priority to the development of domestic
hydrocarbon resources. Despite unsuccessful exploration efforts in the past
years, the petroleum potential of Madagascar and of the Morondava Basin in
particular remains reasonably attractive. Private capital should be available
for a new round of hydrocarbon exploration in Madagascar. With the ever
increasing price of crude oil, the Tsimiroro heavy oil deposits warrant
further investigation. The Malagasy authorities realize that they may be at
a turning point in the development of their hydrocarbon resources.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
49.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of an IDA
mission to Madagascar in March 1979 and appraised in November 1979. An
advance of US$350,000 under the Project Preparation Facility was granted
on January 11, 1980 to assist OMNIS in preparing a modern legal framework
for meaningful negotiations with petroleum companies and in assessing the
Tsimiroro heavy oil deposits. Credit negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. on March 14, 1980. The Malagasy delegation was headed by Mr. Leon
Rajaobelina, Governor of the Central Bank of Madagascar, and included
Mr. Hubert Andrianasolo, Director General of OMNIS. A credit and project
summary appears at the beginning of this Report, and a supplementary project
data sheet is given in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
50.       The project would support the Government's efforts to develop
a domestic supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy
sector. It would include the following components:
(a) Assistance to OMNIS
OMNIS would employ consultants for a total of 107 man-months
(ref. Annex V for a detailed description of this component).
Its exploration consultant would assist in the compilation
and review of existing geological and geophysical data,
particularly on the Morondava Basin, the preparation of
presentation documents on areas to be offered for explora-
tion by foreign companies and the supervision of the prepared
seismic work (para. (b) below). OMNIS' legal consultants
would assist in the preparation of an adequate legislative and
contractual framework for foreign companies to carry out
petroleum exploration in association with OMNIS. The



- 15 -
geological and geophysical consultants would work on the
interpretation of existing basins (other than Morondava)
or on newly acquired data and supervise the seismic results
and monitor data quality. The heavy oil specialists would
assess the Tsimiroro heavy oil deposit. This component
would also include on the job training for OMNIS staff,
special studies (reprocessing of seismic lines, geochemical
analysis and interpretation of Landsat imagery) as well as
the purchase of the equipment needed.
(b) Seismic Survey
The project would include a 12-month program of onshore
reconnaissance seismic work. This seismic program is expected
to provide useful data on one or more areas at present poorly
known. This is one of the principal requirements for attract-
ing foreign company exploration on terms favorable to
Madagascar. In July-August 1980, the exploration consultants
(para (a) above) would submit a detailed seismic program. A
condition for disbursing the relevant funds would be for this
program to be satisfactory to IDA (Schedule 1, para 5(ii),
draft Development Credit Agreement).
(c)   Engineering Study of Tsimiroro
This study would be based on the recommendations of
the heavy oil specialists employed by OMNIS and would
investigate the feasibility of a pilot plant in Tsimiroro.
It would primarily include further core drills of the
deposits as well as physical and chemical tests of the
samples. A condition for disbursing the relevant funds
would be for the preliminary assessment to conclude to
the satisfaction of OMNIS and the Association that the
engineering study is warranted (Schedule 1, para. 5(iii)
draft Development Credit Agreement); the engineering study
is expected to begin in the fall of 1980 for completion in
early 1982. A pilot plant could be brought into production
by 1985.
(d) Energy Planning
This component aims at enabling the Government to undertake
energy planning on a continuous basis by (i) analyzing
priority issues of energy policies, (ii) establishing
the analytical framework for comprehensive energy sector
planning and (iii) creating a national energy planning
capability. It provides:



- 16 -
(a) 18 manmonths of consulting services for analysis
of the fuel pricing structure, identification of
development options including renewable energy,
evaluation of project proposals with a view toward
strengthening the Government's ability to make
appropriate investment decisions, analysis of issues
related to rural energy and evaluation of institutional
and manpower needs; and
(b) two scholarships for participation by senior Government
officials responsible for energy planning in programs on
energy economic policies and administration (Schedule 2,
Part D.2, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project, net of duties and taxes which are not
applicable, is estimated at US$14.6 million equivalent. The cost of one man-
month of consulting services has been estimated on the average at US$13,800
including travel, subsistence and overhead. This amount is reasonable, taking
into account the high level of expertise required and salaries prevailing in
the petroleum industry. The cost of seismic work has been estimated on the
basis of actual costs of surveys in Madagascar and comparable countries. The
cost estimates include 10 percent physical contingencies on the seismic survey
and the geochemical analysis. Price contingencies of 10.5 percent in 1980,
9 percent in 1981 and 8 percent in 1982 have been applied to the foreign
exchange and local cost of all project components. Total contingencies amount
to US$2.3 million equivalent, about 22 percent of baseline cost estimates.
Estimated costs by project components are given in the project summary at the
beginning of this Report.
52.       The proposed IDA credit would finance the foreign exchange component
amounting to US$10.7 million, as well as US$1.8 million of local costs. This
amount would include US$350,000 to reimburse an advance under the Project
Preparation Facility, granted on January 11, 1980, to the Government of
Madagascar to cover OMNIS' expenditures for the services of consultants after
January 1, 1980, and before credit signing. The remainder of the local costs
component (US$2.1 million) would be financed by government cash contributions
to OMNIS amounting to US$600,000 in 1980, US$900,000 in 1981 and US$600,000 in
1982 (Section 3.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement). The proceeds of
the IDA credit would be made available to OMNIS as a non-reimbursable contri-
bution to its resources (Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
53.       OMNIS, which would enter into a project agreement with the Associa-
tion, would be in charge of implementing the project. With the agreement
of the Association, it employed legal and exploration consultants in January
1980 and heavy oil specialists in March 1980. The geological and geophysical
consultants would be employed before June 1980. The seismic surveys would be
carried out by specialized contractors under the supervision of OMNIS, its



- 17 -
exploration consultants and its field geophysicist. The Tsimiroro engineering
study would begin in September 1980 and be carried out by a specialized firm.
OMNIS has been charged by the Government to implement the energy planning
component and would carry it out in close cooperation with the Ministry of
Economy and Commerce. Draft terms of reference for the energy planning
consultants were reviewed during negotiations. The consultants would be
employed by December 1980. All consultants would be engaged on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association and OMNIS. (A tentative schedule
of implementation is presented in Annex IV).
54.       OMNIS is expected to sell some of the data collected during project
implementation (in particular, the reconnaissance seismic lines) to interested
oil companies. The proceeds of any such sales would be kept in a special
account and used for further petroleum exploration (Section 4.03, draft
Project Agreement). Until the completion of the project OMNIS shall also
exchange views with the Association on petroleum exploration activities in
the Borrower's territory (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Contracts for geophysical work would be awarded following inter-
national competitive bidding. Core drilling work would be procured under
a contract awarded after obtaining quotations from a limited number of con-
tractors (Schedule B.2, draft Project Agreement). Vehicles, office and
laboratory equipment (estimated to cost less than US$150,000 in total) would
be procured following local bidding procedures which are satisfactory to the
Association. The selection of consultants would be in accordance with the
Association's guidelines for the use of consultants. Disbursements would be
made against 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 46 percent of local
expenditures.   Special conditions of disbursement are attached to the funds
relating to the seismic survey and to the engineering of the Tsimiroro heavy
oil (Schedule 1, para. 5(ii and iii) draft Development Credit Agreement).
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
56.       OMNIS would keep separate project accounts.  The project's and
OMNIS' own accounts would be audited by external auditors acceptable to OMNIS
and the Association. OMNIS would submit audit reports to the Association no
later than five months after the closing of its fiscal year, starting with
calendar year 1980. OMNIS would submit quarterly and annual reports on the
implementation of the project in a format acceptable to the Association
(Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement). After completion
of the project, OMNIS shall prepare a report on the execution of the project
(Section 2.05(c), draft Project Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
57.       The primary benefit of the exploration components (assistance to
OMNIS and seismic survey) would be to provide partial oil import substitution
beginning around 1985. To this end private capital would have to be attracted
to undertake oil exploration in Madagascar. It is expected that at least two
tracts would be ready to be offered to companies in the second half of 1980.
The first, at Sud Serinam, lies within the Middle Jurassic play onshore in



- 18 -
the northern part of the South Morondava Basin in an area presenting several
moderately sized but well-defined structures, as well as a Middle Jurassic
reef. The second covers the deeper structures surrounding the Tsimiroro horst
on which OMNIS carried out a seismic survey in 1979. If the data are found
to be good, attractive prospects are likely to exist and if presented well,
may draw industry interest, since there are so many nearby heavy oil shows.
Following the reconnaissance seismic survey, it is likely that new areas could
be offered as early as 1982.
58.       The risks associated with the exploration components are two-fold.
The first risk concerns the quality of the seismic data acquired. The project
provides for a field geophysicist and a geophysical interpreter to supervise
the work of the seismic contractor and reduce, if not eliminate, the risk of
acquiring inadequate data. The second risk is that even if satisfactory data
is acquired the leads uncovered might be insufficiently attractive to spur
widespread industry interest. However, given the current energy market
conditions, it is believed that the advantages of proceeding with the project
outweigh the risks associated with it.
59.       The major benefit of the heavy oil component would be to accelerate
the development of this deposit, which appears to offer the best opportunity
to meeting part of Madagascar's petroleum needs from domestic sources within
ten years. There is no special risk with regard to this engineering study.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and OMNIS, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
61.       The draft Development Credit and Project Agreements conform to
the usual pattern of agreements on petroleum exploration promotion projects.
Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex III of
this Report.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                              by   Ernest Stern
April 17, 1980



ANNEX 1
Pale L
TA8LE 3IA
MrA0MICiSOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAD AACAR                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADUUSTED AyJRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ.  M)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             587.0                                                    SAME         sM'      NEXT RIGHER
AGIICULTURAL     368.6                                  MDST RECENT      CEOGRAPHIc    tNCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTInATE lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    CRO'P /a
GN? PER CAPITA (USS)                   120.0       180.0      250.0            306.1      209.6        .67.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL. EUIVALE5IT)      38.0         71.0      66.0             S0.6        83.9        262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       5.5          6.8        8.0
UUBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 11.1          14.9       16.4,            17.1       16.2         24.6
POPULATION PROJtCTIONS
POPULATION IN  EAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         15.0
STATIONARtY POPULATION (MLLIONS)                          39.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACD                     2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         9.0         12.0       14.0            18.4        49.4        45.3
PER Sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      15.0         18.0      22.0             50.8       252.0       149.0
POPULATION ArE STRUCTURE (PZRCZNT)
a-14 Ys.                           44.6         44.4      45.0             44.1        43.1        45.2
15-64 YrS.                          52.8         52.9      52.0             52.9        53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AMD ABOVE                    2.6          2.7        3.0             2.8         3.0          2.8
POPULATION GROWEN RAT! (PERCENT)
OTAL                                1.8          2.2       2.5              2.7         2.4         2.7
URBAN                               4.0          5.1       4.3              5.7         4.6         4.3
CRPUOE BIRTH RATE (PER TROUSAND)     47.0         45.0       45.0            46.3        42.4         39.4
CIUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0         22.0       19.0            17.2        15.9         11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTLON RATE               2.9          3.2        3.0             3.L         2.9          2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNOAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         .                ..       l2.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          100.0        101.0      96.0             94.3       9s.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
RQUIRDAENTS)                    106.0        108.0    OS.0              89.5       93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PE& DAY)           55.0         53.0      57.0             55.8        52.L        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PUTLSE       17.0/f       17.0      15.6             17.9        13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY LATE      41.0         32.0      27.0             22.3        18.5        11.4
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0          42.0      46.0             47.0        49.3        54.7
INFANT mORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               *-       177.0/R      1. ..                     105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         11.0      26.0             20.3        26.3        34.4
URBAN                                ..         67.0      76.0             53.9        58.5        57.9
RURAL                                ..          1.0      16.0             10.1        15.8        21.2
ACCESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         .             22.5        16.0        40.8
URBAN                                                                                 1 88.a  ..  62.5  65.1  71.3
RURAL                                ..           .        9.0             13.9         3.5        27.7
POPLATION PER PsYSICYAN            8800.0      11390.0   10780.0          17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       3760.0    3760.0           2506.6      5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION ?ER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             510.0        400.0     410.0            502.3      1417.1       726.5
URBAN                                 .        170.0     220.0            201.4       197.3       272.7
RURAL                                ..        520.0     510.0           1403.6     2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8ED            ..           ..         ..            Z23.4       24.8        27.5
HOUSI9C
AVERAGE SIZE OF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                            5.8       4.7              4.9         5.3         5.4
URBAN                                            5.2       5.0              4.9         4.9         5.1
RURAL                                            5.9       4.7              5.5         5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..        ..
URBAN                                            ..            ..         ..
RURAL                                             ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          5.0        ..               ..        22.5        28.1
URBAN                                 .           ..         ..              ..        17.8 a5.1
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..              ..          ..9.9



ANNEX 1
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                 REFERENCE GROUPS (I AJUSTED AYjRAGES
- MOST RECENT "STIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       RECtON /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /I
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 52.0        83.0       92.0 /h          59.0       62.3         82.7
MALE                  58.0        90.0        ..             64.2        79.1        87.3
FEMALE               45.0         77.0         ..            44.2        48.4        75.8
SECONLARY:  TOTAL                   4.0         11.0      14.0 /h           9.0       16.7         21.4
MALE                   5.0        13.0         ..            12.0        22.4        33.0
FEMALE                 3.0         8.0        .;              4.4        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   9.0           9.0       7.0              7.0        5.6          9.8
PUPEL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            70.0        65.0       61.0             42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                          24.0        20.0       24.0             22.9       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..         39.0      50.0/h           20.8       31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.0         6.0        6.4              4.0        2.8          9.3
LADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         15.0        80.0      112.0             44.3       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.5        1.0              2.9        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   8.0          8.0       9.0              5.6        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5           0.7       0.4              0.4        1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2960.0      3570.0    3900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   46.2        45.7       46.0             31.9       24.8         29.2
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              92.8        89.4       84.0             77.6       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.5         3.4        5.3             7.9        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                53.7         52.3      51.3             40.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                 58.7         57.7      56.6             53.9       32.4         48.8
FEMALE                               48.9         47.0      46.0             25.6       18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          0.9       0.9              1.2        1.2          1.4
LSCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE liNCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.0/i          ..        ..               ..         ..         L5.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.1/i          ..        ..               ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.27T         ..         ..               ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ROUSEROLDS   13.07i          ..        ..               ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     150.0            187.6       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                *-            *      86.0            96.8        78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
tURAN                                ..           ..     135.0            138.4       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      86.0             71.0       54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAS                                ..           ..      50.0            34.5        44.1        24.8
RLUAL                                ''           *'      50.0             48.7       53.9        37.5
Noc available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicacor and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is noc uniforrm.
/b    Unless otherwise nteced, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income (5280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income
(S281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  1961-63;  /R  1965-66;   /h  1978;   /i  Populacion.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.



ANNE 1
rISOP SOICIAL IXDICATOP                                                                      Page   3
Noiese   Although the data are dress  fra  souce  ge-erily judged tbs mot suboteitine  se  reliable, it should also ho noted that they may not be i.t.--
tionolly oomparhle hensouc of the look of standardised deinition   and  -eopts used by different .ou. trill te collecting the dat.  The dot  . , noneheless,
usefl to dasenib  orders of magnitude, todicote  trends, and oharacrertsite   .rtreie major difforseree  hs.aesncoustris..
The adjusted uroun a.rera   for eac h indicator are ppelatio-esightod geasenit nooo * exclding the ontra   rlefus  of the indoator lend the most populated
countrinec   grop.  Dhue to lebof dat,gop arnao   of el inietr  frCpital ourpl- "tt E-prtrsano  lodicator o,f Acest                                               -atr and -no-er
dipo ot,fosig,_  no   dierhtfned Prry fo  oher o...otty grops ore populotiet-eighted g.- tri J nan  hwith a   eleo   ofte  orse   oaIt. u sd
the oo   pulidcotry.Seste  ooaoo    -orsir    on   the tedi,tetre daneeda on ausilbit  of daeo ad   a not uin .catomst beene.rtised
to retatitacge of ioetodicotr to another.  Tha   vrge   r    oty  afla   enotston    f'nooe"rtn    hen oo rlns the oaluee ofon
LAND AREA  ctooeerd uq  o)an                                                                         oeraodiseosal 1~leenet of eosulo1iIn - ttal.  urhos. lend
Totel-701 so -eeee   oprin itt land ares and  ,Inadetr,ual- terfpole ttl,rbnad ru.ral:                                                              ere   benrer  die-
A -1AIrctuu  - Mont  rcoottu,of sgricu ra   raI                  sdtempo..rarly             posal1 aspercetsgos ofithei.r  oslPective  Popu1stion.   toccata- dIIpo
orP pe   ..r.r lv for cro ps, patue, narket and hitcher gsrden  or to                    my include the col lertio       n  dIsposal, afeh or oithout tree tn-ot, o
Its faIIo.                                                                               ba    ert  an1:d waste-ae  by eater-b,ore   stt    on the use of ptt
prirssen. IaILar  testlItion.
GNP PER CAPITA  JO)$) - CAP Percp c  ea  etsecurrmrhet prices,                             Poelatin at~ physlicia-  .poplation diolded bytob.r of prcttclt.g phpei-
oalcolacrd by san  conect- rtdenworld Reek Atus  (17-7  ale                              cine qullfted frl a madioal scoo  a  ot           irr tevel
HAl 190, ard 1977 data.                                                               Populatioseoriuoron- m.Ppopultion diri~dadby  -tobo oif prec~1itrig-
male aod faste  grad osto  ue    prociict     ore..ad  eettan   une
fENIERl CSN10PT10N pit CAPITAO-tnnOa I -o-nPtion of .ser  lo..  enry(ol                    Poulstito  nor huspitte1 hod - total, urban, and rural - Population  trote1,
ur   tgle,pIroecT        I aualntad hydo,ncered geuthDelsl                       ar_be-, end .rurl)idicided bytheir reep-cire orsbor of hosplit1 bode
rlcrcc)I  Algaao   oo   qiaetper                        1960 lh,  9190siehet  pblisdpI...e genraltend epociatood huplto1 atdre
-rd IHIt dets.                                                                          habili.tia_on  ceire.  HosPital a are    Itehhtfeete  pe--an1cl  ecffad by
PO,PULOTI ANDOW  VITAL STATISTICS                                                            oInet I... r  physicist.  Eteclihfamote  prouilding Prttcipa11r cetodial
Total rpulacltr  nlid-re.r loillioto   - He of July 1; 1960, 1970, - d                     ceehett--ldd                orlhsial    oee, leltd-                hltod.    nel, d -
19'' date.                                                   cal caters  not ~~Prnecly safd b.c   physicIan (hut by a ..dcei  a-
Urbanocro  t lo  Irorect  f       Rtos j i-Oa tof orbsr  ttutul1 popolattoc, '       slt,cm           idnife, etc.) ohtch offer in-pactroc so- eneodetier a-d
dlffr__  defficto_. of tha o...          mar. effect conpaca.bIit, of dote              proyide e lisited rage of  edlcal  facIiltes.
an_ cg rtie  1960, 1970  -od 1975 dab,.                                               otA  too,1n  Pret lP,  boeiolhd - Total  _uber ofd.aci...le  te or dtnchergtr
PouaicP-of-tiont                                                                    frot   op_   aodlcidod by the masher of hedr.
1975  totl pepolutton by  ge  rd ro  aod their nortalit, utd frtiliy 
ace,.   Pco)ecclou pararec rn  o  tlt  caePc"ieeo     Aeel                   geru  tir  of.1  h.oune1ho       '-reP  rr  o d  bid-     - toal urba,ader 
tcoeI-ol , ucd fiale lIfe  -pn-tacoy  -tbtirinig oc777.5 years.                     urd their  -eir-t  n        ore   oclde  o  o   a   e   eIrlddI 
rho caraurtoro  for 7oct11 tcr rate a Ito haoe 3 lecelt eteunieg deolton  hounehold  forh- Id af tutloal perpones
uc1;    dcciIt  reds for pr-)-otte   purpse.lrspclol.  rollog   ec lde ro-p--tecsto  -eread  -tccpted pa-t-
-P      r .alnrePplaIn   breI  cgoth                                Acs  to .nlrey-irioe   foretof dtaeiui- -toal   -rb-  an -rra1
It       htc    T.eua Sto1 the dent  rule.i, atdhere  the age,          C rettoudoIlig echelos tt  nIlooqactta prrtge f
drol C  1  terrpacren   Irolf el,te-eepodo-ticrrate,u.hens
Se _ora  fe   o _.aot   PI celat  itrell eatjlv._Thr tutfnar   Ppople,tio           EDUCATION6
tire oa-to.tolucd o-  thebtsothprje td oracene los o  th                              kdjfusted enroll-ne  ratios
pop,lutllo  Ic the rear 2000, ucd the rate of d-citr  of Ierctlc ar                    Prmrecot-oa.ntendfar-os tta.ruendeaerro-
ta  .01toar -fro - Io   tRahd- The year  h..o  tuti.nary, Popol-               ochoe-ege       11 pultIos   ronnaly inciod- ohild-e  aged b-li rears bet
tIi oni-e tee b.e  reac..hed.                                                           edjosted for dif feree  Ie-gtht of prinlry, eduction; foe t..nt tee oth
rorolutlon d-nolc                                                                          -io-r-a  edeacio ..nro.ln7c may e.ceedI100 Pe rn-  `tt-  s-t  "Pop'   are
Per qu  or.. - Mid--ra   .peoa-i- onPr s          kar    tture I.   ltl0 h-.eotr )       heI  or u boe- the officia  e-oo  ogo
oftotal aroa                                                                         lon-    r  schoo  -  -ntal  mle and f-ncir - Conp-td a   bv,oonueoo
I" or. he. ac    1olorl  ad - CouPued   aatboe  for  1g-otun   od                                           I...eqirsa  las  foer ynere of epproced piayisrc  e.pol
genrl.    rac..   l,orcachrtraIinlg i-u cre          Iet     -o  pupilo   ualvo
PeltcA,rr-reoIre  ....te.t  - Cbtdre.r 7-.141y. ert,;aorhing-eg..                   12 to 17 yeArefagecorresPodnccureaegnreyecoed
715-A64ero  ,ad retired (69 year urd   rr   speenae    fnid-                           V_rti_onl  eolnn           .Inrcet.  of ondml-VOu_aiaa  inttiutont- teolode
reor poolotfe. IHAA,1970 ad 1977 data,                                           tehica. 1, identria1, or o-ther Prtgelle obih operuce  iedeperd-nl  or a
Pnaia    ronirte lo1 (er-etj - tocel - Aoutgottriso   o5                            d:prn;h      ofscnayintctos
mid-year popelation. for 1950-60, 196t-70,. ad 1970-7).                                otti-teatherratto-eiay  adscnay-oa    tdnt   noldI
I            Iot.o entHrr  (prerOeni  - orbe- - ..I grooth rates rf urbanp-ayen   eodr Pevo.edcded  by -druer  of teacherat  .,Inth   tor-
PoPLREiattntFrr2 1950-60. 1960-70. ard 1970-75.                                        bepoediogt lerelLt.h   -r
1ee   -huoad) -  eelfohhS-1 per P         huutdo                  Adult i1 ercyrat  loerceori - LIcerateedelts  s1lt to readad nite
,id -rea   p           1oc 60 h. 7907 aed 1A'  data.                                    A prn g   f coto  adltpopulaIon aged 15 peer  and   'r
Crde detht rub _Leer thooondi ,1- ura deaths per thousan.d of mid-
Veer ro  tiatto, 190, 1970 and1977 data,CONliPtrION
Gros   Prerduccton rae  -torage rather of dauberh                nari    er             Po..a.R.o ..rcsr  (P-  tho...a.d..realn                  ..sre  cnr" ccrnertror
Ir hr torolreprdeolee   erIo  Ifsin  npetence  prsen  uge         erting I..ut . Ibeaight pernons , e-iedesareucs   eaesudeltr
spcific  fertIlI    ree    saly fLee-roar a-ergen ending in 1960,                       ehiole..
1970, and 1975.                                                                       gadiorreceicers  Its      'MEERan  roet2   n   -All types of recetoer   for redio
aeceptor  of birc-contro  deciccouoderao   pies.o.raIoa  fartirdeceteer    -rcoencle  sod in year eher reitrtono  rdofes                                        d
FamIly  latniru.csers  orroeniof warnd aast   -f Percntae o                   ablishd   ,eenin
deotear toe 11 narcld o         Lne   In to  age gr-oup.                                public per chonserd population, eucloden unIinered Ty r-celeereit ter-
0O0 ANl NiUTRITION                                                                       n     atrcirclt ion leer thousand poeuatre   - IhnOh   vreecraa
Index of food pr-d-e cto  Iec   tt, 119h9-71 s 100  -londes of per caPita                  tin  of "daily geea           ..trs  tees lpaper, dotted asaperodiat puli-
onnul proooio  of al  fr  cnufi                   rdutlion coo Isdee seed and            cotton deroted Po,raIly  to recording geeraI                Itns,1  L, conidered to
feed aed to or -aLndar year haute.  Cossdittee corer pr"aY goods                         be 'daily' if it appa-arot least four ti          ae .
ito    ugurcce teteudof suar)  hlob urn edIble and cotainottes               Cinem   anu l.atedance esrest    rya-aedo  the ecber of tickets
-t cffee andi',:.ar er. cuded.   -grgI rdcin  fec   onr                               od during the year, to-udieg adtienion   to driro-i.rtcnensa and  obile
is bated on  -oton.l arergeprdue  prceeieht.                                             unIte.
Per crt  naeey o  coriesIeco  ofruironsts) I- Conpoted fr-n
potdat   suflaleoupi in cnp ' ne d          blstctu   io,bPorels                Tots1 Ia. o .r-forcel     sdi        - tooica11Y entire persons, Intlodiog armd
eote, ar   heogea  to stuc..iNe  splies1 nrc lade an-oel feed , sn-ode                foce  and ons.plopd but erciading housseivee, atudeots, etc.  Defit-
qaurc It ee used i  ford proenelno, ud Ilee   o distributin    tetnsi  carton  coutr ies are not coparable.
qotetetseres dnted by FOG lse d 00 phytilolgIre  needs for no-               Pml  nrei             eoelao   ocs   enoaeo  tote1 Ieb-r forc..
eelsototyan  belt  cneidrir   eeiosneteltepeatre  boy     ercocue teree)     LborfreInfrIg, forestry, hunting and fishing
elbuagead        dle diet otios of P.plaIo, and a11-iog 10 per-                    asprcetage of ctnl. tahr forc..
etfor cast  at hou..koId level,                                                    inotyf           n L - Lbor forte in m.ieg,  osrcin    antccrn   n
car pita re-pply u ofor  prda.             de noppytoffor  feefind a
a sinints ellou Pca 2ofih g(S  of. total     P pr tein pardayan  of gera           enttvi~ttyren    t- are dnSeted.  pes   . t ta,ms  en   fmlloor    for_   a
The s  stadard  areline  ibs  chue of75 5ems  f tral potei  and       19kg,1970end  975  ana,fheat are11,te paniciatfnraeerefli tiI
23  rot.  of atbonl  porinaft vrg   frteioi,  rp                      d byag-seth oi                    oeo   heppasto,edlogtetee.Afe"siaa
FA ib-   eThr  uorll.- td Pond.l  eerrey                                                arehfonbnetoo,&surces
i:i.-     of               ed  on6        Poenspppo   on                  cnindenanyrto-  aI   f  ooatn   ne   5  n   5andcrt
derted ronanfals nd oiss i gran1 pertidsperdy.d2.:
anof    ag   group 1pyerst, ofc Jchfdre  ft chte ag  gr,-p              p-or test     peroecane o  ediat indtone Th..h In cahOd k                  td irc Icedr byrce  5;
HEALTH                                                                                   of  tnse.olds
ir  s   Irh  1961  1970. andh1977 Herad flOitlO TAniCT iAfIEP
one pea  ofhse  peird ..hodeFd  floe bIrths                                             Abolte patrr  teoeielieta   os   lelhls oc      iia
Access  ca fsualerffertnec  f ronu datol)l- total uba   end" rura -oo          turitiadq ot  dietloof eseplalti non-feu                    5 d re 6r5e   Isd  not
Clate od     erl f,% ;4..o Itysl  arbat  andr rural)d sth  raeoabetho es  to.,       LNaffoSrdaBle.O
d.yeortantrac.toateri  such 00-tha  fron lrisccedboreo.s.. epfrg                        ooa   freecre  poerr inone- level Ie on-hird kof~ aoero-e per cpta
occe"t of cht hosb irthu,era) -I apess  r              fooah earcesoe   lepfy -        crl-Prio-o   uuafn ubn  e   oaiacae  te),t   .
ithe  roseth   e  yr,0    otecer  ot,I  dtheheePoOVdEnrRee  o  ped                        TARGEcTvdho  sItaoGRM1
olorop- cft Me parto  the .. dacI  fecIo dthe  ~fselraiefrn.oleredo..    b.. P-                                         I-        ..1I                     b.       r-
ocoic t) cf bed  rjofto.
... ye" I I thllld II,.I                           Ab-l t      -11  i.c-. level L. th.t I r. I.;.'I"               -bL:.ht'tao  19)



ANNEX 1
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                                              Annual Rates of Growth
US$ Mln        %                  1970-75             1972-77
GNP at Market Prices                                   1,772.3      100.0                   0.9                 0.4
Gross Domestic Investment                                 282.9       16.0                 -1.0                -3.0
Gross Domestic Saving                                     233.7      13.2                  27.5                36.1
Current Account Balance                                  -33.5       -1,9                    -
Exports of Goods, NFS                                    402.6       22,7                   3.1                -1.3
Isports of Goods, ITFS                                   451.8       25.5                  -0.9                -7.0
OUTPUT LABOUR FORCE AND                                                  1/                         2/
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976                                     Value Added               Labour Force               VA Per Worker
Agriculture                                            6 0           38.0        336               84.0       188.4 US$
Industry                                               318.0         19.0        0.Z0               5.0    1,590.0            378.0
Services                                               654.0         39.0   1
Unallocated                                             69.0 3/       4.0   f   0.42               11.0    1,721.0            409.0
1,674.      0               3.98            100.0       420.6           100.05
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                        Central Government
FM  B1n         ;ofGDP
1978      1977   1975-77
Current Receipts                                       86.5       15.3    14.8
Current Expenditure                                    90.7       17.6    15.6
Current Surplus                                        -42        --2.3    -0.7
Capital Expenditures                                   33.1        4.6      4.2
External Assistance (not)                               4.6 4/    1.0       1.2
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1975      1976    1977
(3Uli1on FMC Outstanding at thq Sad of the Period)
Money and Quasy Money                                   86.9       100.6   121.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            12,4        19.4    28.5
Bank Credit to Private and Para-Public sectors          78.4        82.2    95.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasy Money as 2 of GDP                       22.8        25.0    27.4
cDP deflator (1975s100)                                100.0       108.2   115.3
Annual percentage changes in:
5DP deflator                                       *     3.2         8.2      6.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           148.0        56.5    46.9
Bank Credit to Private and Par*-Public Sectors           2.1         4.8    16.7
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ At market prices.
/  Total labour force; unemployed workers are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
J/ Import duties
4 / 1977 provisional.



ANNEX 1
ThA   PAITE3S AXO CAPIAL P7WS                                  Page  5
ALMANCE OF PAYMENTS                                            1976             97-7         MERCUHnAISE  WXORTS (AVERACE 1975-779
USSNO 
Export of Goods, NFS                          392.9            341.9           402.6         Coffeo                                            122.4           37.8
Imports of Coods, NFS                        482.5             401.3           451.8         Vanilla                                            19.0            5.9
Iesource Gap                                  -49.6            -59.4           -49*2         Clove.                                              3 7           13 5
Meet and Heat Products                              5.3            1.6
Interest Payments                             -4.2              -4.6            -4.9         Fish and shellfish                                  3.6            1.1
Workers' Remittances (not)                    -29.4            -26.5           -24.4         Sugar                                              12.6             3.9
Other Factor Payments (not)                    -9.1             -0.1               -         Perroleum Products                                 22.1            6.8
Net Transfers                                  48.9             50.3             45.0        All other Cowuodities                              95.1           29.4
balance on Current Account                    -S3.4            -40.3           -23.5                 Total                                     323.S          100.0
Direct Foreign Investent                        4.5              1.4              2.8        EXTNALU DEBT, DECEXoER 31. 1978
Net MLT Borrowing:
USS Mln
Disbursemnts                              42.1              20.4            22.0
Amortization                              -6.4              -8.5            -8 3         Public Debt, including Guaranteed                         259
Subtotal                                  33.               U9              13     1    Son-Guaranteed Private Debt
Capital Grants                                 33.6             26.4             20.0        Total Outstanding & Disbursed                             259
Otber Capital (not) I/                       -15.6              -4.0            -2.6
Incrsase in Reserve 7(-)                      272                4.6            -0 .4                                     2/
Meru iems      i                                                                             DErT SFRVLCE RATIO FOR 1978
Transactions with 7=                            9.7              1.6              1.6
GrsssReserves                                  3S.6             42.2            68.9        ftbli  Debt, including Guarnted                            4.1
set Reserves 3                                 57.2             5J S            56.9         %rn-Guaranteed Private 9obt
Total Outstanding 4 Disbursed                            4.1
RATE OF EXCIUIGZ
IBRD/IDA LENDING APRIL 2  1980  US  millio)
1975                   1976                     1977                     1978                                                   IBRD      IDA
'S51OO-FMG214.32        US'1.0O.OFMC238.96       USS1.0OFMCR245.67       US'. OO.MS2Z5 64 Outstanding & Disburee                        28.74   96.66
'C1. O0US$O 0047        FMGl.00USSO 0042        FM!l.00USS0.0041        nGl.OOiJS$O. 0044 Umilburoed                                    3.06  143.53
Outstatnig Inlding Wjiebured               31 * 80  240.19
e.I  and staff estinatee.
i/ Includes errors nd omissions, SD. allocations and other private abort term capital.
2i Estimated ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor service.
3/ Net foreign assets of the bantng systm.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of April 2, 1980) 1/
Loan or                                                            US$ Million
Credit                                                        (net of cancellations)
Number      Year      Borrower       Purpose        Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
Seven Credits and four Loans
have been fully disbursed                         25.83      64.25         -
322-MAG  1972       Madagascar Irrigation                    15.30       2.24
506-MAG  1974           "I     Livestock II                   9.60        7.05
1065-MAG  1974           "       Forestry           6.75                   3.06
641-MAG  1976           "      Highways IV                   22.00       11.62
663-MAG  1976                   Education II                 14.00 2/   11.80
817-MAG  1978                  Andekaleka
Hydroelectric               43.00 3/   36.32
881-MAG  1979                  Mangoky                       12.00      12.00
903-MAG  1979                  Railways II                   13.00 4/   13.00
938-MAG  1979                  Highways V                    24.00      24.00
-MAG  1980                  Industrial Bank                5.00 5/    5.00
-MAG  1980                  Water/Sanitation             20.50 5/   20.50
TOTAL                                   32.58    242.65       146.59
of which has been repaid                 .78      2.46
TOTAL now outstanding                   31.80    240.19
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                -          -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA          31.80    240.19
TOTAL Undisbursed                        3.06    143.53       146.59
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of April 2, 1980)
Loan       Equity      Total
(US$ Million)
1977      Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga    11.0             0.29      11.29
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
3/   Including a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million approved on
January 29, 1980 but not yet signed.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 322-MAG:      Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project;
US$15.3 million credit of June 30, 1972; Date of
Effectiveness: April 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initially, the project was to rehabilitate and extend, in the
Morondava area, existing irrigation systems, and develop 9,300 ha (4,700 ha
for smallholder rice, 2,700 ha for a tobacco state farm and 1,900 ha for a
cotton state farm); village development, roads, schools and health facilities
were included. The project as revised and substantially reduced in February
1976 will complete major civil works envisaged at appraisal, implement on-
farm development works on 2,500 ha of rice areas, establish an applied
research station, and provide agricultural support services, roads and health
facilities.
Major civil works (including construction of a diversion weir at
Dabara, rehabilitation of the Dabara Canal and the North Canal, construction
of secondary irrigation and drainage canals, and construction of the 8.1 km
road between Mahabo and Ankilivalo) are almost completed and work has been
satisfactory. However, SODEMO, the agency responsible for on-farm development
and agricultural services, faces serious management and financial problems and
as a result, on-farm development and construction works have lagged behind
schedule and agricultural production is poorly organized, with a small area
cultivated and very low yields. The Government and IDA have agreed on a plan
of action to clarify SODEMO's responsibilities and financial plan and to
improve overall management, but this will require careful monitoring in the
coming months. The closing date was recently extended to allow SODEMO time to
carry out the project as it has been revised and to permit land development,
which has just begun.
Credit No. 506-MAG:      Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:
US$9.6 million credit of August 21, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: June 17, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project encountered serious problems in the three years follow-
ing credit signature, and, principally because of legal and organizational
difficulties, little progress was made. Following significant changes in
institutional and management arrangements, the Credit Agreement was exten-
sively amended; the Amended Agreement became effective September 1, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
The project's situation is much improved.  FAFIFAMA, the principal
project implementing agency, is now well-established and operational, with
a full staff complement. Implementation of the project's most important
component - the development of veterinary and livestock services for village
producers - is proceeding well. Pasture improvement experiments are being
undertaken. Schools and health centers are being constructed, and the Ministry
of Health is preparing a utilization plan for the health centers. The develop-
ment of water points and road improvement continue satisfactorily. Cooperation
with fokonolona institutions in all aspects of FAFIFAMA's work is excellent.
In the middle west, OMBY continues to provide machine services to villages
surrounding the ranches established under the IBRD-financed Beef Cattle
Development Project. The pilot pig program and ODEMO cattle share fattening
programs have barely begun, with action limited to construction of some
buildings. Financing and administration arrangements have been worked out,
however, and the share fattening program should get underway shortly. The pig
program would be launched in early 1980 with cooperatives and on the basis of
breeding pigs to be imported. The study of cattle marketing and meat prices
has been completed and is being reviewed; so are the evaluation of the current
project and the preparation report of the second phase.
Loan No. 1065-MAG:       Mangoro Forestry Project; US$6.75 million loan and
Credit No. 525-MAG       US$6.75 million credit both of December 23, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists in the planting of 35,000 ha of pine plantations
as part of an overall planting program of 96,000 ha, which it is proposed will
eventually supply a future pulp mill to provide pulp for export. The planting
program is progressing according to the schedule and cost estimates are in
line with forecasts, despite a reorganization of the project which entails
more building and infrastructure than originally estimated, and the need for
more intensive soil preparation than foreseen at appraisal. Technical diffi-
culties which occurred at the early stages of the project have been resolved.
Credit No. 641-MAG:      Fourth Highway Project; US$22.0 million credit of
June 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas
with a high agricultural potential. It also includes training and strengthen-
ing of the country's road maintenance organization. Project implementation
is satisfactory.  However, start of the training program for personnel in the
Ministry of Public Works on highway maintenance has been delayed.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 663-MAG:       Second Education Project; US$14.0 million credit of
December 10, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 15,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing
educational control and to improve the quality of basic education. It in-
cludes five Regional Education Centres and vehicles for school inspectorate,
one Teaching Materials Production Centre and funds for textbook development,
technical assistance and fellowships.
Architectural design work on all project institutions is now com-
plete. Detailed operational planning for the Teaching Materials Production
Centre is being carried out. The two key technical advisors for this Centre,
provided by the Organization for Rehabilitation through Training arrived in
Madagascar during September 1977. Architectural work has generally been well
executed although this has taken much longer than expected. Work on the major
project components, the Regional Education Centres, was completed about 14
months behind the appraisal schedule, although with ORT assistance, the plan-
ning schedule for the Teaching Materials Production Centre has been maintained.
The project is presently about one year behind schedule due to cum-
bersome Government approval/decision procedures, and the Government's recent
proposals for the "socialisation" of the construction industry has introduced
a further element of uncertainty which may adversely affect project imple-
mentation.  Serious delays have also been encountered on:  the preparation
of an educational sector survey; the establishment of task forces for educa-
tion evaluation; proposals for decentralization of education; and textbook
production.
Norway requested a 50 percent participation in the project, and an
agreement to that effect was signed on December 16, 1977.
Credit No. 817-MAG:       Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$43.0 million
credit of June 19, 1978 (including a supplementary
credit of US$10 million approved on January 29, 1980
but not yet signed); Date of Effectiveness: May 30,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project would meet the growth in electricity demand until
1992 in the Antananarivo area and provide for the strengthening of JIRAMA,
Madagascar's national electricity and water corporation. It includes a
concrete diversion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel, underground
power house, tailrace and access tunnels; two turbines and two generators;
electrical and mechanical equipment; a transmission line to Antananarivo;
engineering services; preliminary investigation and design for a storage
reservoir; and technical assistance and training for JIRAMA staff.
Contracts have been awarded for the civil works and all major
equipment and supplies. Total project costs are about 20 percent higher
than estimated at appraisal. However, even at the higher cost, the Project
is still the least-cost solution for the supply of power in Madagascar.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 881-MAG:       Mangoky Agricultural Development Project;
US$12.0 million credit of May 17, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: March 17, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Project would support the development of about 3,700 ha for
production of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families. It would
complete an irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower Mangoky
Valley which has been under development since the early 1960s. These invest-
ments are based on a long-term master plan for the region which aims ultimately
to bring about 100,000 ha of land into production. The Project will be imple-
mented over a five-year period and would comprise: development of irrigation
and drainage networks, and road infrastructure for 3,300 ha including produc-
tion of concrete canal segments; improvement of water supply for about 400 ha
of traditional rice fields; consultant services for design and supervision;
applied agricultural research; social infrastructure; training and project
preparation for agriculture and rural development projects. IFAD is financing
about 25 percent of the total project cost.
Credit No. 938-MAG:       Fifth Highway Project; US$24.0 million credit of
July 30, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: March 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Project would prevent further deterioration of the paved high-
way network, thus reducing transport cost and avoiding early and costly
reconstruction works. It would also increase the maintenance capacity of
the Ministry of Public Works and provide for an all-weather road connection
between the regional district of Antomboka and the capital, Antananarivo.
Co-financing will be provided by a European Economic Community Special Action
Account credit of US$10 million.
Credit No. 903-MAG:       Second Railway Project; US$13.0 million credit
of June 25, 1979; Terminal Date of Effectiveness:
June 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The objectives of the Project are to help the Malagasy railway
company renew and modernize its facilities, improve the reliability and
efficiency of its operations and improve its financial management and
accounting methods. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique provided
US$20.5 million in co-financing. The terminal date of effectiveness has
been extended to June 1, 1980 to allow for signature of the subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and the railway company.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No.    -MAG:       Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) Project; US$5.0 million
(not yet signed)
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will support Madagascar's growing industrial sector
and BNI's crucial development role by providing BNI with part of its foreign
exchange requirements to finance projects in the artisanal/small-scale and
medium-scale enterprise sectors and by strengthening BNI itself through
technical assistance. The credit was approved on January 29, 1980 but is
not yet signed.
Credit No.    -MAG:       Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project;
US$20.5 million (not yet signed);
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project will increase access to treated water for the Antananarivo
urban population and improve sanitation conditions. The credit was approved on
April 1, 1980 but is not yet signed.



ANNEX III
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Supplementary Prolect Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:             8 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                       Government and IDA
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA                March 1979
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:            November 1979
(e)  Negotiations completed:                    March 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             August 1980
Section II - Special IDA implementation action:
On January 11, 1980 an advance of US$350,000 under the Project
Preparation Facility was granted to the Government to cover OMNIS'
expenditures for the services of consultants after January 1, 1980
and before credit signing.
Section III - Special Conditions:
(a) A condition for disbursing funds for the Tsimiroro heavy
oil engineering is that the preliminary assessment con-
clude, to the satisfaction of OMNIS and the Association,
that the engineering study is warranted (para. 51(c)).
(b) A condition for disbursing funds for the seismic survey
is for the exploration consultants to prepare a detailed
program satisfactory to OMNIS and IDA (para. 51(b)).
(e) The proceeds of the sales by OMNIS of some of the data
collected during project implementation would be kept in
a special account and used for further petroleum explora-
tion (para. 55).



ANNEX IV
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Tentative Schedule of Implementation
Exploration Promotion
Completion of draft model agreements and petroleum law           April 1980
Approval of petroleum law by National Assembly                   June 1980
Submission of program for reconnaissance seismic survey          August 1980
Call for bids for reconnaissance seismic survey                  September 1980
First round of acreage bidding                                   September 1980
Signature of first agreements with companies                     January 1981
Beginning of reconnaissance seismic                              April 1981
Second round of acreage bidding                                  January 1982
Completion of reconnaissance seismic                             September 1982
Third round of acreage bidding                                   January 1983
Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
Employment of heavy oil consultants                              April 1980
Completion of preliminary assessment                             August 1980
Beginning of engineering study                                   September 1980
Completion of engineering study                                  March 1982
Energy Planning
Employment of consultants                                        December 1980
Preliminary report                                               June 1981
Final report                                                     October 1981



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Technical Assistance to OMNIS
This project component would provide funds for:
(i) exploration consultants (24 man-months): OMNIS would retain the
services of exploration consultants-- at the minimum a senior
petroleum geologist and a geophysicist full time for a period
of six months to assist OMNIS in:
(a) evaluating available data pertaining to conventional
petroleum exploration in the Morondava Basin onshore
and offshore, reworking and reinterpreting the data
as necessary, supervising the preparation of such maps
and cross-sections needed to clearly exhibit the
petroleum potential;
(b) devising a strategy for a continuing exploration program
which would include the locations and sizes of tracts
that may be attractive immediately and the work commit-
ment desired from operators;
(c) designing an optimal onshore reconnaissance seismic
program to uncover additional interesting leads in
the most prospective areas;
(d) together with the legal consultants (para. (ii) below),
preparing a contractual framework for the participation
of foreign oil companies;
(e) administering acreage bidding (including definition
of the permits, preparation of data packages, adver-
tising of the bidding, evaluation and comparison of
the bids); and
(f) together with the legal consultants, negotiating
with companies.
Following the first six months of their assignment, the exploration
consultants would provide OMNIS with follow-up advice on a periodic
basis over a two-year period.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
(ii) legal consultants (5 man-months): OMNIS would engage a legal
firm to assist in the preparation of the legal framework and
model contracts and in the negotiations with companies; this
work would be performed in collaboration with the exploration
consultants.
(iii) geological/geophysical consultants (72 man-months): OMNIS would
hire an experienced petroleum geologist and a geophysicist
(seismic interpreter) to work full time for two and a half years
on the interpretation of existing or newly acquired data, as well
as a field geophysicist to represent OMNIS on a contract seismic
crew and monitor data quality. The field geophysicist and
seismic interpreter would work closely together to ensure
quality control on the output of the contract seismic crew;
(iv) heavy oil specialists (6 man-months): OMNIS would retain a
specialized firm to assess the Tsimiroro heavy oil deposits;
(v) training for OMNIS personnel who would attend well logging,
formation evaluation and reservoir description courses, and
observe geochemical analyses and seismic record processing;
(vi) geochemical analysis by a specialized laboratory of a repre-
sentative sample of all shale and limestone cores and cuttings
from wells not previously analyzed to identify the most
prospective plays. The question of whether the Middle Jurassic
and Cretaceous shales are or can be an oil source is most
important to answer; and
(vii) equipment: field vehicles as well as office and laboratory
equipment to support the work of the consultants.



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Hydrocarbon Geology
1.        Hydrocarbons are generated by living "debris" that have fallen on
the seafloor and have been covered by layers of sediments. As thick sediments
with such an organic content ("source" rocks) progressively sink and eventually
fold and fracture, the hydrocarbons migrate upwards until they are trapped in
"reservoir" rocks properly structured and sealed by impermeable "cover" rocks.
However, hydrocarbon generation depends on many environmental factors and only
a fraction of hydrocarbons generated over time accumulate in sizeable quantities,
while a larger portion migrate to the surface and disappear.
2.        Therefore, marine sedimentation basins of a certain extent and
thickness promise petroleum prospects a priori, while accumulation of oil and
gas are the evidence a posteriori of a successful completion of the generation/
migration/trapping process over geological ages.
3.        However, traps filled by oil and gas are normaly scarce "anomalies"
of extremely small dimensions in comparison with the extent and volume of the
containing basin. Their direct finding by well drilling, the only presently
available method to detect the presence of hydrocarbons, would thus have a
very low probability of success and would be excessively hazardous and expensive.
4.        Exploring for oil and gas is therefore a lengthy search for informa-
tion which leads to the understanding of the generation/migration process and
to the identification of the in-depth geometry of sediments. A step by step
approach is followed using existing methods which are being perfected and
whose relative performance, accuracy and costs are in direct proportion:
-    geological survey (pre-reconnaissance) to identify and
select potentially promising basins or areas within basins,
-    large-grid geophysical surveys (reconnaissance) consisting
mainly of field or airborne magnetometry and gravimetry, and
seismic lines, associated with a few stratigraphic wells
(wildcat) to obtain a better correlation of data, with the
view to developing "leads" and identifying "prospects" on
selected areas,
-    detailed seismic surveys of the most promising prospects to
delineate structural traps, and eventually,
-    well drilling to prove the presence of hydrocarbons in these
traps.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
After a discovery is made, reservoir conditions and field reserves are
appraised by further drilling and production tests to assess whether
development would be feasible under given economic conditions.
5.        In reality, these activities overlap, but the scheme applies either
to unexplored basins or to deeper horizons in a basin where only shallower
sediments have been explored. Over past decades, exploration efforts were
concentrated on shallow depth objectives whose exploration was relatively
inexpensive and could be carried out with existing techniques. As time passed
and techniques improved, exploration has moved to more difficult prospects in
new basins as well as in deeper horizons of previously explored basins, where
more costly exploration is now justified by the anticipated shortage of
petroleum world resources and prevailing prices.
6.        Although discoveries have been made and will continue to be made
early in the exploration cycle, exploration in its initial phases remains
essentially an obstinate quest for information, for which a price has to be
paid. In this respect, exploratory drilling as well as seismic are complemen-
tary in bringing about information, and each well has informative merits,
irrespective of its success or failure to strike oil.
7.        When exploration results fall below initial expectations, the
decision to abandon an area does not mean that there is no potential for oil,
but rather that this potential is currently considered by the operator less
attrative than alternative prospects. Many important discoveries have been
made on areas which had been relinquished by reputable companies, mainly
because a new operator had a different interpretation of the results produced
by previous exploration.
8.        Exploration programs have consequently to be assessed and designed
in view of their main objective - developing information or finding oil -
which to a large extent depends on the stage of past exploration and is a
function of the resources available to the operator.
a.   The rationale for exploring new basins of deeper horizons is
to clarify their potential and develop "leads" for further
detailed exploration for oil. Areas to be explored are selected
on the basis of geological/geophysical surveys and initial
wells, if any, on the likely evidence that all the elements
which are necessary for the generation and accumulation of
hydrocarbons are present (source and reservoir rocks). Programs
are therefore designed to maximize the collectin of valuable
information within a given budget. When the information
gathered is sufficiently attractive, then the operator will
start looking for oil, either by itself or in seeking partners.
b.   Exploration for oil and gas in already known basins pursues
objectives and follows leads previously identified. Objectives
are structural traps or extension of trends which are producing



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
locally or nearby. In this process, operators move generally from
prospects which have the highest "expected economic value" towards
more and more marginal prospects, whose development is justified by
the existence of infrastructure.
It should be pointed out, however, that the exploration of a producing basin
may lead to the identification of new "leads" which would then justify a new
round of exploration of the "information collection" type until the new
prospects have been proved productive or have to be abandoned.



ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Glossary of Geologic Terms
Source Rock:              Those sedimentary rock formations which are either
known or thought to have retained the organic debris
which under conditions of burial (heat, pressure and
time) are transformed into either oil or gas; usually
shale (compacted clay) or fine grained carbonate
(limestone).
Reservoir Rock:           Those rock formations which have retained after
burial sufficient porosity and permeability (pore
space connections) to contain fluids; either oil,
gas or water.
Trap:                     A barrier to the migration of fluids through a
reservoir rock; may result from structural movement
or lateral change in reservoir characteristics.
Reef:                     A build-up of carbonate rocks (limestone or dolomite)
consisting of a particular assemblage of organic
skeletal material formed in warm, nonturbid seas;
following burial forms a unique type of reservoir
and trap.
Diapir, diapiric:         A flowage of plastic sedimentary rocks, usually salt
or undercompacted shales (those which retain a high
fraction of formation water relative to depth of
burial), caused by an inversion in the specific
gravity of rocks with depth (light below heavy);
diapiric relates to structuring developed when
diapirs are present or to the cause of the diapir,
i.e., diapiric shale.
Facies:                   Descriptive of sedimentary rocks of a common compo-
sition deposited in a particular manner; may apply
to both general and/or specific conditions of
deposition.



ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
Anticline:                A term indicating a discrete positive (high) closure,
usually an upward arching of sediments caused by
compressional forces within the earth; often used to
denote any type of positive closure which may be the
result of drape over buried topography or residual
structure bounded by areas of negative closure
(syncline); with regional or nondiscrete positive
closures, the term arch is more common.
Horst (Horst Block):      A fault bounded structurally high block in which
movement involved crystalline basement rock as well
as overlying sedimentary rocks.
Graben (trough):          A fault bounded structurally low block in which
movement involves crystalline basement rock as well
as overlying sedimentary rocks; grabens are normally
associated with and adjacent to horsts.
Rift:                     Similar to graben except used on a more regional
scale such as rift system when associated grabens
and minor intervening horsts are included in the
overall rift (system).
Unconformity:             A surface of divergence in the attitude between an
underlying and overlying sequence of sedimentary
rocks caused by structural movement and/or a change
in the character of the depositional environment of
the overlying sediments or involving a hiatus in
deposition and a period of erosion of the underlying
sediments.
Transgression:            The invasion of the sea (introducing a marine
environment of deposition) over an existing sub-
aerial surface caused either by subsidence or a
worldwide rise in sea level; sediments deposited
during transgression are called a transgressive
facies and tend to be widespread in extent.
Progradation:             The deposition of sediments in a seaward direction
and outbuilding of shoreline, ultimately resulting
in nonmarine sediments overlying marine, due to
worldwide (lowering sea level due to uplift or
worldwide fall in sea level), rapid influx of
sediments into a static sea level, or at a rate
exceeding a rise in sea level.
Intrusive:                A crystalline igneous rock injected in a fluid
phase into preexisting rocks, either igneous,
metamorphic or sedimentary.



ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
Dike,                     An intrusive body of crystalline rock whose geometry
is tabular with a vertical or near vertical attitude,
i.e., if the preexisting rock is sedimentary, cuts
across bedding planes.
Sill:                     An intrusive body of crystalline rock whose geometry
is tabular with a horizontal or near horizontal
attitude, i.e., if preexisting stock is sedimentary
is parallel to bedding planes.
Play:                     A grouping of petroleum prospects in which the type
of trap as well as age and composition of reservoir
and source rocks (independently) are believed to be
common; synonomous with "trend" if and when prospects
become productive fields.
Show:                     A positive indication of the presence of oil and/or
gas either in the subsurface (wells) or at the
surface from seeps, notes from surface samples,
drill cuttings, subsurface cores or fluid recovery;
shows may vary widely both quantitatively and quali-
tatively.
Karroo:                   A thick, generally nonmarine sedimentary rock
sequence found in the sub-Sahara of Africa ranging
in age from the Paleozoic Carboniferous through
Mesozoic Triassic and into the Mesozoic Lower
Jurassic; precise age determination often difficult
and thus lumped into general term "Karroo".
Paleozoic:                The system of sedimentary rock occupying the early
ages of the geologic time scale comprising the
Cambrian, Ordovician, Devonian, Silurian, Carboni-
ferous and Permian Periods; the Paleozoic system is
typified by an invertebrate fauna but witnessed the
evolution of fish and near the shore primitive
reptiles as well and a flora evolving through algae,
ferns and primative conifers; the pre-Cambrian
system, consisting principally of nonsedimentary
rocks and occasionally sedimentary rocks deficient
in fossils, underlies the Paleozoic.
Mesozoic:                 The system of sedimentary rocks occupying the middle
ages of the geologic time scale, comprising the
Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous Periods; the
Mesozoic system is typified by a repetition of fauna
and a coniferous flora which overlies the older
Paleozoic system and underlies the Cenozoic system
(Tertiary, Quartenary and Recent).






or~~~~i
N-  t7~~~~~-
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
0~~~~~~~
JIltI
IHWU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



