Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CLkk y                           77w.'( 
Report No. 11539-TA
STri APPRAISAL REPORT
TUE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANrIA
TEMRD TELECONNNCATIONS PROJECT
APRIL 2, 1993
z        1   '   '-;  ,   ''i to.,(.. t    
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department, Africa Region
This document has a retsfid  atbdisnd may be used by repin ony In the perfomance of
Ihir offiW dutis Its contents may not dthwI,. be discld witt World Bank aauorIato



Curreacy Unit   Tanzanan Shillg
Tsh 1.0 = US$0.003
US$ 1.0 - Tsh 32S
IdISCAL YER
Jamn y I to December 31
ADB          Africa Dovelopment Bank
DANDA        Danish Development Agc3y
DDGT         Deputy Director General Tdecom
DEL          Direct Exchang Line
EAC          Eas Africa  Community
EEC          Commission of the Eurpean Communities
ELP          Exte:nl Line Plat
ERP          Economic Recovery Program - 1986
ERR          Eoenomic Rat of Retum
ESAP         Economic and Social Action - 1989-1992
FRR          Financial Rt of Retum
GOR          Gross    ting Revenue
GOT          Govemment of the Republic of Tanzaia
CB           Intematonal Competitive Bidding
IDA          Internatil Developmet Association
ItR          itenal Rate of Return
.'CA         Japane Development A"ecy
LAN          Loca  Area Network
LCB          Local Codmpitive Bidding
MIS          Management Information System
MOC          Ministty of Transport ana Comnicatio
MOu          Memorandum of Undetnding
PANAFTEL  Pan AfiicB Telecommunication Network
PRY          Project Implementation Unit
PMU          Proect Monioring Unit
PPF          Proect Prepaaion Facility
PIT          Post and Telecommunieions Organization
SAP          SRctural Adjustment Pgram - 1982
SIDA         Swedish Development Coopation Office
SOB          Staement of Expenditure
TDP          Tjtal Demand Potential
TPTC         Talzania Pots and Telecommunications
TRP          Tdecoms Recovery Program
MESRES
Metric System
This report is based on (1) preparaton and apprail missions in April and November 1991 and May and October
1992 and (2) a report prepared by a consulfing fim in 1991. The report was prepared by Mr. Markku Karisnen
(Egn), Mr. Raja Bas# (Fnnial Analyst, Ms. Ann 1_ee (rask Manager), and Md. Miay Nash (Sff Assistan)
in (AFTEI) and Mr. Ibge Vabo (exral consultant).  The lead advisor for the project was Ms. Shaah Torabi and
th peor reviws Mr. M&snunad Mustaf and Mr. David LImax (AFTlE) and the Tannian Couny Team. The
Sector Division Chief is Mr. Robert Hindle, the Country Division Chief Mr. Michaol Carter and the Couny Director
Mr. Francis Colaco.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
UND BEBLIM O TAMA
THID TLJECOMWNCATJONS PRO JCT
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary .........................................  iv
1. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECaOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY..                                        2
A. INTRODUCTION .2
Role of Telecommunications in Economic Development.                           2
Current Stams.                                                                2
Sector Policy.                                                                3
Secor Strategy.                                                               3
Private Investment in the Sector.                                             6
A Regulatory Framework.                                                       6
Institutional Resnuctung: Corporatiaon and Comerciaiation of TPTC  ...  7
Rehabiitation and Expansion of the Basic Telecommnications Network.           7
Resource Mobilization and Cost Recovery in the Sector.                        7
Previous World Bank Involvement in the Sector.                                8
Rationale for World Bank Involvement.                                         9
n. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR   .                              .11
A. INTRODUCTION .11
B.   CUSTOMER REOUIREMENTS ..........                    ....................  11
Accessto Service ........................................   11
Existing Facilities ..............   .........................  12
Quality of Service  .......................................  12
Demand for Service ......................................  13
Ct.   SECTOR                                                        ...................................... 13
D. THE OPERATING ENTIY .14
Tariff Policy .15
Billing and CoUection .16
Audit, Audit Controls, andFinancialAccounts .16
Management                                                                    17
Management Sse and Computizaon.17
Stffing, Traiing, an Compnsaon .18
Customer Orientation .19
m. THEPROGRAM AND. R.20
A. THEEQQA. PM.20
Steps Already Taken.20
B. THE PROJECT .20
Project Objectives .20
Project Description .21
Project Costs .25
Project Financing .27
This document has a estricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the perforance
of thoir offcial duties. Its contents may not otherarie be disclosed widhout World BIIk authozeOQ.|



C.   PROCUREMENT AND IMPLEMENTATN  . .................                      28
Procurement .28
Disbursemnent .3
Project Phasing   .........................................   31
TPTC Management .31
Performance Indicators .33
Regional Coordination .34
D. ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH EFFECTS .34
IV. FENANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .                        .                    35
A. Financial.                                                               35
Past Financial Performance                                             35
B.   Finncial Pojections and Restruct.ring Stra..av                         36
Financi Goals .36
Key Steps Necessary for Improvement of Financial Performance .36
C. Financial Projections .38
D. Financial and Economic Ra of Returns .39
Sensitivity Analysis .40
Benefits .40
Risks .41
Least Cost Solution .42
V. AGREE NTS REACHED AND RECOM.MENDATION                                          43
Agreements Reached at Negotiations .43
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness .44
Conditions for Disbursement.                                           45
Recommendation.                                                        45



- iii 
ANNEXES AND CHARTS
1-1  Draft Sector Policy Statement
2-1  Existing Telecommunications Facilities
2-2  Demand Potential and Estimated Growth in Demand
2-3 Ministerial Directive and Memorandum of Understanding
2-4   Negotiations Performance Targets to be Agreed Upon at Negotiations
2-5  TPTC Organization Chart
2-6  Training Courses Offered by the Staff College
3-1  Investment Program (1992-1995)
3-2   Detailed Project Description
3-3 Project Financing Plan
3-4  Schedule of Disbursements
3-5  Implementation Schedule
3-6  Environmental Summary and Mitigation Plan
4-1   TPTC's Income Statements and Balance Sheets (Historic)
4-2 TPTC's Forecast Financial Statements
4-3  Financial Projections Including Equity infusion
Map Number: 23747
Documents in Proiect File
Donors Conference - Organization and Implementation of TRP
- Plan for Split of Corporation
Delegation of Authority
Procuctivity Based Incentive Scheme
Statement of Affairs
Tanzania Telecom II Project Completion Report
Tanzania Telecom II - Assessment of Consultants
Technical Assistance - Terms of Reference



- iv -
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
TIDTELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
CRDIT AND PROJECT SUMARY
Borrower:  United Republic of Tanzania
Beficiy: Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
Amoun&:   SDR 53.6 Million (US$ 74.45 million equivalent)
Ternis:    Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity
Qjding  The Goverment will lend US$ 74.45 million to the Government of Tanzania on
Terms:    standard IDA terms. Of this, US$20 million will be invested in TPTC as equity by
GOT and US$ 53.50 mrillion will be on lent to TPTC at 8% interest rate for 20
years including 5 years of grace on repayment of principal. TPTC will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project    To achieve its mission in the medium term the GOT has identified three key
Qbi_ctives  objectives for the sector. The first is to ensure that efficiency and finanja viabili
drive sector development. The second is to eliminate the existing bottenecks in the
availability of telecommunication services to business subscribers in key areas of
economic imporance. The third is to optimze the availability and effectiveness of
public and private resources invested in the sector. Three building blocks provide
the base from which these objectives will be carried out: 1) establishment of a
market-oriented regulatory and policy framework; legalizing and requiring a
regulatory body to license private opeators to provide non-basic services in
Tanzania; and developing an action plan to secure private investment in basic
services in the medium term; 2) commercialization and corporatization in the state-
owned monopoly provider of basic telecommunication services; and 3) rehabilitation
and expansion of the basic local and long distance telecommunication network.
Project    The proposed project consists of:
(a)  the establishment of a market-oriented regulatory and policy frmework and
creation of an appropriate environment for private sector participation;
(b)  a program to build TTC's institutional capacity through technical assistance
for the purpose of improving project management, financial management and
control, auditing procedures, materials management, and operations and
maintenane; moderizing TPTC's accounting and financial systems and
procedures as well as its billing and collection system, implementg priority
computer systems and human resource development for TPTC; and to
augment TPTC's implzmentation capacity through a performance contract
with external consultant to implement new works; and



(c)   a physical development program including rehabilitation of existing facilities;
supply, installation and commissioning of new exchanges and matching
external line plant in Dar-es-Salaam and major cities with priority given to
business subscribers; expansion of 1o0.g distance transmission links; expansion
of the junction network in Dar-Es-Salaam using radio link systems and optical
fibre systems and supply small capaUity radio link systems in the rural areas;
and provision of telephone instrwnents, vehicles and ancillary equipment.
Project         Investments are focussed on improving TPTC's financial and economic
Benfits         returns by creating a market-oriented envirownent within the sector,
and Risks:      commercializing TPTC, rehabilitating and improving utilization of existing
assets and expanding services in high demand areas to maximize the
utilization of TPTC's existing facilities and thereby by upgrading Tanzania's
telecommunications facilities, the project will alleviate a major infrastructure
constraint to the sustainability of the country's economic devilopment and
adjustment. Furthermore, the institution building and strengthening of
TPTC's management systems will result in improved financial performance
and encourage private investment. The principal risks are the potentially slow
pace of institutional development within sector and inadequate or tardy
resolution of the current billing problems. These risks have been minimized
by the Bank's requirement of upfront actions by the Government and TPTC
(management performance contract, tariff increases, employee incentive
scheme, delegation of authority, etc.) Risks during the project will be
minimized by additional World Bank conditions on restructuring the sector
and institutions and agreement on timely installation of a new billing system
with appropriate controls. In addition, an annual review of TPTC's
achievements by the Government and the Bank will be required and wiU
provide a framework to ensure satisfactory implementation of the institutional
and physical components of the proposed project.
EFsimated Project Costs:
Loca        Foreign       Total
-IJS$ Million Equivalent-
1.   Telephone Exchanges                        2.04      27.43          29.47
2.   Extemal Line Plant                        5.93        55.35         61.28
3.   Transmission                              8.67       48.17          56.84
4.   Upgrade Std. A Earth Sation               0.00         0.50          0.50
5.   Telephones and Teleprinters               0.00         2.28          2.28
6.   Power and A/C                             0.50         3.50          4.00
7.   Buildings                                 3.00         0.00          3.00
8.   Vehicles                                  0.10         1.50          1.60
9.A. Training - MOC                              .00         .20           .20
9.B  Traiing - TPTC                             1.70        2.80          4.50
10. Consultancy - TPTC                         2.76        14.02         16.78
11. Consultancy - MOC                                      0.75           0.75
12. Postal                                     1.70        2.80           4.50
13. Computers                                  0.00        5.72           5.72
Base Cost                                26.39      165.04         191.42
Physical Cantin cy                        1.32        8.23           9.56
Pioe Contingency                          2.64       16.45          19.12
30.40      189.7,        220.10



- vi -
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN:
LOCal         Foreign   Total
-US$ Million Equivalent-
IDA                                                 74.4   74.4
ADB                                                  45.9   45.9
EEC                                                  17.2   17.2
DANEDA                                                8.3    8.3
JICA                                                  2.2    2.2
SIDA                                                41.7   41.7
TTrc                                30.4             -      304
Total                               2Q4             189.7  22u.1
EST4ATDi1    DISBURSEMT SCHEDULE
BDA' FRY    19   1294  1995  1996  1227  1998  1999  2000  2001
Aniual        .8*   4.2  11.2  14.7  14.3  11.6   8.5   4.6   3.7
Cumulative    1.6   5.8  17.0  31.7  46.0  57.6  66.1  70.7  74.4
'mcluding PMF Disbursem
Rate of Return: Financial = 27%
Economic = 48%
MM 23747:



1. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PEVEWPMEN STRATEGY
A. INTRODUCTION
1.01       In 1967, Tanzania's leadership embarked on an era of socialism and introduced
sweeping economic and social changes. They sought a path of self determination with the goal of
making public sector activity the primary means of achieving economic development. By the end
of the 1970's, however, the economy was faltering. A turing point was reached in 1984 when
the Governmuent of Tanzania (GOT), faced with economic stagnation, introduced a new, more
pragmatic economic plan. In 1986, the Government introduced a comprehensive Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) followed by an Economic and Social Action Program (ESAP) in 1989.
Tanzania's main economic development objectives under these programs are to achieve a 5%
growth rate; lower the inflation rate; restore a sustainable balance of payments position;
rebabilitate and improve the provision of social services; and improve the effectiveness of external
assistance. Tanzania's strategy to fulfill these objectives is to shift from a centrally planned
system to a dynamic, market-oriented economy.
Role of Telecommunicatlois in Economic Develoneut
1.02       A reasonably reliable telecommunications sector is crucial to the sustained economic
recovery of Tanzania. The main linkages between telecommunications and economic recovery
are (a) the requirements of business and government in a market economy for timely, accurate,
and reliable information to determine the state of play in the market, to identify potential
customers and suppliers, and to determine competitive prices; (b) telecommunications as a prime
medim for transmitting information quickly, cheaply, and easily; (c) the cost to the economy of
foregone economic opportunities due to an inadequate and unreliable domestic and international
telecommunication network; (d) the financial cost to the GOT of operating a loss-making
telecommunications network; -and (e) the sector's importance as a major foreign exchange earner.
Reliable communication capabilities are especially important for financial, tourism, ming,
transport, service, and export-oriented business activities in Tanzania and are becoming
increasingly important in the sale and distribution of agrcultural products.
Cvm staS
1.03       The existing telecommunications infastmcture in Tanzania has grossly insufficient
capacity and a very poor quality of service. In 1991, .3% of Tanzanians had telephones or 25%
less than the average percentage of the population owning telephones in Sub-Saharan Africa. In
addition, only 60-70% of the installed phones actually worked. Fault rates are 30 times higher
than those in developed countries. The call completion rate for inter-urban and incoming
international calls is below 20% versus an average of 60 - 70% in industrialized countries. The
severe shortage of telephones in Tanzania and the poor service quality poses a major constaint to
the growth of private businesses or more efficient operations and can thus compromise Tanna's
economic recovery. The financial position of the sector is quite weak. The Tanzanian Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (TPTCI)/, the main operator, was insolvent by 1988 due to a
I'rP>TC meaw Tanzania Posts and Teecommunicaions Corporation, established purwsam to te Tanzanian Posts and
Telecommunications Act, No.15 of 1977. It also refes to any succesor entity or enies which may be established by the
Government of Tanzana to cary out dte fuins an nsponsibiles of TPM. At the time of the split of posts and
teecommunicaions, it is undemood that the new ta nd postl endties will enter into asmption agreemnts where
the new endties agree to enter ito the obligations of bte old company.



-2-
lack of tariff increases, substantial foreign exchange losses, and operational inefficiencies. The
financial position has improved since 1991 with 300 - 500% increases in tariffs, conversion to
equity of US$ 34 million of debt owed by TPTC to GOT; and improvements in operational
efficiency.
Sector Policy
1.04        In the long term, the GOT's vision for the development of the telecommunications
sector is to provide universal access to telecommunications for all people in Tanzania whetrNer
service can be supplied on a practical and economically justified basis. These services should
satisfy all customer demand for all types of telecommunications with quality and secure services
supplied at a fair price. Given the existing low level of development in the sector, to achieve
their long term vision the GOT recognizes that in the medium term they must adopt a carefully
formulated and focussed development strategy which provides telecommunications services to
those subscribers with the highest demand and the greatest ability to pay for their services. A
draft Sector Policy Statement of the GOT's intentions for ihe sector is outlined in Annex 1-1.
Sedor Develoment Strategr
1.05        The GOT is committed in the medium term to ensuring that reasonably priced and
satisfactory quality telecommunication services are available to satisfy business demand in terms
of quantity and scope of services which will support the economic development of the country.
The GOT has identified key principles for the sector's development which will achieve their
vision. The first is to ensure that efficiency and financial and operational viabilitv drive sector
development. The second is to eliminate the existing bottlenecks in the availability of
telecommunication services to business subscribers in key areas of economic importance. The
third is to optimize the availability and effectiveness of public and private resources invested in
the sector.
1.06        The GOT has determined that the most effective means to achieve th ir development
objectives is to establish a market oriented sector structure which allows for private as well as
public sector participation and, where appropriate, competition. Taking into account existing
macroeconomic and sectoral constraints, a phased approach to sector restructuring has been
adopted. The building blocks of the GOT's plan to fulfill these objectives include:
(a)   establishing a market oriented regulators and policy environment, which includes
introducing, private sector participation in non-basic services in the near term and
developing an action plan to secure private investment in basic services in the
medium term;
(b)   commercializing and corporatizing the national operator responsible for providing
basic telecommunication services2/;
(c) expanding capacity and improving service "uality for the national network.
2/ For purposes of this reporz. basic telecommunications services means local, long distance. and international tlephone, telex, and
telegraph services. Non-basic telecomnmWnication services means all other services other than basic telecommunication services (i.e.
including pay phones, private networks, celular tlephony, value added services, paging, vsat, etc.).



GOT's TiMETABLE FOR SECTOR DEVEPMENT (Mid Term)
Component                     1992     1993    1994       1995         1996      1997     1998      1999      2000      2001
Expected Project 1ictiveness
a) Establish Regltoy EIw roumt
- Statemnd of Sector Policy
- Draft New Tlecom Law                      _
(allovs prwiae investment)
- Split Regulations from Oper.
- Estabish Regulatory Capability   *.. 
- Issue Lcense - Non Basic Serv.
o Cellular 
o Other
J2       - Action PIan on Private Invest.
I       b) haWtiod (Res&udr*
- Split Post & Telecom
3        - Corporal*zel- .C
- Det Non-Core Actvmes
o Motor Voh., Print, Cont. 
- Create Pit & Cost Centers
- Insa New Biiiing Syem
-Fkinc  Restructuring                                                                                        KEY
Is     c) Ezpad & hnae Nat Nehw                                                    :                                              Coted
;Project MW-TeRm                                                              " I                              l _ - ERiuate
0                                                                                                                          *    - Project Condition
MEMO.                                                                                                              ...   a On-Going Action
8   '    ~r~iwnt                .15
Schdule                              10
*                                             5
*1                                            0   Loan EHf.                        uTh                                           Year



-4 -
1.07       Toward this end, the GOT has approved key action items with specific dates for
completion that were agreed during negotiations (see above table). As indicated on the table, all
of the actions are scheduled to be cot apleted prior to the Project Mid Tenn Review and are an
integral part of the review. Commitment of contracts under Phase 11 of the project (US$ 25
million) are subject to satisfactory results in the Mid Term Review. (Funds being invested by
SIDA will be tranched with similar perfonnance conditions as those of IDA).
Priae Investment In tbe Sector
1.8        TPTC has authority to issue licenses for non-basic telecommunication services on
behalf of the GOT. TPTC is currenly negotiating with several interested international cellular
operators to provide cellular telephony in Tanzania. To enable such private investment in non-
basic services, the GOT will require the regulator to take all steps necessary to issue a license for
cellular operations by December 31, 1993 and for two other non-basic telecommunication services
by December 31, 1995. Customer demand for services and the related interest of private firms to
invest will determine in which market segments licenses will first be issued.3/
1.9        Under the existing environment, there appears to be XLbest limited interest from
experienced and reputable private firms to invest or operate basic telecormmunication services in
Tanzania. To enhance private investor interest in TPTC, the GOT and IPTC have actively begun
to commerciaize and corporatize TPTC and streamline its operations with the key goal of
providing TPTC with sufficient autonomy to operate in a commercial manner.
1.10       The GOT will not seek immediate privatization of TPTC. The main reasons for this
are a) the GOT has given higher priority to privatizing operations in other sectors which can be
privatized without changes in Tanzanian law; are more easily privatized; and are of more interest
to investors in their exisdng state; and b) 1 - 3 years are required to take legislative and
regulatory actions to effectively privatize basic telecommunication services.
A Re trv  Framework
1.11       Currently, telecommunication regulation and operations are both carried out by a
public monopoly, TPTC. The current legal structure does not, however, allow for private
operators in basic services, nor is there a regulatory framework or body in place with experience
in market oriented regulation.
1.12       To begin the process of establishing a market oriented regulatory and policy
enviromnent, GOT has approved a measure that will separate the policy and regulatory fumctions
from operations. Toward this end, the government has given approval for the establishment of
the regulator to be responsible for, inter alia, licensing, establishment of technical standards, and
rules for operators. The GOT will commission a consultant study to determine the detailed form
and functions of a regulator and will draw upon the study's recommendaftons in their action plan
to restructure the sector. TPTC will continue to be in charge of operations, with greater
autonomy and flexibility to engage the private sector.
yI M61ay, while she regulatot is buing its regulatoiy capabiies, key tems (service obg8ations, perfomtance targes, as wel as
connecon a_m , fequn spectRum allocaton, et.) will be embodd to dte lice.



- 5 -
Institutional Retrui: Cor2oatzadlo and Commerciaization of TPTC
1.13      Under the new teleconummunications law, TPTC will be established as a legally
separate corporation; similarly posts would be established as a public company or a separate
corporation. Effective conunercialization of TPTC requires substantially enhanced institutional,
managerial, planning, technical, operational, and financial capacity. A pre-requisite to building
TPTC's institutional capacity is provide TPTC with administrative and financial autonomy and
accountability together with technical capacity for planning and day-to-day management of their
operations. A Ministerial Directive (MD) and Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) were
signed by the GOT and TPTC in March. 1992 which establishes a performance contract between
the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOC) and TPTC and provides this autonomy.
In addition, in the past eighteen months, TPTC was restructured, domestic tariffs were increased
300-500% and international tariffs were reduced by approximately 15%, a plan for delegation of
authority and accountability was instituted, and a productivity and cost cutting incentive program
was introduced for staff and management. Initial results of the program indicate approximately
10-15% gain in productivity in the last six months of 1992. In the near term, TPTC will focus its
efforts and will be accountable for managing its on- oin core business, i.c. the opetation of the
telecommunications network. A technical assistance and training component is included in the
project to build TPTC's managerial, planning, financial, and operational capabilities. Under the
MOU, specific, quantifiable performance targets effectively track the improvement in TPTC's
performance and progress in becoming financially profitable and self-reliant.
1.14      TPTC will contract out and establish a contract with a private firn who will be
accountable for supervision of procurement and installation of the new works under the
investment program. In addition, TPTC will divest of non-core activities, including printing,
motor vehicle repair, building construction and maintenance, sale and installation of customer
premise equipment, and equipment repair. Independent consultants will perform an Annual
Efficienc Audit to assist MOC in evaluating TPTC's performance. As part of IDA's on-going
supervision, IDA will monitor TPTC's performance through these annual audits and through the
mid-term review in the 4th quarter 1995.
Rehabilitation and Exoamnon of the Basic Telecommunications Network
1.15      The growing customer demand requires that the geographical coverage of the
network be expanded to urban and rural areas, that the capacity within regions be increased to
support business and residential customers more fully that the variety of services available be
expanded, and that the quality of services be substantially improved. The Government, with
assistance from consultants, defined a US$ 448 million program for expanding and rehabilitating
the network over the next five years. This investment was subsequently downsized so that TPTC
would have the technical, financial, and managerial capacity to implement the program. A
contr  with an external firm to manage the new works procurement and installation (see para.
1.14 ) and turn-key contracts with suppliers will be used to expand TPTC's absorptive capacity
substantially and increase the rate with which telecommunication demand can be satisfied. The
revised program of US$ 220.1 million provides capital investment to (i) expand
telecommuication services to priority (primarily business) subscribers in urban and rural areas,
particularly in Dar-es-Salaam, and (ii) rehabilitate the existing network to improve quality of
service and thus improve the profitability of the network.



-6-
Resource Mobilization and Cost Recovery in the Secor
I .16     At the encouragement of IDA and as a result of GOT's clear commitment to
reforming the sector, a number of donors have agreed to invest in the sector. Multi-lateral and
bi-lateral donors and IDA will provide funds to cover US$189.7 million in foreign costs within
the invesiment program. TPTC will fund local costs of approximately US$30.4 million.
1.17      From 1985 - 1990, TPTC's operating profit on telecommunication activities
increased 250%. Due primarily to unhedged foreign exchange losses and non-increases in tariffs,
however, their net income was negative. Extremely weak accounts receivable collection
performance and poor operational performance also contributed to their losses. In preparation of
this project, TPTC has taken several steps to re-establish their solvency. These include:
(a)  establishing a tariff policy consistent with cost recovery;
(b)  taking measures to begin to improve TPTC's operational efficiency;
(c)  determining specific quantifiable performance targets;
(d)  introducing an employee incentive program to increase productivity and to introduce
a customer orientation. Quantifiable performance measures have been established to
evaluate TPTC's and staff performance.
1.18      In 1992, TPTC's operating profit again improved noticeably. As a result of large
foreign exchange losses on existing debt, however, TPTC's net income remained negative. At
negotiations, GOT and TPTC agreed to take the following measures to improve TPTC's fiancial
position:
(a)  introduce more rigorous financial, cost cutting, and efficiency improving controls
throughout the organization;
(b)  improve accounts receivable collections by agreed levels each year;
(c)  improve the quality of service and the number of working lines by agreed levels
each year;
(d)  evaluate methods to charge large customers (embassies, etc.) in hard currency; and
(e)  convert $US 34 million of old TPTC debt to equity (effective as of February 1994)
and invest $US 90 million of the credit into TPTC as equity to reestablish TPTC's
capital adequacy and solvency, improve its liquidity position, and reduce its foreign
exchange exposure.
Previous World Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.19      IDA, in cooperation with other donors, has financed two previous
telecommunications projects in Tanzania. While implementation of the first project was
successful overall, a number of problems were encountered in the physical imlementation and
institutional development of TPTC during the second project. These problems were interpreted in
the light of experience gained in the supervision and project completion work done for this project
as well as IDA and World Bank telecommunication projects worldwide. The following issues as
related to TPTC have been identified:
Sectoral



(a)   a lack of clarity in the roles and responsibilities for regulation and policy operations
between the concerned Ministries and TPTC; and
(b)   a lack of private sector involvement and competition to encourage sector efficiency,
profitability, and customer responsiveness, to encourage investments in new
technologies, and to maximize capital investments;
(c)  tariff policies based on social and political rather than economic considerations;
(d) weak financial controls and audits particularly in billing and collections;
(e)  an unhedged foreign exchange position leading to accrued losses by 1991 of
Tanzanian Shilling 7.8 billion;
Operational
(f) a lack of autonomy of TPTC's board and management to take critical decisions on
tariffs, personnel policies, and financial policies necessary to achieve stated
objectives;
(g) a lack of accountability as a result of loosely defined operational (and financial)
objectives and performance targets for TPTC management and staff;
(h)  operational inefficiency exacerbated by increasing numbers of staff with low
productivity;
(i) shortage of skiled staff and appropriate training courses in management, finance,
planning, marketing, computers, and modem technologies;
Proiect InMlementation/Procurement
(j)  limited leadership in TPTC to coordinate donor investments. Consequently a myriad
of technologies were introduced resulting in an expensive, poorly configured network
with a low quality of operation that required highly skilled staff to operate; and
(k) poor donor coordination which resulted in exchanges being purchased for which
there was no outside plant.
Rationale for World Bank Involvemt
1.20       IDA has an important catalytic role. Several donors have indicated willingness to
invest in this project provided IDA takes a lead role to a) coordinate donor funding to ensure a
coheren investment program, and b) oversee institutional and sectoral reforms and monitor
project implementation. Also, IDA has significant sectoral experience, particularly in Africa.
Further, such involvement is based upon and will reinforce IDA's support to the overall
adjustment process in Tanzania.



- 8-
1.21       Through advice and investments, IDA will assist the GOT in their efforts to a)
establish a regulatory framework, b) restructre and commercialize TPTC, including promoting
private sector participation, and c) assist TPTC in the urgently needed rehabilitation and
expansion of the network. IDA conditionality is tied to GOT and TPTC fulfillment of these
efforts. IDA is actively working with the GOT to a) coordinate donor investments, b) rationalize
the network design, and c) encourage donors to allow competitive bidding for equipment and thus
make prices competitive. Approximately 80% of the program will have some form of
competitive bidding. The latter is important given the history in Tanzania of donors investing in
the sector on an ad hoc basis and as a result a proliferation of equipment and a poorly designed
network. The urgent requirements for telecommunications and the very real potential for other
donors to invest in an uncoordinated fashion are the main reasons why investments in equipment
are not being delayed until a regulatory framework is established and private sector investment is
secured.



-9.
II. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
A. INTRODUCTION
2.01       The strategic importance of the telecommunications sector rests on the growing
importance of fast, easy, reliable, and cost effective communication capabilities to the competidve
positioning of a firm and a country. The communication patterns of business and residential
subscribers necessitate a quality local, national, and international network. Business customers
(producers, distributors, and end users) depend on telecommunications as a method to
communicate effectively and to receive information.
B. CUSTOMER REOUIREMEN
2.02       In comparison with its neighbors in Sub-Saharan Africa, the state of Tanzania's
network is poor. As of December 31, 1991, approximately .3 of every 100 people in the country
had telephones. The average telephone density in industrialized countries is 120 times higher.
The estimated fault rate in Tanzania is above 60% compared with a world average of less than
one percent. For a residential subscriber, the waiting period for a telephone can exceed 20 years.
The extremely limited capacity of the network and its dilapidated state results in a highly
dissatisfied customer base. The main concerns that customers have relate to a) access to service,
b) quality of service, c) costs of service, and d) the rapidly growing demand for services.
2.03       As of December 31, 1991 Tanzania had about 78,000 direct exchange lines (DEL)
available for subscriber use. Approximately four times this number of people, however, would
like to have telephone service (see para. 2.09 - customer demand). Business subscribers, who are
typically given priority access, can wait more than one year for telephone service. Government
subscribers wait a period of weeks for a phone while residential subscribers can wait more than
20 years. The existing facilities are not only inadequate, but there is an imbalance between urban
and rural areas. Telephone service is concentrated in Dar-es-Salaam and in the other 25 regional
capitals, which accounts for about 80% of the total lines, but only 15% of the population. These
cities have an average telephone density of 1.4 lines per 100 inhabitants, compared to the national
average of 0.3 lines per 100 inhabitants. The scarcity of telephones outside major cities inhibits
the development of other sectors. The rural density is only about 0.05 lines per 100 inhabitants.
As of December 31, 1991, there were 100 telegraph offices providing automatic telex service to
approximately 2,300 subscribers.
2.04       Under the existing structure, customers have no choice in where they obtain
telecommunication services. Service is provided exclusively by TPTC. Historically, however,
TPTC has not had a customer service orientation, and customers must deal separately with the
engineering, finance, and billing departments at the local office and Dar-es-Salaam to resolve a
problem. Consequently customers are frequently frustrated in their efforts to obtain or retain
adequate service and often give up without receiving a satisfactory response.



- 10-
ExisWn Fadlities
2.05       As of December 31, 1991, TPTC operated 188 telephone exchanges consisting of 28
automatic exchanges and 160 mamal exchanges. The total installed exchange capacity reached
104,460 lines with 85,260 automatic lines and 19,200 manual lines (about 82% of the lines were
served from automatic exchanges). The capacity utilization for telephone exchanges equalled
85%. There is a backbone transmission microwave system crossing the country from east to west
and from north to south, with connections to neighboring countries of Malawi, Zambia, and
Kenya. The north-south systems form part of the PANAFTEL network. Direct terrestrial
connections to Uganda, Rwanda, and Burundi are operational. There is no domestic satellite
network since it has not been cost-justified to do so. The majority of the international services
are provided through a Standard B Earth station at Dar-es-Salaam which has been operating at full
capacity since 1983, and via a terrestrial link to a leased satellite circuit on a Standard A Earth
station (Atlantic Ocean Satellite) at Nairobi. A Standard A Earth station is in service close to
Dar-es-Salaam and provides additional capacity. A new international exchange was installed in
Dar-es-Salaam in 1991. Details of all existing facilities are given in Annex 2-1. The telex
service is fully automatic and is provided through four exchanges located in Dar-es-Salaam,
Arusha, and Dodoma. The total capacity of the exchanges is 4,350 lines, with 2,300 subscribers
connected which is a capacity fill of 53 %. Other services provided by TPTC include leased
circuits to a number of private and public institutions.
ualitv of Service
2.06       The quality of service is very poor. Approximnately 35% of the subscribers have
installed telephones which do not work. This is primarily due to line problems in the local
network. These problems can take weeks or months to resolve. In general, the network is
congested both at the local exchange and trunk levels throughout the day. In most exchanges, it
takes several minutes before a dial tone is received. The completion rate for inter-urban calls is
only 25 %, compared to an acceptable rate of about 60%. The main reason for the congestion in
the network is a result of a much higher demand for services than the network was designed to
handle. Faulty, obsolete equipment and deteriorated outside plant also contribute to the
congestion. In addition, lack of spare parts, transportation, and experienced manpower compound
the situation and lead to long repair times. On average, there are about 25 - 30 faults per 100
telephones per month, which is hign in comparison to world averages. Most of the faults are in
the local cable distribution network and repairs take an average of 10 days which is unacceptable
according to international standards. The operator assisted long distance telephone service is
severely impaired by the shortage of long distance circuits, which is compounded by heavy
congestion in the local networks. Service delays of over 4 hours on operator booked calls are
frequent, leading to cancellation of more than 50% of the booked calls. In addition, about 70%
of traffic is lost in the transmission network due to faulty or inadequate facilities. Outgoing
international calls (semi-automatic) have an effective rate of 68% compared to a target of 80% but
only 25% of the incoming international calls are successful. TPTC's management is fully aware
of the problems that have contributed to the poor quality of service.
2.07       Customers have difficulty in ensuring that their telephone lines continue to operate.
Of particular frustration is i) the frequency with which telephone lines are cut by technicians
repairing the network, and ii) difficulties in receiving and paying customer bills. Bills are often
sent out 1-2 months late, inaccuracies in the bills are frequent, and payments are often misposted.
Customers can thus be disconnected even though they have actually paid their bill. These



- 11-
problems have resulted in a collection rate of 65% of subscriber accounts versus a target of 85%
in TPTC's performance agreement with the Ministry. In 1991, TPTC's subscriber accounts
receivables reached 6.8 billion Tanzanian Shillings or approximately US$22 million.
2.08       In general, the prices for services historically have been quite low. The average
price of a one minute national call is 0.02 cents. The average cost per minute in Europe or the
United States is between 10 - 25 cents per minute. This low rate encourages subscribers to call
more, thus further congesting the network and reducing service quality. International charges,
however, are some of the highest in the world at approximately US$6.40 per minute. As part of
the restructuring process, tariffs are being realigned to be more economically sound.
Demand for Service
2.09       The total demand nationwide as of November 30, 1991 was about 153,000 potential
subscribers, which is about 200% of the supply of about 78,000 DELs at that period. According
to a demand assessment study funded under the PPF, the Total Demand Potential (TDP =
connected subscribers, applicants, and unexpressed demand) in Tanzania in 1990 was 302,000
(see Annex 2-2). The unexpressed demand portion of the TDP includes many would-be
applicants who have been discouraged from applying for telephone service because of: (i) the
long average waiting time for connection (exceeding five years) due to lack of facilities; and (ii)
the poor quality of service (para. 2.07). This is common in many countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa.
2.10       Demand forecasts indicate that the demand for telecommunication services is
projected to grow by at least 10% per annum through the year 2000 and beyond. Growth will be
fastest in urban areas. Tanga, Dodoma, and Mwanza are expected to grow at rates of 14.1%,
13.9%, and 13.8% respectively. Other areas of rapidly expanding demand include Arusha
(13.2%), Mbeya (11.7%), Morogoro (11.4%), Iringa (11.1), Moshi (10.8%), and Dar-es-Salaam
(10.1%). During the five year period covered by this project, the total demand is conservatively
expected to grow at about 10% per annum reaching about 490,000 at the end of 1996. However,
because of overall macro resource constraints and implementation capacity of TPTC, meeting
demand is not a realistic policy option for the foreseeable future.
C. SECTOR STRUCTURE AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
2.11       The MOC's mandate is to ensure that good quality, fairly priced telecommunications
and postal services are available to meet demand at economic prices in Tanzania. Within the
existing structure, MOC is responsible for setting policies. It has delegated responsibility to
TPTC for carrying out regulatory functions such as licensing of private operators, setting
equipment standards, and granting equipment type approvals. In addition, TPTC is responsible
for providing all telecommunication services within Tanzania. Under this current structure, the
role of the Ministry and the operating entity is blurred; the regulatory functions are quite limited
and lack a commercial orientation; there is insufficient accountability to ensure sound financial
performance; and there is virtually no possibility for private sector involvement.
2.12       The current sector structure and institutional environment is a result of the previous
centrally planned economy and is inappropriate for market-oriented operations. As noted earlier,
the Government recognizes the need establish a market-oriented regulatory framework to legalize
and encourage private sector involvement and competition.



- 12 -
2.13       The MOC has drafted a policy statement of its intentions to restructure the sector.
The statement indicates that the Ministry would be wholly responsible for policy matters. They
would be responsible for incorporating the Government's economic and social objectives into
telecommunication policy. The existing teleconmumications law will be revised by March 31,
1994 to allow for market oriented activities including private investment and competition. A
specialized agency independent of TPTC will be established which will be responsible for
regulating activities in the telecommunications sector under a market-oriented structure. An
autonomous operating entity(ies) would be responsible for providing telecommunication services
according to sound commercial principles. This entity(ies) would be regulated by the regulatory
body. Private sector participation will be legalized and encouraged in basic and non-basic
services. As part of a study on private sector participation, appropriate incentives to encourage
private investment will be defined.
2.14       The Government recognizes the need to clarify and separate the roles of the Ministry
and TPTC. In addition, the Government recognizes the need to comnercialize TPTC's
operations. In March 1992, a Ministerial Directive (MD) and Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) were signed between the Ministry and TPTC. In addition to clarifying the roles of the
Ministry and TPTC, these directives outlined elements for the commercialization of TPTC. The
main goal of commercialization is to improve the efficiency, quality, financial viability, and
customer responsiveness of TPTC's operations and ensure that TPTC becomes financially self-
reliant in its operations. The directives give TPTC autonomy in personnel policies, salaries,
procurement, and management of its financial affairs, etc., and in return, making it accountable
for its performance. (Annexes 2-3 and 2-4).
2.15       Specific financial, technical, operational, and service quality objectives are outlined
in the MOU and will be updated on an annual basis. Perfonnance targets agreed at negotiations
are outlined in Annex 2-4. TPTC's compliance with these objectives will be monitored through
efficiency audits done by independent consultants on an annual basis (para 3.38). These
efficiency audits will be monitored by GOT and will be reviewed during IDA supervision).
Outlined below are details on the current situation within TPTC.
D.   THE OPERATING ENTITY
2.16       TPTC is a monopolistic, government-owned insfitution responsible for planning,
management, and development of domestic and international public telecommunications and postal
services (see Annex 2-5 for an Organization Chart). Telecommunications services include local,
long-distance, and international telephone, data transfer, fax, telex, and telegraph services for
business, residential, and government subscribers. In addition to the public teleconummications
services, dedicated networks exist to meet the specialized requirements of the police, military,
railways, and civil aviation. Other private users also operate radio link services in areas
inadequately served by the public network. Tanzania has no telecommunications manufacturing
industry.
2.17       Though most telecommunication operating firms in the world are highly profitable,
since 1986, TPTC has had a negative net income and in 1989 was insolvent. The main causes for
this insolvency were:
r



- 13-
1) inadequate tariff policies and massive devaluations of the Tanzanian Shilling,
2) poor billing and collections performance,
3)   progressively deteriorated audit controls, and
Management and Operational
4)   inconsistencies in the lines of authority in the sector and weak management,
5)   weak management systems and computeztion,
6)   inadequate training, rising staff levels, and low worker compensation,
7)   a lack of a customer orientation.
Substantial progress has been achieved in 1990 -1991 in resolving these problems in preparation
of the Third Telecom project.
Tariff PoliCv
2.18       Historically, the tariff policy has been ad hoc and based primarily on political rather
than economic considerations. The need to account for inflation within the economy and hedge
liabilities against devaluation was not considered when deter_mng tariff levels. Tariffs for the
1985 - 1990 period increased an average 300% versus inflation of 1000% and devaluation of
1200%. Consequently, TPTC's net income declined from TSh 435 million in 1985 to ne,ative
TSh 10,295 million in 1989 in current terms. This led to a lack of foreign exchange for spare
prts and thus a deterioration of the operational performance of the telecommunications network.
2.19       Throughout the 1985 - 1991 period, local and long-distance tariffs have not
compensated for the economic cost of providing service. In 1991, domestic tariffs were well
below world averages while iternonal tariffs were some of the highest in the world. In 1991,
the average cost of an international call was US$6.41. A negative imbalance of inpayments and
outpayments to foreign administrations, however, resulted in an outflow of foreign exchange. In
addition, the high international tariffs led to increased efforts by subscribers to avoid being
charged for or paying for international calls. It is estimated that by 1991, over thirty percent of
international traffic went umbilled. TPTC, however, is sdll required to pay for calls made
through foreign adninistrntions. Thus TPTC's financial position is further worsened.
2.20       Given the importance of adequate tariffs in ensuring TPIC's financial viability, as
part of TPTC's restructurin in 1991, it was agreed that TPTC would raise individual tariffs
approximately 300-600% to cover the true economic cost of providing telecommunication service.
In March 1991 local and long-distance tariffs were raised to the agreed upon levels. International
tariffs were reduced approximately 25 %. In addition, in March, as part of the M!nisterial
Directive (MD) and Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed by the Government, the
Ministry, and TPTC, it was agreed that without furter authority, TPTC would raise tariffs on a



- 14 -
semi-annual (or quarterly) basis to account for inflation and devaluation. TPTC raised tariffs in
September, 1992 by 15%.
BMlhin= and Collection
2.21       TPTC's billing system is antiquated and wholly inadequate to meet its evolving
requirements. The current software was written in the 1970's. Work done under the second
project to improve the system was moderately successful. Subsequent to this, TPTC has installed
several exchanges with non-IDA funding, which for technical reasons, are not compatible with the
existing system. To exacerbate the problem, previous TPTC management insisted that work done
on the billing system be done by internal staff despite their acknowledged unfamiliarity with the
new technology. A laborious process was established to produce international bills. Further,
TPTC's transaction volume has outgrown the hardware capacity and rural bills in several areas
are produced on unsecured PC's. The end result is that the existing billing system is wholly
inadequate to support TPTC's billing and accounts receivable activities.
2.22       Under supervision from IDA under funds provided by SIDA, an interim solution to
the billing problem was recently developed. In addition, consultants have begun preparation of
the functional requirements for a new billing system and are evaluating pre-packaged billing
systems available internationally. As a condition of effectiveness, a billing system will be
selected. Successful implementation of the billing system by March 31, 1995 is a key
performance target in the mid-term review.
2.23       TPTC has begun to enforce their disconnection policy which requires subscribers to
clear their bills within 14 days of the billing date, otherwise service will be disconnected without
any notice. TPTC's Statement of Affairs was recently completed and accepted by TPTC and the
MOC who verified TPTC's financial position and analysed subscriber revenues. Under this
project, technical assistance is being provided to a) introduce improved financial controls and
processes, and b) reduce accounts receivables.
Audit. Audit Controls, and Financial Accounts
2.24       TPTC's accounts are currently audited by the Tanzanian Audit Corporation. The
auditors have been slow in actually producing the audited financial accounts. Under the MOU
and MD, the Government confinned that TPTC would hire independent, certified auditors to audit
the accounts. TPTC will utilize the services of private auditors if delays persist. TPTC has
indicated a willingness to do this should it be necessary.
2.25       As part of the restructuring process, new organizational units were established and
functions within departments were redistributed. New financial, management, and audit processes
and controls need, therefore, to be established which more closely reflect the current organization
structure. These controls will also need to be revised after the split of the postal and
telecommunication activities through advice from consultants.
2.26       TPTC prepares accounts both on a cash and commercial basis. External consultants
were employed under the second project to assist TPTC in the separation of the postal and
telecommunication accounts and to implement a new accounting system. With the assistance of
the consultants, the financial and accounting systems have improved and TPTC closed its annal
financial accounts within four months of the end of the 1991 fiscal year. Iitial indications in the



- 15 -
preparation of the 1992 accourts, however, indicate that TPTC may be encountering new
problems in this area. Technical assistance will be provided to guide and train staff in the
preparation of the accountL . Receipt by IDA of audited financial statements for TPTC for 1992
are a Condition of Effectiveness. Computer support will be provided in a project to complete the
automation of the accounting system. Starting with the 1992 accounts, postal and
telecomnmunication accounts will be presented separately.
2.27       The appointment, compensation, and retention of the Director General of TPTC has
not been under the control of the Ministry of Communications nor the Board of TPTC.
Consequently, in an attempt to ensure effective management of TPTC, the Ministry and TPTC's
Board became involved in the planning and day-to-day implementation activities of TPTC. For
example, financial expenditures, already approved in the annual budget, were subject to Board
review. In addition hiring, compensation, and firing of staff were also subject to Board approval.
This involvement resulted in substantial delays (as much as 6-12 months) in completing tasks and
significantly reduced the accountability, effectiveness, and motivation of management.
2.28       As part of the overall parastatal reform within Tanzania, the GOT and the Ministry
have delegated the responsibility of selecting the Director General of TPTC to TPTC's Board of
Directors, subject to Ministerial approval. This delegation of authority and the change in tariff
policy are clear moves on the part of the Government and the Ministry to commercialize TPTC
and provide TPTC with significantly increased autonomy and accountability. TPTC recently
introduced a memorandum delegating authority to line managers in the zones and regions as well
as headquarters. The Ministry and Board are currently in the last stages of recruiting a new
Director General with extensive international experience and a strong familiarity with the
telecommunications sector in Tanzania. The appointment of a highly qualified Director General
will be one of the primary contributing factors to the success of the project implementation.
ManEmnt System  and ComIuterization
2.29       TPTC lacks proper management systems and procedures essential to manage it as a
commercial enterprise. In addition, TPTC's management reporting is fragmented and no formal
and uniform structure for the flow of information exists. TPTC's performance is not closely
monitored, and formulation of corrective actions and utilization of information processing
capacities are inadequate. This has contributed to weaknesses in planming, operations and
maintenance, financial management, billing and collection, procurement, and project management.
TPTC will hire consultants to assist it in its efforts in these areas.
2.30       A comprehensive review of TPTC's current computer strategy is underway.
Consultants are assisting in this process and will propose a computerization strategy, priority
systems and an implementation plan. Acceptance of the consultant report by TPTC and IDA is a
condition of effectiveness. Consultants will also assist in implementation, including actually
purchasing pre-developed software, or if necessary, developing software. The purchase of a new
billing program and a financial management system will be the highest priority systems
purchased.



- 16 -
M  Training. and Competion
2.31       Inadequate training of key staff contributed to weak fiscal and operational
performance and the degradation of financial, techmical, and audit systems, processes, and
controls over time. TPTC has a training center in Dar-es-alaam which offers instruction and
training programs in most of TPTC's operational activities. These in-house trining facilities are
supplemented by established national training institutions and staff assignments with overseas
telecommunications administration, universities, and manufacturers. The annual training volume
is currently about 7,621 student weeks per year. However, this is still inadequate to meet
TPTC's needs. TPTC plans to expand training to deliver 9200 weeks by 1992. The types of
courses covered in the staff training college are contained in Annex 2-6.
2.32       TPTC has no regular program for managerial, administrative, financial, or computer
training. Training in these areas is done on an ad-hoc basis using external institutions such as the
multinational training institutions in Arusha and Nairobi. A detailed training plan and consultancy
services required to train trainers has been developed.
2.33       Telecommunications administrations in developed countries employ 5 to 8 staff per
1,000 DELs. As of December 31, 1991, TPTC employed a total staff of about 8,620. The staff
employed exclusively for telecommunications services was about 4,860 which is equivalent to a
staffing ratio of 69 per 1,000 DELs, which is high. The staffing ratio would be 76 staff per
1,000 DELs if the common support service staff are included. The number of staff per 1,000
DELs over the past three years has been growing rather than falling as is the case in most
developing countries where the Bank has been involved. Moreover the increase in staff has been
in administrative areas. In the key areas of engineering and finance, where there is a shortage of
trained staff, the growth has been very low or in some cases negative. In 1991, however, the
number of authorized staff within the organization was frozen and has been adhered to for
telecommunications staff. As part of the restructuring process areas requiring particular attention
were identified and the level of technical assistance reqwired was estimated. This study was
undertaken as part of a technical assistance program and the recommendations from the study will
be substantially implemnented within the first two years of an investment program. Completion of
this study will be an item in a mid-term review (para. 5.02). To improve staff efficiency, targets
have been set for reducing the staff ratio and will be closely monitored in the annual efficiency
audits.
2.34       As a result of limited working capital, staff salaries have not kept pace with
inflation. Wages and salaries as a proportion of operating costs were decreased from 19% to
13.3% from 1985 - 1989, despite an increase in the number of staff employed. As a result of
low wages, staff became increasingly demoralized and inefficient, thus further reducing
operational effectiveness and the quality of service provided. This also led to increasing number
of staff seeking alternative means - frequently to the detriment of TPTC - to augment their total
compensation. As agreed in the Ministerial Directive and Memorandum of Understanding, staff
salaries were almost doubled in early 1992. Further, in July 1992 TPTC introduced an employee
incentive plan that rewards staff based upon measurable performance indicators. To meet the staff
ratio targeted, TPTC will need to improve staff productivity by 12% annualiy. Early results from
the incentive scheme indicate strong efficiency gains.



- 17-
2.35       TPTC currently lacks a customer orientation. In order to provide a higher quality,
more individualized service to their customers and to maximize profits, TPTC needs to improve
the services offered in the customer service department. This department should provide the
single contact point in the operating entity to which customers direct their inquiries. The
departm  should ensure that customers have access to i) flexible blling serviks, ii) a customer
code so that customers know what services they can expect, the price of the service, and
mechanism  available to them to comphin for unsatisfactory service, iii) fill account information,
and iv) specialized services which they may reuire (particularly for high revenue generating
subscribers). The customer service department would draw upon the skills of the technical,
billing, and finance depattments as required to respond to subscriber inquires. In addition, the
customer service department would be responsible for analyzing subscriber demand patterns and
profiles to develop a coherent view of the customer base. In particular, they would identif high
revenme generating subscribers and establish specific customer accoi. managers to more
effectively service these customers and maximize the revenue they generate. Technical Assistance
will be provided to help improve the services offered in the customer service department and to
develop a subscriber profile.



- 18-
m. THE PROGRAM AND PROJECT
A. THE PROGRAM
3.01       TPTC and the MOC, with consultant assistance, identified a US$ 448 million
telecommunication recovery program to be implemented between 1993 and 1997. The program's
main objective was to meet the most urgent medium-term requirements of customers for
telecommunication services. The program was subsequtnly downsized to US$ 220.1 million to
take into account TPTC's managerial, financial, and technical absorptive capacity. TPC's
implementation capacity has been maximized through the effective use of consultant support.
The viability of this program is contingent on:
(a)  the new works procurement and implementation being maaged by external
consultants and detailed implementation being undertaken on a turney basis;
(b) appropriate tariff increases throughout the project;
(c) the availability of foreign financing; and
(d) restructuring of the existing Government debt to TPTC.
Stens Alreadv Taken
3.02       To ensure the program's success, the GOT has worked actively with TPTC to
improve its financial viability. The GOT converted US$34 million of TPTC's debt to equity to
improve their debt servicing capacity. During negotiations, it was agreed that the Government
will invest US$ 90 million of project funds into TPTC as equity to strengthen the balance sheet
and that, without IDA approval, TPTC shall not incur any debt, if after incurring such debt the
ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 60 to 40. In addition, TPTC has authority to raise
tariffs as required to cover inflation and devaluation and to retain 35% of its foreign exchange
revenue to fund foreign costs (spare parts, equipment, etc.) During negotiations it was agreed
that TPTC shall not undertake any investment with an estimated cost in excess of $2 million
without prior approval of .the Association.
3.03       The total program for the period 1993-1997 consists of. i) almost completed ongoing
works from IDA Credit 1810; and ii) the proposed project. The cost of the program is estimated
US$ 220.1 million including foreign cost of about US$ 189.7 million (Annex 3.1).
B.   TE PROJECT
Project Oblectives
3.04       To support the Government's development strategy in the sector (para. 1.05 and
1.06) and the overall economic recovery of the country, the project has the following physical and
institutional development objectives:



- 19-
(a) to establish a market oriented regulatory and policy framework; introduce private
sector participation in non-basic services in the near term; and permit and develop an
action plan to secure private investment in basic services and evaluate opportunities
for competition in non-basic services in the medium term;
(b)  to support strengthening of the institutional framework and facilitate
commercialization and corporatization of TPTC; to improve TPTC's financial
performance; and maxiniize TPTC's absorptive capacity through effective use of
consultants; and
(c)  to expand basic services, particularly to business subscribers, so as to satisfy the
most urgent demand and remove a constraint to the economic development of other
sectors; to rehabilitate the long-distance and national networks and existing, non-
operational lines; to improve the quality of service and system efficiency through,
inter alia better utilization of existing facilities, reducing faults and increasing call
completion rates; and over time, increase availability of a range of high quality,
value-added services to satisfy customer demand.
Proiet Descipidon
3.05       The Telecommunication m project design is described in detail in Annex 3-2. It
includes the following components:
Part A - Reuulatorv and Policy Framework
3.06       The Government and the MOC are committed to establishing a market-oriented
regulatory and policy framework. The Government's main policy aims are to ensure that:
a) basic and non-basic services are extended to as many subscribers as is economically viable; b)
service quality is improved; c) services are provided efficiently and cost effectively in part
through competition; and d) resources available to the sector are maximized through private sector
involvement. The Government has drafted a Telecommunication Policy Statement (see Annex 1-
1) which outlines their intention to:
(a) limit Government's role to primarily policy formulation and representation with
other Governments and international organizations;
(b)  establish a separate, independent regulatory body to regulate telecommunication
activities in Tanzania by March 31, 1994;
(c)   draft a new teleconmmnications law which permits private sector participation and
investment in basic and non-basic telecommunication services by March 31, 1994;
(d)  take all actions necessary to have a cellular operator license issued on the basis of
competitive bidding procedures by December 31, 1993 and by December 31, 1995
ensure that licenses to private sector operators or investors are issued for two other
non-basic services;
(e) require that TPTC commercialize and corporatize its operations, split postal and
telecommunication activities, and divest of non-core functions.



-20-
Submission of the policy statement to IDA is a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
3.07       The regulatory body would be responsible for establishing overall telecom tariffs,
defining and monitoring operator compliance with service standards, licensing selected
services4/, monitoring spectrum frequency allocation, granting licensos to operate
telecommunication services, authorizing interconnection and revenue sharing arrangements, and
promoting the development of competition and private sector involvement.
3.08       In the Investment Program, US$ 950,000 of technical assistance will be made
available to the Ministry of Communications and the Regulatory Body to a) conduct a review of
the current strategy for establishing a regulatory framework, b) define an implemenation plan
with clear milestones and assist in implementation to establish a regulatory body; and c) assist in
the training of regulatory staff and transfer of knowledge (US$ 200,000 of the total $950,000)
(see para. 1.12). In additon, the MOC will have external consultants perform an annual
efficiency audit of TPTC to ensure that performance targets are met (25 staff montis over five
years). The efficiency audit will review quantifiable financial, technical, and operational
performance targets (see Annex 2-4). The technical assistance provided to the MOC will be
coordinated with a Regional Telecommunications Policy Study.
3.09       Technical assistance wil be provided to a) identify options for private sector
involvement and competition, b) identify a plan to catalyze that involvement; and c) assist in its
implementation. The recommendations of the study on private sector involvement and an action
plan, taking into account the Association's comments, wiUl be provided to IDA by the Mid Term
Review.
:art B - Institutional DeveoMe  and ProLect Impleeaon
3.10       lnstitutional Development. To restructure TPTC effectively, build the institutional
capacity of TPTC in a susainable manner, and maxuimzing TPTC's absorptive capacity wiUl
require a comprehensive technical assistance package. Approximately US$ 14.02 million of
foreign technical assistance (of which $2.1 million is for a performance contract - (see para. 3.14,
3.30(b)) and US$ 2.8 million of training will be provided. The institutional development portion
of the program is intended to revise the institutional processes and procedures within the
organization following the recent implementation of the first phase of the reorganization of TPTC
along more commercial lines (see para. 1.13). TPTC management and staff will focus their
efforts and be accountable for their on-aoing core ctivities. The technical assistance and training
is intended to develop the staff capabilities within TPTC so that, over time, TPTC can become
self-reliant. Staff training and development wiUl be done in conjunction with substantial increases
in staff salaries (implemented in spring 1992), implementation of a performance based incentive
program (July 1992), delegation of authority to line managers (spring, 1992), and clearer
definition of roles and accountability of staff (first phase to be completed by 1994 and second
phase, after split of posts and telecommunications, by 1995).
3.11       A second phase of the restructuring will occur over the next two years with the split
of posts and telecommunication activities. Subsequent work will need to be done in the areas of
I/ nhe MOC, as an isue of policy, s likely to retain the audhority to isse licenses whkh will have a substhi-e impac on the sector.
Mh reguaor would be expectd to monitor compliance with the license.



- 21 -
management, finance, customer service, manpower, and operations to ensure the successful
implementation of the second phase of the restructuring process. The size of the technical
assistance package is, in part, due to the low emphasis of technical assistance in previous projects
(see Previous World Bank Involvement (para. 1.19).
3.12       The institutional development component of the project provides for 745 staff months
of consultants and experts to assist TPTC in the tasks specified below and staff months training
for trainers as well as 280 staff months of fellowships for overseas training of TPI;C's personnel.
The technical assistance under the project is as follows:
(a)  studies required to implement the institutional reforms. The main studies will be i) a
manpower study to develop a comprehensive human resource and training strategy
and an implementation plan, ii) a computerization strategy study and implementation,
and iii) organizational structure study for the telecommunications firm after the split
of posts and telecommunications (31 mm) (see paras 2.30, 2.33);
(b) corporate planning activities related to the split of posts and telecommunications
activities, establishment of profit centers in zones, development of management
reporting capabilities, investment and resource planning, contract administration, and
project accounting related to project implementation; (50 mm) (para. 2.32, 3.32);
(c) network planning related to overall planning, optimization, and coordination of the
national network, as well as traffic engineering, and materials standardization (90
mm) (para. 2.28, 2.33, 3.34);
(d)   operations and marketing related to subscriber services at headquarters and the
zones, operation and maintenance control centers, and maintenance procedures (108
mm) (para. 2.35);
(e) financial planning and controls related to design and implementation of financial
management systems and procedures, including: installation of new financial
systems and processes and introducing improved financial and audit controls; split of
post and telecommunication accounts; and improvement of budgeting, forecasting,
cost control. A full time financial controller will be retained to implement the
financial reform of TPTC. A total of 156 staff months is required over four years,
of which the financial controller would require 48 staff months (pans. 1.13, 2.24,
2.27, 2.29);
(f) provision of experts in manpower and training to develop a human resource plan, a
staff performance incentive scheme, a career development program based on the
existing staff profiles, and a hulman resource data base (72 staff months over four
years), (parm. 2.33);
(g) instruction of trainers in the staff college, development of new courses, and teaching
of initial courses in the following areas: management, end user computing,
mnarketing and customer service, (4 staff months over four years), (para. 2.33); and
(h) provision of training fellowships to TPIC staff primarily in local or regional training
institutions for courses not available through the staff college, (para. 2.33).



- 22 -
3.13       In support of the technical assistance component of the program, TfTC will:
a) identify and nominate counterpart personnel for each task and inform IDA prior to issuing the
letter of invitation to consultant for proposals; and b) TPTC and IDA will each year review the
impact of the technical assistance, including counterpart staff training, and agree on the
implementation objectives for the following year. Appointment of consultants for project
management, computer, and financial management consultants is a Condition of Credit
Effectiveness.
3.14       Proiect Imnlementation. To increase TPTC's implementation capacity (thus speeding
up the implementation process and eliminating technical bottlenecks more quickly), TPTC will
retain an external firm to be accountable for procurement and installation of new works under the
program (see para. 3.30). In addition, all equipment contracts will be implemented on a turnkey
basis. All contractors will be evaluated and compensated on performance based, output oriented
results. A US$ 2.1 million has been allocated for the performance contract.
Part C - Rehabilition and Exuansion
3.15       This component comprises the new works in the revised investment program for
1993-1997, including:
1.   rehabilitation of existing switching, transmission, power, and air conditioning
equipment including the provision of spare parts, modules, tools, and test equipment
to repair and refurbish them, (paras. 1.06, 2.06);
2.   supply, installation and commissioning of (see para. 1.06, 1.15, 2.03):
(a) 91,000 lines of switching equipment including 44,000 lines in the Dar-es-
Salaam and 47,000 lines in the Regional Centers. Cities with a high growth
in demand have been given priority. These include Tanga, Dodoma,
Mwanza, Arusha, Mbeya, Morogoro, Iringa, and Moshi;
(b)  complementary external line plant to match item (a) above and extnal line
plant for exchanges requiring additional cabling;
(c) digital microwave radio systems and fibre optical systems to interconnect the
exchanges included in item (a); and
(d)  power and air condidoning equipment for above mentioned switching and
transmission.
3.   provision of 20,000 telephone instruments and 500 pay phones for replacement of
unserviceable instruments and connecting new subscribers; 200 teleprints and 500
fax machines;
4.   provision of 50 motor vehicles for planning, construction, and maintenance works;
5.   construction of buildings to accommodate equipment and for office and residential
purposes;



- 23 -
6.   acquisition of ancillary equipment, computer hardware and software;
7.   acquisition of postal equipment and vehicles; and
8.   rehabilitation and expansion of the telecommunications network to be financed by
IDA, will be divided into two phases as follows:
(a) Phase I
-    Spare parts for existing switching, external line plant and transmission
-    Upgrading of Earth station with digital IDR fauility
-    External line plant in Pugu Road and Wageni (both in DSM) to provide
connection capacity for existing exchanges
-    Long distance transmission with digital microwave systems (spurs in Phase
II): DSM-Dodoma and DSM-Zanzibar-Pemba-Tanga-Moshi
-    Power and air conditioning equipment for above mentioned transmission
routes
-    Terminals: telephone sets, teleprinters, and fax machines.
(b) Phase I
*    Switching in Arusha, Morogoro, Zanzibar, Chake Chake, Wete and Mkoani,
and in 20 mral locations
-    External line plant in Arusha, Morogoro, Zanzibar, and in the above
mentioned 20 rurl locations
-    Long distance transmission with digital microwave systems: Moshi-Arusha
-    Small radio transmission related to above mentioned rural locations
-    Spur links related to the long distance transmission routes DSM-Dodoma and
DSM-Zanzibar-Pemba-Tanga-Moshi-Arusha
-    Power and A/C for above mentioned switching and transmission.
Probet C9
3.16       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 220.1 million with a foreign
exchange cost of about US$ 189.7 million (86% of the total cost). The costs of equipment and
consul    are based on TPTC's contracts for ongoing works and experience in other countries
with adjustments up to June 1992. Project cost estimates are outlined in Annex 3-1.



- 24 -
TANZANIA POSTS AMTQ1U.OMMLUNarICA1ONCOFMRAflO
TELECMMUNMC IONS RESFRICUFRU   WFLCC
Investme     t Pom (11- 1s5 in Mli us USOdi
* Eac  rate       300.00
T.S148. (AW wON                     L US# MILUO
i1s9-i196 1o91 - oo
Local      Foreign      Total       LOC       Foreign     Total
A.  TELEPHONEEXCHANGES
A.1  Local exchan                  550.00    t729937      7.880.         1.64       24.33      2.17
A.2  Transit Exchange               60.00       130.00      690.00       0.20        2.10       2.30
A.3  Spare Parts                     0.00       300.00      300.00       0.00        1.00       1.00
B.  LOCAL CABLE NETWOK
9.1 ELP                           1,778.40    16,005.60    17.764.00     5.93       53.        59.28
9.2 Spare Parts                      0.00       60000       600.00       0.00       2.00        2.00
C. TRANSM4ISS1O
C.1  Optcal Fibre                   162.00      460.0       612.00       0.S4        1.50       2.04
C.2 Radio Systems                 2,439.00    13,581.00    16,02.00      8.13       45.27      53.40
C.3 Upgrade S9d. A Earth             0.00       150.00      150.0        0.00        0.50        .50
C.4 Spae                             0.00       420.00      420.00       0.00        1.40       1.40
D. TLHONEE&                           . 0.00    684.00      68.0         0.00       2.26        228
E POWE&AC                           150.00    1,06.00      1,2000        0.50        30         4.00
F. BUILINQ                         900.00         0.00      900.00       3.00        0.00       3.00
Q VEHIaES                           30.00       45000       4Q00         0.10        1.50       1.60
H. COMPUTE1S                         0.00     1,716.00     1,716.00      0.00        5.72       5.72
LA CONSULTANCY-TOTPTC              798.00     4,206.00    5,004.00       2.66       14.02      1.68
LB CONSULTANCY- TOMOC                30.00      22.00       25.00        0.10        0.75       0.8S
J.A TPAINN-TO TPTC                  510.00      84000      1,3500        1.70        2.80       4.50
J.0 TPAIM  - TO MOC                   0.00       60a.O          00        0.00       0.20       020
K MISC. & ANCILWIARY EOUIUE        510.00       84000      1.00           1.70       2.80       4.50
:-    SE COT 7*18S30    49.506MO7    67,426?:    26.39 - 102                               111.42
Physcal Contingency             395.91     2,475.36    2,871.26       1.32       8.26       9.57
Prie Coningency                 791.83    4,9570       5.7425         2.64      16.50      1M14
1TAP~JCCS                   ,... 9,106.04......................... . 60,3.02    6,3.0  30*   ae?s; 1i7#  201



- 25 -
3.17       Physical contingencies are 5 % on local and foreign costs for equipment and services.
Price contingencies are based on amual domestic inflation rates for local costs at 17% in 1992,
14% in 1993, 12% in 1994, and 10% thereafter; and intemational inflation rates for foreign costs
at 4.4% for 1992- 1996 and 4.1% thereafter. It is assumed that the exchange rates will vary
during the period to adjust for the difference between local and foreign inflation. The average
unit cost for switching equipment is $265 ($285 including local costs) and $360 ($400 with local
costs) for external line plant. These estimates are based on actual contracts secured by TPTC and
world-wide trends. Cost estimates for transmission are based on the costs consultants received
from projects elsewhere since digital transmission equipment was not purchased in the previous
telecom project in Tanzania. The cost estimates of $2000 per direct exchange line is in line with
project cost estimates for other recently prepared projects in Africa and Asia (see Zimbabwe and
Nepal).
Pro3ect Financing
3.18       Donor contributions are detailed in Annex 3-3 and sunmarized in Table 3.1. IDA
has taken the lead in coordinating donor funding. Specific atention was given to limiting the
number of donors (10+ donors have fumded projects in the past several years). Donors are
funding whole segments of the project (including switching and transmission equipment and
external line plant [ELPI) on a geographical basis to a) ensure that compatible types of equipment
are purchased in a particular region, b) that equipment is not purchased that cannot be used
(switches that have no outside plant), and c) the level of training and maintenance required of
TPTC staff is minimized. Donors were also encouraged to allow competitive bidding for
equipment and technical assistance. Consequently, a large portion of the project wiUl be procured
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Finally, in cases where aid is tied, donors were
strongly encouraged to consider international pricing when costing their projects.
3.19       The IDA credit of US$ 74.45 million (US$ 73.5 million of which will be provided
to TPTC) will meet about 40% of the foreign cost requirement. TPTC will be required to finance
all the local cost requirements amounting to about US$ 30.4 miflion.
Table 3. Protect Fnancng
Local  Porein Total
SonScoUS$ Million Equivalent-
IDA                  74.4    74.4
Cofinanciers        115.4   115.4
TPTC          30 4           30.4
TOTAL         30.4  1.       22Q.1
3.20         The IDA credit of US$ 74.45 million equivalent would be made to the GOT.
US$ 20 million would invested by GOT into TPTC as equity. US$ 53.5 million would be on-lent
to TPTC at 8% interest rate for 20 years including a five year grace period. Approximately US$
70 million of additional equity will be provided by co-financiers (see para. 4.06(i)). During
negotiations it was agreed that the Government will invest a total of US$ 90 million into TPIC to
achieve a debt equity ratio of 60:40 by the first year of the project and that the Government will



- 26 -
take all steps necessary to maintain this ratio thereafter. Funds from co-financing sources not
going in as equity are assumed to be on-lent by the Government to TPTC at 8% per annum for
five years including five years grace on principal repayment. TPTC will bear the foreign
exchange risk on the IDA credit and other funds that are invested into TPTC as debt.
3.21         TPTC has been meeting the local costs of their ongoing telecommunications
development program. TPTC will be required to meet its local cost requirement for the
investment program which is estimated at about 8.7 billion Tanzania Shilling through internal cash
generation.
C.    PROCUREMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Procarent
3.22         Procurement arrangements for the proposed project are summrized in Table 3.2.
Contracts for about US$ 135 million for goods and services would be awarded according to ICB
using IDA's or ADB's procurement guidelines. Goods and services for US$ 17 million to be
financed by EEC will be procured according to limited international bidding from EEC member
countries. Contracts for goods and services to be financed by DANIDA and JICA (about US$ 10
million) will comply with the guidelines of the individual donor country. Buildings (US$ 3.5
million) financed by TPTC will be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in
accordance with the government public procurement procedures. Selection of consultants
financed by IDA and SIDA will be in accordance with their respective guidelines.
3.23         Goods (equipment, installation, specialized training by suppliers) worth about US$
62 million to be financed by IDA will be procured through ICB in accordance with IDA's
procurement guidelines. It was agreed at negotiations that the Bank's standard bidding documents
will be used under the Project. IDA financed investment component wiUl be divided in 10-15 bid
packages based on equipment category: switching, transmission, external line plant, terminals
(telephones, fax machines and teleprinters), power and air conditioning equipment (see Annex 3-2
for details on the program). Proprietary items totalling US$ 6 million covering spares,
rehabilitation and upgrading of existing equipment (spare parts for switching and transmission and
upgrading of a Standard A Earth station) will be financed by IDA and procured by direct
negotiations with the original suppliers. Negotiated prices for these items will be based on the
ICB prices from bids received under the earlier IDA financed telecommunications projects taking
into account a reasonable adjustment. Small quantities of postal equipment totalling US$ 2
million will be financed by IDA and procured by direct negotiations. Selection of IDA financed
consultants (about US$ 4.1 million equivalent) will be in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Conas for consultants employed under PPF advance (US$ 0.8 million), or 6 % of total
consultancy contracts under the project, have already been or are being executed in accordance
with IDA guidelines. TPTC is the principal implementing agency responsible for carrying out the
project, including all procurement. This is the third similar project in the sector, and the staff of
TPTC have acquired experience from earlier projects. Consultants are and will continue to assist
TPTC in the preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of tenders, contract negotiations, and
supervision of the project implementation.
3.24         All IDA financed conracts for goods for more than US$ 250,000 equivalent each
will be subject to IDA's prior review as well as contracts for consultants for more than
US$ 100,000 each. This is expected to involve about 85% of the total value of IDA financed
contracts. The smaller IDA financed contracts will be subject to post-award review in accordance
with Appendix 1 of IDA proment guidelines.



- 27 -
Table 3.2 PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ tmilion)
Negotiated
Prolect Item          ICB      Purchase    NBF      Other       Total
Switching            26.0        1.2       4.4        2.3       33.9
(5.5)     (1.2)                            (6.7)
Ext.Line Plant       45.3        -        18.3        6.9       70.5
(13.2)                                     (13.2)
Transmission         49.2        2.2       4.6       10.0       66.0
(32.5)     (2.2)                           (34.7)
Terminals             1.7        0.6       0.3        -          2.6
(1.7)     (0.6)                            (2.3)
Power & A/C           4.0        -         -          0.6        4.6
(4.0)                                      (4.0)
Buildings             -          -         3.5        -          3.5
vehicles              1.7        -        -           0.1        1.7
(1.2)                                      (1.2)
Computers             6.6        -         -           -         6.6
(3.8)                                      (3.8)
Consultancy-TPTC      -          -         -        18.45       18.45
(2.45)      (2.45)
Consultancy-MOC       -          -         -           .75        .75
(.75)     (.75)
Training - TPTC       -          -         -          5.2        5.2
(1.0)     (1.0)
Training - MOC        -          -         -           .2         .2
(.2)      (.2)
Postal - Equipment   -           2.0       -          1.5        3.5
(2.0)                           (2.0)
Postal-Construction -            -         -          1.7        1.7
(1.2)     (1.2)
PPF                   -          -         -           .88        .88
(.88)     (.88)
TOTAL               134.5        6.0      31.1       48.6      220.1
(61.9)     (6.0)                 (6.5)    (74.4)
NOTE:
Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NBF = Not Bank Financed
Negotiated Purchase - e.g. purchase of spare parts from original suppliers
Other = e.g. TPTC's local cost, selection of consultants.



- 28 -
Pb1mnt
3.25       The IDA credit of US$ 74.45 million would be disbursed against 100% of foreign
expenditures for equipment, vehicles, training and consultancy services, as shown in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: Disbursement of Proposed Credit
Amount              % Financed by
Category                      (US$ Million)                 IDA
1. Equipment under:                                               100% foreign
expenditure
(a) Phase I of                28,000,000.
Part C.8 of
the Project
(b) Phase II of               25,000,000.
Part C.8 of
the Project
2. Vehicles, computers                                            100% foreign
and office equip-                                              expenditure
ment:
(a) Computer &                 3,300,000.
office equipment
(b) Vehicles                   1,000,000.
3. Training                                                       100% foreign
expenditure
(a) For Part A                   200,000.
of the Project
(b) For Part B                   900,000.
of the Project
4. Consultant's                                                   100% foreign
Services                                                       expenditure
(a) For Part A                   750,000.
of the Project
(b) For Part B                 1,920,000.
of the Project
5.(a) Postal equipment           1,800,000.                       100% foreign
and vehicles for                                            expenditures
Part C.7 of
the Project
(b) Consultant's               1,000,000.                       100t foreign
services and training                                       expenditures
for Part B.7 of the
Project
6. Refunding of                    880,000.                       100* foreign
Project Preparation                                            expenditure
Advance
6. Unallocated (Contingency)     9,700.000.
Total  74.450,000.



- 29 -
3.26         The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 34 and includes
disbursement in FY93 for the PPF. The disbursement profile is based on IDA's standard
disbursement profile for Telecom projects worldwide. Steps are being taken, however, to speed up
the disbursement process. TPrC will establish a petfc-mance contract with consultants to be
responsible for project implementation and all equipmevt contracts will be executed on a turnkey basis
to accelerate project implementation. It is expected 'Sia- aiplementation and disbursements would be
completed by December 30, 1997. A special foreign rurrency account of US$ 4 million equivalent
will be established by TPTC in a commercial bank on termis and conditions acceptable to IDA. This
amount represents four mondts of estimated payments to contractors and consultants directly by TPTC
during the peak implementation period of 1994 - 1996 from the IDA credit. The special account
would be used for disbursements against all eligible expenditures and it would be replenished by IDA
on application by TPTC. For large contracts, TPTC will apply for direct payments to the suppliers
or for letters of credit. All disbursement applications would be fully documented with the exception
of applications relating to expenditures under contract valued less than US$ 250,000 equivalent,
which would be disbursed on the basis of a Statement of Expenditures (SOE).
3.27         TPTC will maintain separate accounts in accordance with accepted accounting
principles to maintain records of all expenditures specific to the IDA project, comnmitments,
reimbursements and the status of project funds. Staff in the project monitoring/donor coordination
unit in the corporate planning department will be responsible for managing the accounts and for
supplying reports to IDA. With respect to the amount withdrawn on the basis of Statements of
Expenses, TPIC will prepare and maitain records such as contracts, invoices, and evidence of
payments readily available for inspection. During Negotiations it was agreed that Special Accounts,
Project Accounts and SOE's will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the
reports will be submitted to IDA with audited finaneial accounts for each fiscal year.
3.28         Disbursement for the equipment portions of the IDA component of the project will be
done in two phases. Disbursement under Phase I of the Project (approximately US$ 28 million +
15% contingency - see Category (1)(a) in Table 3-3) will be carried out after TPTC has employed a
consulting firm with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA to be responsible for the
supervision of the procurement and implementation of capital construction activities under the Project.
Payments under Phase II of the project (approximately US$ 25 million + 15% contingency - see
Category (1)(b) in Table 3-3) can be made subject to nodfication from IDA once TPTC has gained
sufficient impementation capacity to successfully implement the second phase. The specific items to
be included in each phase were agreed at negodations and are outlined in Annex 3-5.
TPTC Mnagement and Project Implementation
3.29         Implementation of the project will be a complex undertaking. Approximately six or
seven donors are expected to contribute to the program and the execution of the program will involve
a nber of different suppliers. The investments will be spread over the entire country and will
involve all of the fimctional areas witiin TPIC.
3.30         A key goal of the program is to build the institutional capacity of TPTC staff to
manage and operate their core business activities effecdvely over time, and to maximize the



- 30 -
implementation capacity within the organization. Consequently, during negotiation, it was agreed
that:
(a)    TPTC would focus their efforts and would be accountable for managing TPTC's o-
going core business, i.e. operation of the teleconmnunications network;
(b)    TPTC will contract out with a private firm (independent of suppliers) who will be to
be responsible for supervision of procurement and installation of the new works under
the investment program. This firn will be responsible for new works procurement
and will oversee the implementation of the turn-key contracts. All firms will be
evaluated on output oriented quantiflable performanc taryets. Where appropriate
TPTC will "farm out" or release staff to work for contractors. The firm overseeing
the project implementation will be accountable to the Deputy Director General,
Telecommunication;
(c)    TPTC will establish a "financial review" contract with a private firm to (i) establish
new finance and accounting, audit, and logistics systems procedures and controls, and
(') install new information systems (including billing and collections, accounting and
financial management, and payroll);
(d)    When seeking private sector participation TPTC will attempt to commit the investor(s)
to providing relevant "know how";
(e)    TPITC will divest of non-core activities. Functions to be divested include printing,
motor vehicle repair, building construction and maintenance, sale and installation of
customer premise equipment, and equipment repair;
(f)    TPTC will contract out some services which are non core but on-going in nature.
The specific services to be contracted out will be determined as part of the
institutional restructuring plan. These services will include maintenance of hardware
and software of the information systems (inter alia billing, accounting, and payroll)
and customer collections/accounts receivable as separate contracts.
3.31         The letters of invitation for the supervision consultants and financial Review
consultants under (b) and (c) above will be floated as soon as possible and the tender documents will
be evaluated and contracts negotiated by Credit Effectiveness.
3.32         A Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) in the Corporate Planning Department will be
responsible for the overall coordination of the project. Draft Terms of Reference for technical
assistance are available in the project files. The key responsibilities of the team will be to a)
consolidate reports from the Deputy Director General Telecom and the Department Directors on the
progress of the project; b) coordinate technical assistance across functional areas; c) oversee and
participate in contract administration; d) maintain the financial accounts for the project; e) ensure that
documentation required by the donor community is prepared in an accurate and timely manner; and f)
monitor the transfer of know-how in the technical assistance. The size of the team in the Corporate
Planning Departnent will need to be expanded. Two consultants will be retained to work with
counterpart staff within the PMUJ. These consultants will assist the Director in reviewing all
procurement documents prepared by the consulting firm responsible for supervision of project
implementation and ensure compliance with donor requirements.



- 31 -
3.33         The physical and institutional comnponents of the project will be managed by the
Deputy Director General Telecommunications (Project Director). The firm responsible for
supervision of project implementation will be accountable to him or his designate. Where appropriate
and rnutually agreeable, TPTC staff will be employed by the contractors for the actual project
impletmentation. See Annex 3-5 for a summary description of the project implementation plans. A
detailed implementation plan is contained in the project f;les.
3.34         The Deputy Director General Telecommunications and his senior staff managing
a) network design and project engineering; b) building design and supervision; c) major works
construction; d) customer services; and e) planning and resource scheduling as w0.! as the heads of
finance, audit, human resources, and computers will be responsible for the management of on-going
activities. In addition, the appropriate departments will be responsible for acceptance testing and
confirming commissioning of equipment installed by contractors.
3.35         The Deputy Director General Telecommunications will have monthly reports prepared
on the progress of the project implementation for both technical assistance and capital investment
construction and will convene regular monthly meetings to discuss these reports. The Project
Director (DDGT), assisted by the Project Management Teamn Leader (Director Corporate Planning)
will prepare and issue consolidated quarterly progress reports for the Director General. The quarterly
reports, including executive summaries, will be submitted to IDA and other donors.
3.36         A project review group will also be established that will be composed of the heads of
the finctional departments involved in the implementation of either the technical assistance or capital
construction and will be chaired by the Director General. The group will meet regularly to resolve
outstanding issues.
3.37         The efficient implementation of the management consultancy services is critical to the
success of the project. To ensure timely appointment of these consultants, the selection of the project
management and financial consultants will be a Condition of Credit Effectiveness.
Performance Idicators
3.38         TPTC will prepare annually for IDA's review a comparative analysis of its actual
performance against the target indicators as agreed to by GOT and TPTC in the MOU signed in
March 1992 and the additional targets agreed to between TPTC and IDA at Negotiations (see Annex
24). These indicators relate to technical, operational, and financial performance, subscriber
connections, service quality, and staffing. While targets for later years are indicative, those for 1993
have been agreed upon as representing desirable and feasible levels of attainment. The target for
subsequent years will be agreed jointly between TPTC and IDA by October 31 of the preceding year,
together with any corrective actions necessary. In addition, all firms responsible for capital
construction, including the consulting firm selected to supervise the overall implementation and those
implementing turnkey projects, will be evaluated on out_ut oriented, quantifiable performance targets.
An Efficiency Audit carried out by independent consultants will evaluate TPTC's performance and is
intended to assist TPTC in improving its management and allow timely corrective actions to be taken
when necessary. TPTC will report progress against technical and operational indicators in the
quarterly progress reports to be submitted to IDA within six weeks of the end of each quarter, and
against financial indicators in annual financial statements. A Mid Term Review of the project will be
conducted in the 4th quarter of 1995. The review wi1l be based primarily on the results of the
Efficiency Audits.



- 32 -
Re2on  Cood, aton
3.39         From a regulatory and policy perspective, the current project is being carefully
integrated with a World Bank sponsored African Telecommunications Policy Study. Lessons learned
from other countries will be incorporated into the implementation of a regulatory framework and vice
versa. From a technical standpoint, under the IDA II project, regional and international
telecommunication linis had been inproved and expanded to satisfy existing demand. The current
project builds the domestic capacity to access regional and international destinations.
D.  ENVIRNMENTAL AND HEALTH EECTS
3.40         The proposed project is expected to have no major adverse environmental and health
effects. On the contrary, more efficient use of telecommunications will substitute for personal
transporation and correspondingly reduce environmental pollution and promote energy conservation.
In addition, improved telecommunication services would facilitate dispersion of health services and
emergency care.
3.41         Outlined below are specific issues which may arise.
Air Pollution - In some project buildings, air conditioning is necessary. Some CFC gases
could be leaked to fte atmosphere
Land Loss - It will be necessary to construct microwave towers in the rural areas and thirty
new buildings will be constructed.
Wildlife - Tanzania has rich and abundant wildlife populations in numerous national parks and
wildlife reserves. The towers could increase the number of bird deaths from collisions with the new
towers.
Sail Eros  - Towers will be constructed on hills and the construction of access on the steep
slopes could create soil erosion hazards.
Landscape Values - The microwave towers on high hills are not aesthetically appealing.
Specific mn-asures to mitigate and manage these issues are outlined in an environmental mitigation
plan (see Annex 3-6).



- 33 -
IV. EINANCIA AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.  Fundal
ast Fiaca Peronnanee
4.01         During the peniod between FY8S-89 the financial performance of TPTC has been poor
both in terms of cash flows and profitability. TPTC's deterioration in performance is highlighted by
the change in earnings during this period. From a net profit of Tsh 435 million in 1985, profitability
declined to a net loss of Tsh 10,295 million in 1989. Outlined below is a summary of TPTC's
income for the period. See Annex 4-2 for historic financial statmens.
Income Statements
(TShs Million)
1985      1986     1987    1988       1989
Telephone                         1,148     1,343     2,420    3,536    4,909
Telex                               170      276       560    1,019     1,934
Telegraph                           27        87        53       77        78
Other Revenue                        8       301       101      224       227
Teleca Opuat   Revenue            1,353     2,007     3,134    4,855    7,148
Telecoms Operatg Expenses          631      1,624     2,453    3,701    5,173
Net Telecoms Opera_ng Income       722       383       681    1,155     1,975
Net Postal Operating Income (Loss)  26       (34)        7       10       (37)
Less: Interest on Loans              14       56       309      255     3,615
Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss)       (48)   (2,328)   (3,705)  (2,650)   (5,269)
Net Profit (Loss)                  435   (2,146)   (4,666)  (6,272)  (10,295)
The main reasons for TPTC's poor performance were:
First, the continual devaluation of the Tanzanian Shilling resulting in massive foreign
exchange losses. Given tht large (almost 80%) foreign currency component of their capital
expendime this has been the most bidg ecternal constaint to TPTC's financial
deterioration. in TPTC, foreign exchange losses as a result of currency devaluation
increased from TSh 48 million in 1985 to a staggering TSh 5,269 million in 1989. Due to
TPTC's high foreign currency debt burden, which is revalued annually to adjust for currency
devaluation, debt servicing costs in local currency terms increased substantially.
Scn_d, the lack of appropriate tariff adjustment measures to overcome the high rate
of inflation and the devaluation of the Tanzanian Shilling reslting in declining profitability.
Whereas inflation over the 6 year period 1985-90 was around 1000% and the Tanzania
Shilling devalued from an exchange rate of Tsh 16.50 = US$1 in 1985 to TSh 196.6 = US$1



- 34 -
in 1990, tariff increases resulted in an increase of only 300% during the same period.
Similarly, as a result of the high inflationary trends, operation and maintenance expenses
increased from 14% of gross operating revenues (GOR) in 1985 to around 40% in 1989.
Third, high bills receivables as a result of the poor collection performance have been
a major bottleneck to the liquidity position of the organization. in 1987, bills receivables
amounted to the equivalent of 569 days of revenues, resulting in a negative intenmal cash
generation situation of TSh 3,064 nmillion. The shortage of liquidity and short term financing
led to negative working capital during the period 1988-90, which has in turn impeded
maintenance and routine operations. The shortfall in working capital is reflected by the
declining current ratio from 2.3 in 1985 to 0.6 in 1989. In addition, there is a high level of
non-billing. It appears that at least 30% of the traffic goes unbilled. As one of the objectives
of this project, technical assistance will be provided to institute stringent controls on the
billing and collections process. In addition, a new billing system will be instal[ed to resolve
this issue.
4.02         In addition to currency devaluatioai, a negative balance in foreign exchange flows
between TPTC and Foreign Administrations, coupled with increasing costs (in local terms) of
imported spare parts further exacerbated the foreign exchange losses. In 1991, with changes in
operating procedures and tariff structures, a positive balance in foreign exchange flows was achieved.
Through technical assistance additional measures will be taken to improve this.
4.03         It is worth noting that though operating expenses increased, expenses on salaries and
wages actually declined from 19% of gross operating revenue in 1985 to 13.3% in 1989.
Interestingly the size of the work force has increased during this period. The failure to increase staff
compensation in the face of hyperinflation led to a demoralized work-force and therefore substantial
inefficiencies crept into the organization which further affected the organization's performance.
Revenues were also affected by low capacity utilization, low call completion rates, and a high fault
rate resulting from poor maintenance of facilities, lack of availability of spares, and inefficient
inventory controls.
4.04         The fmancial situation of TPTC reached its lowest ebb in 1989, when it was
technically bankupt. The Organization had a net negative equity of TSh 19,456 million comprised
primarily of accumulated losses amounting to TSh 22,734 million.
B.    Financial Projections and Restrcturin  Strategy
Fiaca Gol
4.05         The paramount financial aim of this project is to create a sound financial base for the
sector, especially for TPITC. The GOT has, on the advice of IDA, embarked on a restructuring effort
for the sector. The goal of the strategy for the sector is primarily for TPTC to achieve financial self
sufficiency on a sustainable basis.
K   Steps Necessary for Imurovement of Flnancial Performance
4.06         Implementation of the financial and restructuring strategy will involve concerted
actions in the following key areas:



- 35 -
(a)    Capital Restructrin: As a first step of the restructuring process, the Government in
1990 absorbed a major portion of TPTC's foreign currency debts. By doing so, it has
assumed both debt servicing and foreign exchange liabilities from TPTC. However,
TPTC still retains about US$55-60 million equivalent of long Term debts which will
require US$10-12 million of servicing (including repayment) annually. In addition, it
has to bear losses due to currency devaluation which is expected to continue, at a
decreasing rate. For this reason, the GOT has agreed to invest a portion of the IDA
loan in TPTC as Equity. The injection of funds in TPTC in the form of Equity will
have two major implications on the entity. First, it will provide TTPTC with the
much needed funding to overcome its current financial situation of near bankruptcy.
In addition, TPTC will not have to pay debt service charges or bear foreign exchanges
losses due to currency devaluation, which here to fore have been the two most binding
constraints to TPTC's profitability. Second, investment in the form of equity will
create a satisfactory capital base for the organization. A sizeable capital base is an
essential step towards privatization, as it will provide for an effective dispersion and
exchange of shares. It was agreed in negotiations that the equity investment would be
such that the Debt to Equity ratio is maintained at least a 60:40 level. 5/ To
nmaitain this 60:40 Debt to Equity ratio, the likely distribution of loan and equity
investments is:
Loans                            Equrui
US$ million   Tsh million        US$ million   Tsh million
1993        -                   -            11.46             4,583
1994       23.11            10,168           53.92            23,727
1995       49.32            23,873           26.56            12,854
1996       22.36            11,907            2.49             1,323
Total       94.79           45,948           94.43            42,487
The consequential Debt to Equity Ratios would be:
1994         1995         1996          1997
D/E ratio       61:39        60:40        61:39         59:41
The precise figures for injections of equity by GOT into TPTC will need to be determined
annually based on the actual project disbursements. Funds provided by EEC (approximately
US$ 30 million) and SIDA (approximately US$ 40 million) will be invested as equity. It was
The original Disbursement schedule was as folows:
Loans             US$ million                TSh millions
1993              11.46                    4,583
1994              77.03                   33,895
1995              75.88                   36,727
1996              24.85                   13,230
Total            189.70                   88,435



-36 -
therefore agreed at negotiations that US$ 20 million of IDA funds would be passed to TPIC
as equity.
(b)    Tarff increases: In order to achieve the expected growth and expansion on a
sustinable basis it is imperative that tariffs are adjusted in accordance with the nwcro-
economic changes. It was agreed in negodations that tariffs will be adjusted
according to inflation/devaluation on a semi-annal basis.
(c)    Reduction in Operational costs: It is expected that there will be a substantial but
gradual decline in operational costs relative to increase in revenues. At the current
time TPTC is overstaffed and inefficient. The target for increasing efficiency is to cut
operating costs gradually from 65% (of total revemnes) to 45% in 1995 to around 40%
in 1999. The IDA m project will provide for sufficient manpower and managerial
trainig to increase labor efficiency thereby reducing the staffing ratio considerably.
In accordance with the performance targets agreed to in the MOU and MD, the ratio
between staff to DELs will decline given the planned expansion under the project.
(d)    Fixed Assets Revaluation and Statement of Affairs: TPTC has had prepared by an
external accounting firm, a Statement of Affairs for the entity for the year ended 1991
which is currently being reviewed. In addition, a fixed assets revaluation exercise
was completed in July 1992. The purpose of this exercise was to ascertain the
financial position of the company with a reasonably high level of accuracy, given that
the audit report for the past two years have had qualified remarks from the external
auditors of the company. A key goal of the Statement of Affairs was to accurately
determine the level of debtors of the company.
(e)    Financial Performance: As agreed at negotiations, TPrC will maintain at a minimum
a rate of return on revalued net fixed assets of 15% and a liquidity ratio of not less
than one. Tariff and traffic engieing policies will be adjusted to ensure an
inpayment/outpayment ratio of not less than one each year. TPTC will generate
sufficient cash to fund all local costs for capital investments. A new comprehensive
billing and accounts receivable system will be installed within 18 months of project
effectiveness. Accounts receivable (days in billing) will be reduced from more than
120 days in the first year of the project to 45 by the fifth year. Financial controls will
be introduced and collection staff appropriately trained to ensure that a collection rate
of 80% is achieved by 1994, 90% by 1995 and maintained thereafter.
C. F     Proji
4.07          The financial implications of the project are included as Annex 4-2 (assumptions are
also included)f/. The impact of the restructuring exercise is evident from the second year of the
project. As a result of the collections effort and improvement in the billing systems it is expected that
there will be a considerable recovery in the liquidity of the organization. The strong cash flow
situation is characterized by the internal cash generation ratio of 35% in the second year which
/ At negoas. the MOC confie that $34 of TPrC's debt would be cowerted to equity and that $20 million of the new
nvesonenz would be invesed as equy; thus s_tngn TPCs balance sheet nd reducing tbeir debt service requirements.
Financial projecuons incorpomrng thee changes are hIcluded in Annex 4-3. With the infusion of equity. the FRR on the project is
28.2% and the ERR 54.1%.



- 37-
continues to rise for the period of the project. The debt service coverage ratio is more than 2 during
the same period.
4.08         Because there is a gradual increase in the expansion program and because the program
envisions an improvement in all the elements of the sector, the projections do not reflect any
unusually large increases in profitability from one year to the next. On the other hand, the overall
implications are considerable. Return on Revalued fixed assets increase from 15% in 1992 to over
60% after 1997. The interest coverage ratio increases from 1.3 in 1992 to 7.9 in 1997. The cash
position of the organization improves considerably and, according to the projections, future expansion
using internal cash generation seems realistic.
4.09         Actions to improve foreign exchange earnings will need to be introduced to ensure
that there is sufficient foreign exchange to meet TPTC's requirements. Recent measures adopted by
the Government towards a liberalized market is expected to provide an adequate availability of foreign
currency. In the event that this proves insufficient, it is being recommended that collections for
international calls will be made in foreign exchange from establishments having access to foreign
exchange (e.g. embassies, large hotels etc.). This strategy has been successfully adopted in some
other countries such as Zambia.
D.    Financial and Economic Rates of Returns
4.10         The base case Financial Rate of Return (FRR) to the project is 27%. This FRR is
based on TPTC's cash flow generation assuming the project's efficiency objectives and the projected
traffic are realized. A rate of return of 27% is high but considered realistic. The calculation of the
FRR is based on the projected incremental cash flow of TPTC. The reason why an incremental cash
flow has been considered is that TPTC is an ongoing corporation and therefore it already has a
cashflow and will continue to do so even without the proposed project. The underlying assumption of
the incremental method is that, as a result of this project, there will be a positive effect on the
efficiency of existing works (due to improved manpower skills, maintenance, improved morale, etc.)
which will improve the entity's performance to at least break-even level. The financial rate of return
has been calculated for the cashflow generated as a result of the incremental infusion of new capital.
4.11         The base case economic rate of return (ERR) is 52%, which is considered quite good.
Differences in the base case FRR and the ERR reflect the relative distribution of the economic
benefits of the project between TPTC its customers and Tannnia's economy. The ERR is a clear
indication that the project is expected to have a high positive effect on the economy of the country
especially to the National exchequer as a result of the increase in direct and indirect taxes from
TPTC. Additional benefits to the economy which are inevitable as a result of improvement of
telecommunications has not been accounted for in this calculation.



- 38 -
Sensitivity Analysis
4.12         The following is a table of the sensitivity of the proposed Project:
FRR
(a)   Increase in Project Cost
(i)    10%                                22%           43%
(ii)   20%                                 16%          36%
(b)    Traffic Growth
(i)    Down 10%                           25%           48%
(ii)    Down 20%                          22%           43%
(c)    Non Collections
(i)    20%                                 5%           25%
(ii)   25%                                  1%          18%
4.13         The sensitivity analysis above has considered the three variables namely, traffic,
project cost and collections which are critical to the success of the project. Variation of up to 20% in
these key variables still provides an adequate rate of return, thus indicating the robustness of the
project and affirming its financial and economic viability.
4.14         The break-even goint of the pnroiected nerformance is when traffic is 20% less than
the base case and non-collection amounts to 20%.
4.15         The project will reduce a major infrastructural constraint to economic development
and adjustment in Tanzania by upgrading and expanding telecommunication services. It will
maximize resources available to the sector by enabling private sector investment and will improve
quality and access to services by promoting competition. hnproved telecommunication services will
provide major benefits across all sectors by improving the flow of information and enhancing
communication. It will lay a new technological base for the industrial sector as a precondition for
successful long-term development of the economy. Furthermore, institution building and
commercialization of TPTC will result in full cost recovery, improved financial viability, more
efficient operations, and improved quality of service to subscribers.
4.16         Specifically, the project will foster the development of a market-oriented economy by:
(a)    establishing a regulatory and policy framework that ensures private sector
participation in telecommunications;
(b)   selling non-core business functions; and
(c)    allowing for private sector involvement in basic and non basic services, such as
cellular telephones, data transmission, etc.



- 39-
4.17         The project's restructuring activities and improved financial controls will ensure that
TPTC regains solvency and attains financial profitability and improved operational performance.
Specifically, the project will ensure:
(a)    Access to Service: The number of telephones available will increase 70% from
107,600 in 1992 to 183,000 by 1997 (see MOU, Annex 2-3, page 15) and priority
access will be given to large volume subscribers who will promote economic
development in other sectors. The number of lines in Dar-es-Salaam will be increased
by 38,300, and by 37,100 in other areas.
(b)    OUalty of Service: The percentage of working lines will increase from 66% of
connected lines L- 90%, putting a total of 30,000 of the existing 105,000 lines back
into operation. The call completion rate will improve from approximately 25% of all
calls placed to 40% in 1997. Average faults cleared in 24 hours will increase from
65% to 75% by 1997.
(c)    Financial Performance: As a result of the restructuring effort and the planned
expansion, TPTC will be cash generative and profitable to: (i) cover its operating
costs, including an adequate provision for maintenance of its operational and
infrastructure assets; (ii) meet its debt service obligations; (iii) generate a sufficient
cash-flow to cover futre rplacement investmnents in operating assets to maintain and
expand its effective capacity; and (iv) prepare the sector for eventual privatization.
(d)   Operational Performance:  An MOU and an MD signed in March 1992 and
covenants in the IDA project agreement provide for significantly increased operational
autonomy for TPTC, including setting operational plans and budgets, appointing and
remunerating staff, increasing tariffs to cover inflation and devaluation, and selecting
the Director General. A manpower development plan with career planning and
performance based compensation will be implemented. The number of staff per 1000
DEL will be reduced from 76 in 1992 to 40 in 1997 (see MOU, Annex 2-3, page 15).
As indicated above, the number of working connected lines will increase to 90%
while the number of available lines used by subscribers (exchange fill) will increase
progressively throughout the project and beyond.
RW
4.18         The principal risk in the sector is the effects of non-collection of revenues. As has
been mentioned, there are some indications that a considerable amount of traffic both for national and
intenational calls is not being billed. The financial projections are based on historical revenues,
which excludes all non-billed traffic, and is therefore a conservative estimation. However, if non-
collections continue to increase over the project period, the financial viability of the project may be
pi         . Calculations indicate that if non-collections exceed 25% of the projected revenues, the
financial rate of reurn will become negative. One of the main objectives of this project is to institute
controls in the Management Information System (MIS) and billing systems, and therefore it is
exected that the non-billing will not be an issue in the future.
4.19         The other risks that this sector in particular and all other sectors in general face in
Tanzania is that of devaluation of currency. Since this risk is a factor of many macro economic
variables, it is not possible for the telecommunications sector to control this risk. However, all



- 40 -
possible measures are being taken by TPTC (e.g. tying international calls to the $US DoLar) to
safeguard against this constaint. In addition, the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and Economic Rate
of Return (ERR) is an indication that the project is financily sound and will be able to withstand
further flucuation of up to 20% (in addition to the devaluation aleady considered).
Least Cost Sodion
4.20         The investment program is the least cost solution for providing the service levels
planned, within the constraints imposed by the existing configuration and technology of the
telecommunication network. The timing and dimensioning of elements in the system are based on
accepted engineering practices for the selection of technology and equipment. A careful review of
different types of technology (radio, wire, satellite, etc.) was made by the consultants and detailed
consideration was given to the price of technology internationally, in Africa, and in Tanzania.
Wherever possible for the project is based on contract prices between TPTC and suppliers under ICB.
Technological solutions and costs were balanced to find the least cost solution for the technological
standard required.



- 41 -
V. AGREMENS REACHED AND RECUMMNIO
5.01         Agreements Reached at Negotiations include:
(a)    By March 31, 1994, the GOT shall (a) establish a regulatory body for
telecomunications and transfer responsibility for regulation of the
teleconmunications sector to this body; and (b) take all actions necessary to permit
private sector involvement in Basic and Non Basic Telecommunications services
(paras. 1.07, 1.12).
(b)    The GOT shall: (a) by Decenber 31, 1993, take all actions necessary to issue or
cause to be issued at least one license for a cellular operator on the basis of
competitive bidding procedures, satisfactory to IDA; and (b) by December 31, 1995,
take all actions necessary to issue licenses to private sector operators or investors for
two other Non-Basic Telecommnications services (para. 1.08, 1.09).
(c)    The GOT shall, by no later than March 31, 1994, take all necessary measures to
establish two new entities to be responsible respectively for TPTC's postal and
telecommunications functions (pam. 1.07).
(d)    The GOT shall, by the date of the mid-term review: (i) furnish to IDA for its review
and comments the recommendations of a study on the scope and extent of private
sector involvement in the telecommunications sector; and (ii) prepare and submit to
IDA an action plan, taking into account IDA's comments, for the involvement of the
private sector in the telecommunications sector (para. 3.09).
(e)    TPTC, on behalf of the GOT, will prepare annually, for IDA's review, a comparative
analysis of the actual performance of TPTC against the performance indicators in the
MOU and as indicated in Annex 2-4 (para. 1.13, 3.38).
(f)    The GOT and TPTC, shall by not later than December 31, 1995, carry out jointly
with IDA and the Donors, a mid-term review of the Project. Such review shall
include, inter alia, an assessment of (i) satisfactory compliance with the Project
implementation schedule, (ii) satisfactory compliance with the performance indicators.
(iii) the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework for teleommunications,
(iv) operation of the regulatory body for telecommunications, (v) issuance of licenses
to private sector operations, (vi) operation of the new telecommunications entity, (vii)
progress in the divesture of the activities of TPTC agreed to, and (viii) progress in
the installation of a comprehensive billing system for telecommunications. Two
months prior to this review, the GOT, with assistance from TPTC, shall prepare and
furnish to IDA and the Donors, a report, including, inter alia, a review of the results
of the efficiency audits and the status of actions implemented in accordance with the
Program, as well as progress made in implementation of the Project (paras. 1.07,
3.28).
(g)    TPTC shall take all necessary actions to divest: (a) by December 31, 1993, its motor
vehicle repair, printing and building construction works; and (b) by December 31,



-42 -
1994, its customer premise installations, and sale of customer terminal equipment and
equipment repair activities (para. 1.14).
(h)    TPrC shall by December 31, 1994, create profit and cost centers for its network
installations, bill collections and staff college (para. 1.14).
(i)    TPTC shall, but not later than March 31, 1995, complete installation of a
comprehensive billing system for telecommunications services tisfacory to IDA
(para. 2.22).
()    TPTC shall by the date of the mid-term review fimish to IDA its time bound action
plan satisfactory to IDA to implement the reomndations of the GOT to inoduce
private sector participation into basic services for telecounications (pam. 3.09).
(k)    TPTC shall not undertake any investment estimated to cost in excess of the equivalent
of $2,000,000 without the prior approval of IDA.
(I)    TPTC shall adjust tariffs semi-annually by March and Septembaer in each year to
cover inflation and devaluation, in accordance with the formula in the Minsteria
Directive and Memorandum of Understanding (para. 1.19, 2.20).
(m)   TPIC shall maintain a debt equity ratio of 60:40 by the end of the first year that the
project is effective and maintain this level throughout the project life (para. 1.18,
4.06(i));
5.02 The Conditions for Credit Effectiveness will be:
(a)   the selection of consultants for a the efficiency audit, and financial review completed
(para. 3.31);
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
TPIC;
(c)    TPTC shall have submitted to IDA audited financial staem   for 1992, acceptable to
IDA (para. 2.26);
(d)    TffC shall have selected and commenced procuemt of a comprehensive billing
system, acceptable to IDA, for all telephone, telex, and telegraph services (para.
2.22);
(e)   the GOT will have submitted to IDA a Letter of Sector Policy (paras. 1.04, 3.06);
and
(f)    TPIC will have selected a Financial Controller with qualfications and experience,
and under terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association (para.
2.33).
5.03 The Conditions for Disbursement will be:



-43-
(a)    Paymns mde for eenditurs under Category (1Xa) can be made once TPTC has
employed a firm with quafications and expie   saifactory to IDA to be
responsible for the supervision of the prourm  and implemeion of capital
constucdon activities under the Project (see par. 3.28);
(b)    Payments for etures under Category (1)(b) can be made after IDA notifies
TPTC tOat it may enter into comtmets in respect of works and equipmet under
Phase H.
5.04         Subject to these provisions, the proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an
IDA Credit of SDR 35.6 million (US$ 74.45 million equivalent) to the United Republic of Tanania.



* ANNEXES



I-
Annex 1-1
Page 1  t
TANZAIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
THE
TELECOMMUNICATION
POLICY
OF THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA
NOVEMBER 1992



Annex 1-1
Page 2
CONTENTS
L11   COAM= OE NAUQO= DEXA)M                            ELAM..................................  2
T.   PoS =  QBMDO           ........Q                         ........................ 4
V.    EQF OF  OP10R ................................ 1
VIV. POI_SBEC2RE .................4
VM. PIVAE SC                           CnNGmA                         ...0  ..  9
X.  _U LI  eC             M 0Cn              _M L      A      .........  10
XL    nfRNAMOALOOKi&Of    .........0......1
I                                          ...    ..  ..   ..   ..  ..   ..   ..   ..   10



Annex 1-1
Page 3
ERP           Economic Recovery Progmme
ESAP          Economic and Social Action Pogmmme
GDP           Gross Domesdc Product
GOS           Grade of Sevice
INMARSAT   Intenation  Maritme Sate  gt iio
ITU                      Teleommunicato Union
INEISAT    Interatonal Telecommunication Satelite Or n
NESP          National Economic Survival Progamm
PATU          Pan African Telecommunication Union
R&D           Research and Development
SAP           Strucual Adjustment Programme



Annex 1-1
Page 4
TELECOMMUNICATIONS POUCY
ABSTRACT
The development of any sector requires arfly determined stateges in order to achieve
maximum resuts in the particular sector.
The stategies however must be based on clearly defined sectr objective(s) which must be
ralistic and prActiCal.
The foundations of such development are normally contained in a national sector policy for
the sector concerned.
Ihis paper presents such a policy for the sector of Telecommunications.



Annex 1-1
Page 5
I.                            AND NAIAL
1.   Telecommunications is now widely considered to be a stratic  investment to maintin
and deop competve advantage at all levels - national, regional, firm.
Telecommunications consttutes the core of, and provides the infrastructure for, the
informaton economy as a whole. Telecommunicatons facilitates maret entry, improves
customer service, reduces cot and incres productivity. It is an intega part of finanew
services, commodities markets, media, transportation, and tourism, and provides vita links
among  anufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers. Moreover, industr  and commercial
competiive advantage is now not only influenced by avaabilbt  of telecomm
facilites, but also by choice of network altratives and control to recfigu  and manage
networks in line with changes in corpote objectives. Countries and firms that lack access
to modern telecommunicstions systems cannot effecdvely pardcipate in the global economy.
This applies to the least developed countries as much as to middle-income counties, which
aspire to become developed countries in the next decade or so.
2.   Telecommunications sec  are eefore essential for business subscrs in
Tanzania to enable them to effectively compete in local, regnal, and intratnl market.
3.    Agricuture is a main sector of economic activity in Tanzania. Telephone services are
therefore required in rural areas to support agricultural production and distribution.
Telecommunications i  r      is required at al stages of activity beginning with
conveyance of weather report, timely delivery of fetizers, to tsportation. of the produce
from the farms and marketing of the produce witiin and outside the country.
4.   In the case of inadequacy or absence of tem   ons, fam    have to make
watefu tdps looking for ferdlizers, fuels and other sies as a result of imperfec
informaon. The present tuaton in Tannia is that in the rual agriculual areas,
tephone services are not well provided to enable farmers to obtain timely market
infomaton, cumnt prices, information on harestng techniques and instctin on crop
protction.
S.   Telecommnications complements transport services. An efficient telemnin
network reduces the need for travel and reduces the costs assoiated With physical traspr
The costs involved are partclay those related to use of energy, especially fuel, in the
trsport sctor and the ime invested in travel from place to place. By cordinating trps,
through telecommunicons services, fuel cosumpdon can be conserved, cargoes can be
picked in fme, breakdowns can be quicldy reported, and bulk haulage can be soecred. Such
benefits help individuals, companies and the community at large to earn more income and
also reduce cos that could have been icurred; thus ontributing more to national
development and reducing the most burden to the nation.



Annex 1-1
Page 6
-2-
II.  OVERV=W OF NAT1Q DEVELOPIENT NAM
A.   The Long Term PerWective Plan
6.    The first long trm perpectve plan was implemented from 1964/65 - 1980/81.
During this plan, limited emphasis was accorded to telecommunications improvement.
7.    The current second long term plan (1981-2000) has a major emphasis on expansion
and consolidation of the nation's economic base. During this petiod mining, manufng,
transport and communications sectors will increase their contribution to GDP. The
ntribution of transport and communicadon is envisaged to increase from 6.3% in 1980 to
8.4% by the yeaw 2000.
.   The main sectoral objective for telecommunications is to introduce tlephone seices
in as many areas as possible.
9.   During implemet  of the current long term pspective plans, there have been
undertaen two five year development plans (1981/82 - 1985/86 and 1988/89 - 1992/93). In
between, prgrammes like Nationa Economic Survival Programme (NESP) between 1981 -
1982, Structal Adjustment Proramne (SAP) between 1982/83 and 1984/85, Economic
Reowvery Programme (ERP 1) between 1986/87 and 1988/89 and Economic and Social
Acdon Progamme (ESAP and ERP II) between 1989/90 and 1991/92 were undaen .
B.   SAAdiustment L      fgamme (SAP
10.   Under the SAP priority was given to stuctcu  adjustment and epanson of
producdve sectors.
C.   Ecoomic R=          Pgmme f            AM   -SA;
11.   One of the major obectives of the economic recovery progamme was to rehabilitate
the physical in6fas   of the country in support of directy productive activities. Limted
progess was made under the BRP and ESAP to imve maintenance and expand capacity of
the tecomm           network.
D.   The Second Union Five Year Dvelom en no
12.  During this perod, emphasis continued to be given to economic services, especialy to
transport and communications. High pority was given to mant      and rehilittion of
the otanspo  and c          infra      . In so far as teleommun     is
concaned the main objecdve was to extend these services with the aim of reachng more
areas aid people as well as controling fr-equent servie ine ttios



Annex 1-1
Page 7
-3-
m.   PO PMANE OF wECOMMUDlATS,lONS OPE3RATOR
A.        oh
13.  Currently telecommunicaton services are provided by a state owned monopoly
coporato- the Tananian Posts and Telecommunications Corporatioa (T. Ihe main
services provided are teephone, telex, telegraph, facsimile, and data transmission.
14.  Telephone service is one of the media of commun n which is etensively used in
Tanzania.
15.  Under the  Mgnt of TPTIC, telephone service has been expandd to cover
mainly the urban cente  of the country. Most urban centers have been provided with
automatic switching systems. Telecommunication services have also been provied in a
limited number of rural areas.
16.  The Grade of Sevice (GOS) and the service quality is poor. Ths is demo ed by
poor call completion rates and the frequent long dution faults that have become a common
phenmena in the networks.
17.   Gradual and stmatic introduction of digital switching and transmion is yielin
some positv results. However, the situain is still far from satisfactory. Service demand
is more than double the number of connected  bscribers, and is rapidly grwing.
B.   Telex Smzim
18.  Telex service is being provided though th    main tele echnges located in DSM,
Arws  and Dodoma. Telex service has atacted a lot of  stomers and is extensively used
in business           However,, the quality of service offered bas not been up to the
required      . The demand for this service is on the increase despite the short fails.
C.         S
19.  Ibis s a ew and fast grwing srvice in the countty. It has attacted many
cusomers and the demand is very high. As in the tlephone service the quality of sevme
offered is not satisfactory.
D.gmmtoEbomof3



Annex 1-1
Page 8
-4-
20.   The poor tlecommunicadon serce offered in the country can be attributed to:
-   Severe congeston at some exchanges and junction circuits.
-   Congeston in the trunk network caused by inadequat  ansmission facilities
and degraded system performance.
-   High percentage of faulty equipmt and derored outside plant On the
average there are about 30 fuls per 100 teephon  per month with mos of
the fauts ocuing in the local network
-   Unavalabi  of spare pa  for the old analog  equipment.
-  Poor financial managent.
IV. POCY OVSCM
21.  The Government is committed to ensuring that te problem  are resolved and to
ensuring gt  the sctor op es more efficiently. The Government's main policy aims are
to ensue that:
(a)   service is provided to as. many people as is economically and socialy justified
in both urban and rual areas;
(b)   a full ne  of basic and value-added sevices are provided on a tmely basis to
salis  cus_to    demand;
(c)   telecommunication services are efficiently and cos-ectively provided in part
tirough the introducin of competitn;
(d)   resurc  avaUable to the sco are maximizedtugh privat set
involvement;
(e)   tehia sltndards for telons equipment and servc  are
developed and complwid with;
(f)   tariff polcies are libelized over time in appwpriate market segmen;
(g)   telecommunications manufacturing is encouraged only in ea where it is
economically jusified;



Annex 1-1
Page 9
(h)   reliable communications media for information for such sevices such as TV,
radio, etc;
(i)   R & D in telecommunicadons is encouraged; and
Gj)   regional and international coopetion in temmu    s is enhanced in a
search for common development stfategies and network stndrds.
To this end, the Government will:
(a)  limit the Government role in the sector to seting sector policy;
0)   establish a polically independent regulatory body which will be appointed by
the Government. The functions of this body are outlined in secdon VI of this
document;
(c)   require the commerdaizaton and co     n  of TPTC to operate with a
market orientation. The performace of TPTC will be monitored through
formance contrats;
(d)   legalize and require that the reguary body foster the involvement of private
companies m basic and value added serc;
(e)   establish a policy, regulatory, and resource mobizaon stategy which will
provide for the rehabilitation and expion of the basic telecommuntions
network in urban and rral areas;
(f)   require a regulatory body to esblish and monitor operator compliance with
service quality standards;
(g)   enhance the sector's capaity to not only reowver costs but mobilize
fiscalsorces thrugh, taxes and dividends and as a reslt improve its net
contdbution to the national budget;
(h)   reure that a reuy body implement policies and prov  licenses to
promote the introducton of modern telecommunication t gies including
digital, fiber optc, satellite, and rdio technologies in the swithg and
tmn        systems and the exter  line iplant Partcular emphasis will.be
placed on new technologies that can be used economicaly in nral atias. In
addition, emphasis will be given to ensming the intoduction of new seMces
such as cellular mobile, paging, elcuonic mil, cordless tele ,  csimile
conferencing, vdeoconferencing, videotex, and piate and alternave
netw   . A regulaty body will be rquired to establish and fulhll targets to



Annex 1-1
Page 10
-6-
enur private as well as public sector participaton in the provision of these
services; and
(i)   review and revise existing laws, acts, and govenment prcedures.
V.   ROEQ OFQEz!BAt
22.  Once a reguatory body has been establised the sector  iies, which
remain exclusively the province of the Government, are to:
(a)   define the sectoal policy (resource mobiliatin, den level, and
policy for mrual telecommunications) and a   that the policies are
imp>lemented;
(b)  interact with other relevant Government dqatments on all qwesi   dealing
with national security and any other concems of the Goverment in the area of
teeomuicaions;
(c)   prent the Government within regional and in nt    m un n
bodies aling with quesons of general sdctod policy, and conclude  atisa,
agreements, conventions and intenat   regulations i this aea; and
(d)   define a mechanism  by which the use' views could be periodically obtained,
for instance once a year.
VI.  S13=CI      IL&2IQN
23.   A poitically independent rguatoy body, apointed by the Govemma, *will be
established. Its authorit will include monitring of all issues related to telecommunications
and enforcing comliance with the Govenmet's policy. The main funcins of this unit will
be t:
(a)   define te taiff policy and apr   the rates for basic rvices laid down
under this polcy. TPTC, however, would retain the ight to a lly
inase tariffs on a semi-amual bais to cover inflato and devaluation;
(b)   define the indicator of sevice quaIt and the financial return exwecd from
the opeating bodies, and monitor coml     with ths standards;
(c)   aLocate the frequenies and administr the radio pcrm  tchnicl
ma_Igement in an efficient and ordely manner and monitor the radio
frequenies to avoid channel intef  and maximize the ulizatio of
available frequencies;



Annex 1-1
Page 11
-7 -
(d) grant licenses to operate telecommunications linhks, private networks or value-
added services to all operators of telecommunications services and devices
(public and pnvate). Procedures for licng and type approval will be issued
by the reguatory unit and will be made public;
(e)   grant licenses for subscrbers' instllations, networks and equipment to
qualified private contractors, approve subscribers' equipment and terminals,
and authorize sale and conntion to the network, of such equipment by
private licensees. The technical complexity of a telecommunications network
requires that each part should operate within specified technical parameters.
The regultory unit will ensure that all suppliers of equipment and service
providers connecting to the public network meet the required technical
standards;
(t)   promote the development of competition; and
(g) review interconnection and revenue sharing arrangements.
24.  Existing laws, acts and Govenment procedures will be reviewed as requred to
inorporate policy requrements. Where appropriate new acts and laws will be implemented.
VIL  3  5 ROLE OF 0P 1A\G ENTlE
A.   3=
25.  TPTC has been the only network operating entity in the country with the sole
authority to provide public telecommunicaion seices. Pursuant to this policy, however,
other operating entities incuding those from the prvate sector wilU be allowed to opate
networks and provide basic or specialized services.
26.  TPIC is a public corpadon which opates within the laws and regulations set by
the Govemnment. TPrC is presided over by a Board of Directors, chosen for their
competence, and should be composed of representatives of the Government, the private
sector, and the user community. The Govemment wiUl ensure that TPIC operates efficiently
and commercaly in order for its services to be competitive in a libaled oprating
envirnet.
27.. In this regard, TPIC will act within the legal ftamework of the 1977 TPrC Act (as
revised), the Public Corporation Act No. 2 of 1992, the Memowandum of Undertanding
between TPTC and the Government and the Ministerial Directive No. 1, both dated
31.3.1992. These documents provide TPTC with autonomy and accountability for its
operations and defines specific performance targets.



Annex 1-1
Page 12
8
28.  Existng laws and directives will be amended where it will be recognized that such
amendment will facilitate implementation of this policy. Non-core funetions within TPTC
will be divested including printing, motor vehicle repair, and construction by December 31,
1993. Postal and Telecommunications activities would be separated by December 31, 1993.
29.   Furdier studies will be made in order to improve the efficiency of TPTC and to raise
the necsary capital for the expansion of the telecommunications networ
B.   Others
30.  Other private and possibly public opertng entities will be allowed to provide value
added and, where approriate, basic telecommunications services under these policy
guidelines. Procedures for application of licenses, conpliance with technical smandards, and
other opeAtg condifions and guidelines will be issued by the reguatory unit. They will be
required in particular to:
(a)   manage and operate the telecommunications services under teir control in a
completely professional manner, in accordance with methods and procedures in
force in the sector and in observance of the principles of economy and
efficiency;
(b)   stay abreast of trends in demand, plan the introducton of new services or the
extension of exsting ones; design, prepare and implement extensions or
upgrades to the infrastuctu  on the basis of the most advantageous technical
and economic approach;
(c) manage their personnel autonomously, including hiring and dismissals, in
accordance with the law and the regulations in force; make prposals for
changes in pay levels and pay-scales, and provide introductory and ongoing
staff taining;
(d)   manage their own financial resowurces and cash flow autonomously and in
acordance with the systems and procedures applicable to similar enterprises;
contract loans and isue bonds; however, TELECOM would receive
compensaton from the Government, the amount of which would be agreed
upon in the Program Contract, for non-profitable services to be provided upon
Government's requests.
(e)   prpare annual and multi-annual investment plans and operating.acounts;
(M.  define and propose revisions to the level and struct of tarif for basic
sevices, and define and iniate rates for new servies, and changes in rates
for services not under the control of the Govemment



Annex 1-1
Page 13
9-
(g)   conclude contra for equipment and services in accordance with procedures
applicable to similar enterprises;
(h)   bring actions or go to court, if necessary, in the event of disagreements with
tiird pardes;
(i)   suspend or cancel service to users who do not meet their obligations; and
0j)   tkoe part in regional and itenaional conferences, commitle and workng
groups dealing with tchnical, adminitatve and operational matters in the
field of telecommunications.
VUL    _ COAND
31.  Private sctor involvement and competition can promote opeatonal efficiency and
also attract investors to provde the necessary investment capital in telecommunicauons. In
considem tion of the need to extend the network and pwvide the basic services, the
Government will promote a competitive environment within the telecommunicons sector.
32.  Private sector   ticip   and compeiion is a process which will be determed by
the need to extend services to the population and the necesity to meet r e ts of
specfi groups such as busnesses.
33.   Private sector paricipaion and compettion will be expanded starting with network
terminal equipment such as telephone sets and telex teminals, subsber prmises wiigt
provision of value added services such as public access information services and speciaized
communication services such as mobile services followed by basic telecommunication
services.
34.  The introduction of private sector p on and competition will inmcrease the
scope for competition in telecommunication and motivate network opwatr and suppliers of
equipmnt to perffom efficiently and econom;ically. The public will also benefit from the
wider range of telcommu       equipment and services available on the market.
35.   General priciples covering interonnton and detmining  teronnectin fees will
be establshed by the reguatory unit and made public.
IX.     ICIN
36.   Operating entities will use iternationally recognized accounting pincpls applicabl
to the busness.
37.   Taiffs to be adopted will have to meet the criteria of defidenq and omdi



Annex 1-1
Page 14
- 10-
38.  The regulatory unit will have responsibility for setting tarffs, though in time and in
competitive market segments it may choose to allow prces to be market determined.
39.  Tariffs will be increased by sufficient amount to ensure an adequate return on asset as
well as to enable replacement of assets, out of its intemally generated cash flows.
40.  TPTC will tin the right to adjust tadffs to compensate for inflation or exchange
rate fluctuations whenever required but an allowance for inceasing efficiency should be
included.
X. RURAL  M&CMUCADOM DEOP
41.   One of the goals of the sector policy is to extend basic serices to the rWal areas in
order for the majority of the population to enjoy the benefits of telecommunications and also
to suport economic development. Opratng entities will provide services to rura areas
where such services are commeyvabe
42.   Where the Government, in fulfilling national development goals, may require the
provision of telecommunications serices to non-viable rural areas, the loss will be calculated
and the opwerating entity will be compensated appropriay by the Government within the
geed period.
43.  A rurl telecommuimcations development fund will be established for the etension of
the network to rurl areas. Fund contrbutions will be calculated seaely from the tariffs
and made explicit to the financing of rural telecommunications. Funding is epected to ome
from service users, operating entities, the Govemment, etc.
XL INTERNATINQAL AQOPERAION
44.  The Govemment and Opating Entities will ensure a close monitoring of
developments in the teecommunications field worldwide by coopating closely with such
int tional and regional  aizions such as T[U, INTELSAT, IMARSAT, PATU, etc.
45.  Furthermore, operating entities, in addition to being members of such  izaions
where considered appropriae, will paricipate in seminars, conferences and other activities of
such o   ons in order to enhance their understanding and acquaint thmselves with
developments in the sector.
XII.  CONC
46.   The proposed sector policy will enable fister development of tle telecom ications
infriatucture coupled with improved quality of service to telecommications  tomers
The intduction of competition and the private sector    ent which is contained in the



Annex 1- 1
Page 15
- 11 -
policy will remove exisig inefficiencies and bureaucracy associated with monopolistic
opeations. Con      t, long overdue servces and networks can be established that meet
the needs of spedalized grups or the public in general.
47.   Furthermore, the technological aspects of the policy augurs well wth such an
opeing ennnt as it sets out clarly the guiding principles of opaaon thus,
minimi;ing network incompaibilites This particular aspect of the policy is furter
enhaned by the proposed regulatory unit which will closely supise and monitor its
observance.
48.   Last but not least, the policy provides the necessary incenthi to increase
telecommunicaion investments in the nual areas of this country. A mechanism for funding
Of runr networks has been proposed which is eWected to act as a stimulant for funther
funding by the public and private sectors.



Annex 2-1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
TAMIANIA POST AND TELErCQMMUNIC;ATIONiS CORPORATIONi
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31. 1991
1.   Loc Teleaobnn
Capacity of telephone exchanges, lines                        104.460
of which automatic lines                           85,260
of which manual lines                              19,200
Number of automatic telephone exchanges                            28
Number of manual telephone exchanges                              160
Annual growth in DELs (last 4 years) percent                        6
Number of subscriber connections                               78,000
Average exchange fill, percent                                     75
Unsatisfied demand, number of waiting list                    153,000
II.   Lona Distance Telephone
Total number of long distance circuits                          6,430
(microwave, VHF, UHF, HF, tropospheric
scatter, line-carrier)
Number of Radio call Service Subscribers                          263
Number of Radio call Control Centers                                3
m11.     broteggrarph and Teleo
Number of telegraph offices                                       104
Number of telex offices                                         2,300
Unsatisfied demand for telex subscription,                      2,900
number of waiting list
IV.  Intemational Facilities
(extending circuits to Kenya and Uganda)
Number of telephone circuits                                      119
Number of telex circuits                                           81
Number of telegraph circuits                                       13
B.   Staff
Total telecommunications staff                                  5,078
Number of staff per 1,000 DELs                                     65



TOTAL DEMAND POTENTIAL
60 .TANZANIA 1990 - 2005
*1000 DEL
140_                                   
*  1990
120                       1995
.                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LECIEND:
2000                              .                                 Ltuba
100_                  b   2005                                                            so
60                                                                                           lloosb.p
ve 1   |    I   11               A1                                    ."   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~aeMu
60 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ IC   MB1a  swe...SW    ZSlYlUlT                          B
Timra  TCcnre
40                                                                                      TOL  T.'
20                                                         diIiI
0
ARU BKB DOD 1RG KGM MB? minI MOR MS~M MMA SBy TORI TG.A isa
Primary C.enIrsS



ANNEX 2:2
Page 2 of 2
ESTIMATED GROWTH IN DEMAND FOR TELEPHONE SERVICES
ESTIMATED ANNUAL INCREASE (%)
PRIMARY CENTER NAME  LOCATION 1990 - 1995 1995 -2000 2000 - 2005
Arusha                             13.2        13.8       14.2
Bukoba                              9.1        9.0         8.7
Chake - Chake                       7.9        6.6         7.0
Dodoma                             13.9       14.2        14.5
DSM                                10.1        9.7         9.5
Iringa                             11.1        9.5         9.6
Kidatu                              3.0        3.0         3.0
Ki;oma                              9.7        9.7        10.1
Kilosa                              5.0        3.3         3.0
Korogwe                             4.8        4.2         3.8
Undi                                7.5        6.2         6.4
Lushoto                             4.0        3.8         3.6
Masasi                              2.9        3.0         3.0
Mbeya                              11.7       12.6        10.8
Morogoro                           11.4        9.7         7.8
Moshi                              10.8       12.0        12.9
Mtwara                              8.2        7.0         6.0
Musoma                              9.4        8.5         8.7
Mwanza                             13.8       11.3        11.5
Newala                              2.7        3.0         3.0
Njombe                              3.9        3.7         4.0
Same                                3.6        3.9         3.6
Shinyangs                           9.2        8.2         7.0
Singida                             8.2        6.4         6.6
Songea                              7.8        7.5         6.9
Tabora                             10.4        9.7         8.7
Tanga                              14.1       11.6        11.7
Tukuyu                              4.3        4.6         4.6
Zanzibar                            9.1        9.4         9.6
GRAND TOTAL            Tanzania    10.7       10.4        10.4



Annex 2-3
Pane 1 of 17
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii
.
' -  Ul1Tm               D IIEP R3LWC 0F tAZA
Im    Y  OF COMMlCATIM  AND  BWWoR
M INI   AL DIRECTIVE NO,* 0I.a.. .dated. .. 1992
UW TDNZAIU POSTS AND TELEXOMICAIQS COMFORAfIM AC?.
1977 (No.5 of  77)
Z4WISTERIAL DIRFCTIVE
.Made ander Sction 12
1. This Ministerial Directive may be cited as the TPTC
Ministerial Direotive No.J....  of 1992... and dsll cOMe Ito
effect as frau lst Jarsary, 1992.
2.  In aecordance with the prov8isins of the  anzai Posti
eud ?eec      ations Corporation Act the Mnlister is
desirus that the TPTC provides adequate and reliable teleo90
mmcation services on an efficient and commercial basis.
3. To that end, the Government intends pursuant to the TPTC
Act and this Directive to clarify the role and powers of TPTC#
to assist TPTC to establish an appropriate corporate plan ed
to aet out certaLn obligations and practices, which will
enable TPTC to adbalnister its undertaklng on the basis of
sound business principles with a view to generating through
sustained efficient and commercial operations Income suffi-
cient to meet its expenditures and earn a rdto of return or:
Its assets sufficient to sustain efficient and commercial
operations and return a profit to the shareholders.
4. To ensure that the Corporation Improves its performance
the Govenment shall set with TPTC long-teon objectives for
TPTC including monitorable indicators alinst which TPTC's
performance shall be judged. TPTC's performance in meeting
... *0



Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 17
.... 2/ 
such objectives and targets shall be evaluated and reviewed
anualy tbrough on id         t  efficiency audit. IS TPTC
achieves a positive net Lneome before depreciation, taxes-
and nterest, the Go0rrment will appre a bonus of not
less than 15% of the net ince a before depreciation, taxes,
and interest. If TPTC fails to meet the obJectives and
targets the Government may impose appropriate sanctions
including but not limited to, ordering the reduction of
payment incetives to 7% of the net income before depreciation
and taxes to employees, reducing payment incentives to top
uanagement, and instructing the Board to replace employees
In key management positiso.
5.  Sections 13 and 14 of the TPTC Act set forth some or the
functions and powers of the Corporation to be exercised by
the Board and by the Director General respectively.
Without deropting from the generality of the foregoing
the role of the Boadt shal inolude the following:-
(a) Highaighting policy issues for TPTC for decision by
Government in such areas as sector diverstiture,
joint vetures and regulatory requirements.
(b) Providing strategic  uidace to TPTC's management
and monitor performance within the overall
framework of longterm obaectives of the Government
for the sector.
(a) Ensuring that -the working relationship between the
Board and t1he Management is conducive tothe smooth
fuctioning of the comenial operations of TPTC.
6.  Under Section 21 of the TPTC Act, TPTC shall not be
required to provide services to any authority either
pmtuitously or at a rate or charge whlih is insufficient
to meet the cost involved In the proviion of such services,
.0...



Annex 2-3
Paqe 3 of 17
...~~~~~~~. 3
wiess the aihority @omerned undertakes to make good the
amot of ute loas  Icurd by reasos of the provision of
mob services. In order to ensure compliance with this
(a) Hereby permits Tfl to ad3  t its tariffs with
such        y a TPTC considers comrcal ly
P:d.nt to aneuttaUe the effect of e     "eo   rate
changes o loca Inflation nd to coer its ful
costs under effiLeLnt operating conitLons as
detezuined by the ageed performance Indicators
and inludin  an apprWriate provisLan for rate
of return on the aversge current net value of
P'TC's Fixed Assets; and
(b) undertakes to make good any loss icured by TPTC
by rean of provision of telecoimtuncatious
servicesg iuvesteets or facilitLes at the
directi     of the Goverment.
7,  Aa part of the vector restruturing process1 the goe-
ment wil esabsh a regulatory body within the Minlstr
of Commmications and Transport for the teleomst
sector.
S. It Is further directed that La orler to operatLonalize
and expand ths Directive, the PrincLpal Secr.:tary shal
after osultation with the MinLister, from time to tle,
enter Into a perfoasce agreent, memorandu  of
waderstanLtng, or other instrument with TIc, consistent
with the provisions of this Diretive and the TPTC Act.
MmISm FOR COWEUNICATIOS$S AND TRANSPORT
'UR.  ,AM!
'311! WAR=, 192



Annex 2-3
Page 4 of 17
TANZA  POSTS AND TIC          CATIOiS
NKSTRTURIWSG P     AM
MMOnum 0tr UDSaTANING, dated. 3P. A3... 1992
TE  O          Of TtE UtITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
THE MINISTRY. OF COMMUNICATIONS AND TRANSPORT (UCT)
AtND
TANZANIA POSTS AND TKLKCONNUNICATIONS CORPORATION (TPTC)
1.   The  Government. consistent with  the Tanzania  Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation  Act fbereinafter  referre~d
t-  iS  t.he  TPTC  Act; and   the  Ministerial  Directive
No.-....... dated.3t.3.92 is desirous  that TPTC  provides
postal  and  telecommunications  services,  regulates  and
nontrols  radio   communications  on   an  efficient   and
nommercial basis.
2.   Tn conformity with this TPTC will  tndertake all necessary
actions within its powers. inter alia. to:
(^a closely plan its level and pattern of services to
meet the changing needs of its customers: and
(b) manage its operations so that services are provided
efficiently and in a cost effective manner.
3.   TPTC will carry on its operations and conducz its  affairs
in accordance uith soind administrative. financial and
operations management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers. To that end. TPTC will implement:
l a   the  revised  corporaze organisational  strufture set
forth in Attachment 1: and
IbI  the  manpower requirements  schedule  set  forth  in
Attachment   2.      Number of   employees  incluies
permanent and casual staff.



Annex 2-3
Pae 5 of17   73
-2-
4.  The Governmet shall revise TPTC's capital structure so as
to   eliminate  the   financial  losses   arising   from
retranslation of foreign loans followins the devaluation of
the Tanzaniaz currency.
5.  In carrying out its operations and financial affairs, TPTC
will use its best efforts to achieve the operational
taets  as well as rates of return  on total capital
employed set forth in Attachment. 3. It is understood that
such performance shall be subJect to review and to
amendment, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 20.
further, it is understood that the rates of return on
capital employed specified in Attachment 3 shall be subject
to amendment to take account of the revaluation of assets
to be undertaken as parz of the Telecommunications
Restructuring Project. For purposes of this Memorandum.
capital employed means the sum of capital provisi.Az.s lontdg
term  and short-term  debt, accumulated profits and losses
and any revaluation  surplus.  Profits to be taken into
account in determining the rate of return shall be profits
before interest on debt but after depreciation.
6.  The Government shall support and provide all the facilities
and other resources required by TPTC in the implementation
of the revised corporate organisation and capital struczure
referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 respectively. To ensure
that TPTC can continue tc adapt iTs manpower .evels to
changing commercial conditions, as provided in the
Directive,  TPTC  may  reduce  its  staff  complement as
necessary   for  efficiency   and  commercial.  purposes.
Accordingly TPTC shall implement the manpower restructuring
as shown in Attachment 2.
7.   Pursuant to sections 21 and 101 of the TPTC Act,  the
Government affirms the principle tbat TPTC in costing its
services shall make full provision for the realia-.:!or. 'f
a rate of return on its net fixed assets as periodically
revalued sufficient to cover its financing charges on
existing assets plus a provision for depreciation and
profits. Further to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Directive,
efficient operation means that TPTC shall meet, the
technical, operational and financial targets as shown in
Attachment 3.
S.   Pursuant to section 21 of the TPTC Act. lsses incurred by
TPTC in the provision of serrices at the directicn cf the
Government will be determined on a semi-annual basis by
TPTC and presented to the MfinistrY of Finance. Payments to
TPTC to make good such losses will be made to TPTC pursuant
to appropriate Government budgetary procedures as decided
by the Ministry of Finance. The Government will make such
payments not later than sixty days after presentation of
the seMi-annual assessment of the losses.  Such payments
will be subject to audit, and adJustments will be made on
the basis of such audits. Po other losse1   incurred by TmTC
in its operations shall be r6imbursed by the Government.



Annex 2-3
Page 6 of 17
-3
9.  The Government hereby permits TPTC to undertake investmnts
in support of its comercial operations subject only to
submission to the Ministry of Communications and Transport,
as part of the annual capital budgeting process, of
technical economic and financial evaluation of any
investment exceeding OSS2. 0 million which it proposes to
undertake outside of the planned programme of investments
under the Proposed Telecommunications Restructurins
Project.  It is understood that this later figure will be
subject to review on an annual basis taking into account
changes in the prices of telecommunication services assets.
10. To support TPTCs ability to maintain an efficient level of
operating performance, the Government shall:-
(a) ensure that the list of items eligible under the open
General Licence System at any point covers all
categories of items likely to be imporzed by TPTC for
use in its maintenance activities.
(b)  permit TPTC to retain in foreign exchange Accounts
under its control not less than 35% of its revenue
which is paid in foreign exchange including inpaymnts
from foreign administrations.
11. TPTC shall prepare by 15th August every year beginning 1992
and furnish to MCT a report for the period January - June
setting forth, inter alia;
(a) its performance as against the operational targets set
forth in Attacbment 3;
(b)  its profit and loss and cashflows for the six months
and,  if  relevant,  revised  proJections  for  the
financial year as a whole:
(c) statement of Progress on key capital proJects tinder
implementation and compared to those contemplated in
its capital budget approved by KCT; and
(d) any actions which it proposes to take to remedy and
major deviations which have been identified in the
said report.



Annex 2-3
Faoe 7 of 1?
-4-
12.  Promptly at the end of each TPTCs financial year and in any
event not later than three months after sucb year end, TPTC
shall prepare and furnish to MCT a report on its
performance against the targets set forth in Attachment 3
to this Memorandum, a preliminary statement of its
financial position, a narrative report on the causes of
deviations   of  actual  performance  from  the  agreed
performance, proposals for revisions of the original
targets, statement of progress on key capital project under
implementation -and compared to those contemplated in its
capital budget approved by MCT, and recommendations on
corrective actions which should be taken by TPTC or MCT to
remedy any maJor deviations from the agreed targets.
13.  Pursuant to paragraph 4 of the Directive, the Government
will not later than 15 March each year beginning 1993
appoint an independent team of at least two consultants to
carry out an efficiency audit of the performance of this
Agreement.   The efficiency audit shall be based on the
reports prepared by TPTC under paragraphs 11 and 12 of this
Memorandum and any other information as the consultants may
require.    TPTC  shall  furnish  to  the  committee  all
additional information, documents and explanation necessary
to finalize the evaluation reports.
The report of the Consultants shall set forth:
(a) their findings on the performance of TPTC against the
targets shown in Attacbment 3 of this Agreement;
(b)  causes of significant deviations of actual performance
from the agreed targets; and
(c)  their recommendations concerning actions that ought to
be taken by MCT and TPTC to remedy major deviations
identified in the said report.
14.  Immediately after the completion of the efficiency audit
but in any event not later than 15 April each financial
year, the findings and recommendations of the consu.tants
shall  be  reviewed  by  a  Committee  composed  z'   3
representatisves appointed one each by T?TC Board, MCT and
the Ministry of Finance. After review of the efficiency
audit report, the Committee shxall:
(a) decide any action to be taken by TPTC and NCT to
implement the findings aLud recommendations identified
in the efficiency audit report.
(b   furnish to the Minister and TPTC Board recommendatio'
for improving TPTC's performance.       e          a



Annex 2-3
rage R   of 17
-5-
15. After review by NCT of each of the reports referred to in
paragraphs 11 to 14 of this Memorandum, the finister %halL
determine any actions he deems necessary for improving the
nmgement of T?TC's affairs with respect to the ensuing
financial year. Based on their performance. .TPTC's Board
and  magement will be rewarded or penalized, fith the
possibility of dismissal.
16. The Government permits TPTC to determine its own personnel
policies including, inter alia. pay, incentives and
conditions of service wbich will enable TPTC to attract and
retain appropriately  qualified and  experienced  staff.
These policies will take precedence over existing,
regulations..
17. TPTC shall redommend to tCT by 1 June, 1S92 ar. action plan
for   spliting   TPTC    into   separate   ;ostal   and
telecommunications Corporations.   The split shall take
effect on January 1, 1994.
18. The Government and TPTC shalL cooperate fully to assure
tha% the objectives of this Memorandum are accomplished.
To that end, the Goverment or TPTC, as the case may be,
will promptly inform each other of any condition which
interferes  with  or  threatens  to  in.terfert  with  %: i-
achievement of the objectives *.f this Heracre:.e:U.
19. This Memorandum shall become effective as from January .
1992 and shall be continuous except that there shall be a
major review of the obJectives and targets every five
years.
20. Any amendements to this Memorandum  or the Attachments
thereto shall be effected by mutual agreetent cf th'
parties through an exchange of letters.
~~~~~.         . .                 .  .  ...  ----...  ............*---* l
On behalf of MlCT                                    TPt77..
Dated. Allj..199-1. - .a.. .                           fi
PItrIPAL SECREARY IAO AO                   d  CIF THE C0ARD    r
tlINISTBRY OF COIMtMlICATIOlNS          OF DIRECTORS 
AND TRANSPORT 



TANARt& P011AN LIII         I"TOV CRt0MflOu
APDSOVS OSGtIUTIQR IT8UMUU 
%a
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
................................. ~ 4  ~I             ..-- -..-- -.--. -. --
4                                            *
* D(VEWP VET MID TRAINING             3A *AWE              I



*        . I  **- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    A
II    ,.9        II                    a                                s 9       W   1           I    C
en          11     A...      Sg                                                       MC4@.6
36  RD#@A1    I I"                                                 M  I I I  "J.  6I           *ome
*  -ymuiinsissi   III ITNICIlIM. '.*6           *lan &        6                            *im IIIom"o     
*- IOU  A    I 0-                             11MAENU3II    ___I ______
i* S                          SOSavPPATIOS   I6CU*39                x 9S66I II
ii  .6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8o-6U33TI3AT1UA  S5ATI6AMADI IT WOM    I II                                         * I4    CCIPA
SI                                           ------'A.                                   __________4C
65f    I'   665nITI ut-: MA.:MS..A& A*O 5IC
.*.......   .                                                                        fita--  I-MI __________r_ . s-a-a--,
*  I   LAN UW1VU  I OAIAJ$ II ~9SA  10JlA  * ~W      UMCA    AUNSM   TASP t mVA
*  I  UTWAb   ____*1           .                                                          H-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:MILN   Il
kI1      7fS IAO A*ArnvCoIO _____1___0
Ca  Cliff-?LLJLOJLS  -J LLJW ItI
*                                                              -* t9                    .  Banv   acos.  t  ICMDIlII
molit ivljff"lx rdmamAI  hA 0A?bOISALA



MSM       hd~Imhc.r4. 4tgAtv 
I  CP
I GCOMIIES   I   rAtt.   ..VL.t I 2I@m    tk.OWE,
~ agezt1u1i*@b33It i                   . I    .                I-  .
*    .            .                         I                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-   INDtIaIIAIOUS   
.I,   aci*                                 .         aa                                   *
*    cpc  S   I~~~~~~~~~~ofw"
IL                                                                                   ratoomli tWali~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DOD                     I                 I     PVNAINS       
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A               Cif  4CWI
S           I ?~~OEAIMZGNI8CS



71 M1A  D|>t-IS -   St                                                                   Slots  - |m
A W-11t                                                  1 0lJ l t 9 1V        I  4       VIXtVOI  Iy    IC .  Y S IU   I   m n . I
, t                     .                                      ;og .* .*-,_ 
--t=  W ISVIlq Idowfir  17
.  ., i , . * * _~~MUS"I                                                                  I    _W  vao  $-
* i | * o,e~~~~V, 11i I                                  .                        VW   SI u: #   |*  .14 ||
tnt t~~~~~~~~~ i                                        memos I    n tolva    VI   1  PC AW46OWS|*_-g-    w
., ~  ~ ~ 1 =IMIJ$  II I *o w i1 imm    sm-oi vt# 5    !x t                       !.                         a        a,        -     *
a , , _ - * lswl                ottrPAtg"ob It i  O         |j(                    It



Annex 2-3
Page 13 of 17
Attachment 2
'If 90010  llER XElTUFRXIG PLAN
1990   1991  1992   1993   1994   1995
Staff pr
1000 DU..*  76      76    70    58        53      46
* PerbeZt and casual staff



Annex 2-3
PaiTWe 1 of 17
kttachwent 3
TPTC agrees to meet the folloutng performance
targets:
1.0    - Serve and Prsint       T n zat
g9gi                  igs9   t94   toss
1.1  ?f2*h9l
a)  Exchanre Capacity:
Dar es Salaam  34200  37400  47800  48800   46800   76800
Other          49259  68858  80600  8060n  8n6no   10168
Total          83459 106258 1 28400 1`9400) ":94s'I 1184'lo)
b)  External Line Plant (ELP) Capacity (Ill) pairs)
Dar es Salaam  53590  68320  68320   80800 111440  139790
Others         77190  88010  94050 -116540 128070  174990
Total         130780 156330 162370  197390 2.16890  286350
c) Connected DELs
Yeatr ettd:
Dar es Salaam  30724  32490  36930   40915  50980   59930
Other          42287  45510  50070   59095 64020   73070
Total          73011  78000  8700n  100010 115000  13300n
d)  Exchange Fill (%)
Oar es Salaai     90     87      74      84    93       70
Other             86     63      61      i5; ZR
Total             87     71      66      73 *-
e)  Workiug DELs
Year-end
Dar es Salaam  19971  21443   26950  32732  37725   44348
Other          27487  30492   371052  47276  47375   54072
Total          47458  51935   64002  74007 85100   98420
f)   Percentage Lines
Working
Dar s S1a.laAm           66       74     Rr
Other             65     67       74     8 ( 6r
Total             65     67       74     80      85   .90
g)   Number of STD   6430   6430    6430   8390    8390   8390
Circuits
h)   International
E.xchange
Capacity         380  .o2n000    200(0    200n.'  tt V 4.  )



Annex 2-3
UQte 15 of 1V
2     ?
1.)  Aierage 1u1ber of
Faults/DEL wr yer
Katiojnal        2.7  .3.0   2.5        . a     1.5   1.0
Dar es Salams   2.7    3.0   2.0       1.5     1.0   1.0
J)   t of Faults cleared
(Jlatfonl)
Wlthiln 24
hours            27     50    60       65       TO    75
WIthin, 48
hours             43     60    70       75       80    es
Within 30
days              so.   80    65        90      95    97
k)  Dial Tone S
Within 3 sec.
-   Rational          75      75   8s       8e       90    95
Dar es Salaaa    75      80    85       90       90    90
1)   Call Completion Rates
tnternational-
Outgoing          68     60   6S        65      6S pC
rnternational -
rncoming          25     20    25       30      35    4f;
tational C STD)   30     35    40       4'      5 so
Nati-onaa
(Manual)          70     70    7S       fIt,    8,a
RIational Local   69     70    75       75       75    T
raocal - DSU      59    60    65        70      75    7
*-   Average Operator
Answer Time X within
10 seconds
International    70    80    65         90      95
Inland            50    50    55        of;     65    7f
1.2  Telex
a)   Exchange
Capacity        2350   4350  4350    4350    43'O  435(
b)   Subscriber Lines
Year-end         78fn  2300  t76f    3?nO   3900   VWfl.
Exchange
EFll(%)          76    53    63        Ts     9s
1.3  Staffins
a)   Staff per
1,000
DWLS - t.    76    76    70        58      '3    46
b)  Total
Telecoums
Staff     4660   5078  5271   548t    5692   594
-1/  Includes casual  loft ee and suport stff fot
telecoS operatiOS.



Annex ?-3
'Fa'e lf of 17
3
1,99     1991  1292   1993   1994   1995
1.4 Training Program
by Fuzictiou and
Wfeeks
a)   Telecowns
Engine.-
ring      4,455  5,964  6,332  5,790  6,010  6.390
Courses
b)   Telecomm Operation
Courses  .1,830  3,397  3,097  2,580  2.910  2,480
c)   fanageent
Courses     752    981  1.910   .      2,350  2.550
1.5  WI~,~n   nat
a)   Revenue in milliong US! D
Dar es Salaam
20.7 25.9   23.:   30.4   39.8   522. '
Others          22.4 28.1   25.A  32.f6  43.'2  v.6.4
Miscellaneous   0.3  1.4    1.       : ." 6 I  2.1    2.
Total          43.4  55.4   49.4   64.6   84.1  1il.:
b)   Rate of
Return on
net fixed
Assets         12.1   9.4    4. 3    9.1   Z1 . 2   40.4
c)   Current
ratio           1.4   1.5    2.8    3.n    ?.2:   3.
d)   International
inpayment/    1.0   1.0    1.!    1.2    1.4    1.'
outpayunt
e)   Dividend
payable as
X of profit      50    50      50    -5       s      5(
f)   AccOlutz
receivable      .25    25       2r     20    20      2
as % of bills
8)   Billing
delays          90    90       60     4!,     4      i
(days)
h)   Collection
Rate (Collectable
debts)           85    90       90    92      95    95
*  1 u;D = TSbs. 4*0/c



Annex '-3
"as-e 17 of 17
Attaclbmt 4
Definition of Terms and Abbreviations
AbbreLatiOM:
DEL  a    Direct Exchange Telephone Line
MCT  a    Ministry of Communications and Traport
STD  -    Subscriber Trunk Dialing
TPTC *    Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
Definition of Terms:
1.  Return on revalued not fixed assets is the ratio of the net
operating income before taxes plug depreciation 1/over tho
revalued assets and is as follows:
OR a INol + D + T)/RA
where ROR - return on revalued assets
o01 - net operating Income
- (operating revenue minus operating expense)
D   * depreciation
T   a corporate income tax
RA  a revalued net assets
a average exchange capacity X U882, 000 x weighted
average (by exchange capacity) exchange rate
for the year.
2.   Call completion rate is the percentage of successful call
attempts from subscriber terminal to subscriber terminal.
I/ Tax and depreciation are excluded from this formula on
the basis that management either has no control over
taxation or could arbitrarily alter depreciation rates.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PERMANC IMCAI
Tbe pformance targets oudined in Attache  4 of the Memorandum of Understanding are
subject to negotiation between the Ministy of Trnsport and Communications, TPTC's Board, and TPTC's
managemen.  Therefore as agrmed at negotaions, at a minimum, TPTC agrees to meet the performance
targes outlined below.
(a)   maintain quidity atio of nt less than one;
(b)   mainain an aual internional inpaymentoutpayment ratio of not less than one;
(c)   make dividend pamet of 25% of profit after tax. Such payment is subject to maintaining
fiancia viability of TPTC to meet its acrent financial obligations;
(d)   meet all its financ  obligatons including servicing its debts;
(e)   achieve a coiLecdon rate of at least 75% by December 31, 1993, 80% by December 31,
1994, 90% by September 30, 1995, and maintain the rate at that level threafter;
(f)   reduce acounts receivable in accordance with this timetable:
Deceb  31           1993         1994        1995      1996
Acounts Receivable              120         90          60           45
(Days in Billiog)
(g)   achieve the following:
(i)   Excge  C city   110,000        126,000      147,000     170,000
(ii)   Connected DELA    86,000       95,000      107,000     123,000
(Hii)  Woddrg DELs       71,000       81,000      93,000      111,000
(iv)  Faults cleared       65%          70%         75%          75%
wli 24 hours
(v)   Cal Completion Rate 1/ 30%        35%         40%         40%
(vi)  Staffper 100          60          S0           40          40
connected DEL
(O) produce and send to IDA on a quarterly basis an 80/20 analysis of revenues and receivables;
and
(i)   send to IDA by April 15 of each year, a copy of the Efficiency Audit referred to in section
13 of the MOU.
(j)   Generate a    te intnal fods to finance 100% of the local costs required for its annual
capia expenditu  aft  meeting its cumnt financial obligations;
(k)   Eam a reun on revalued fixed assets of not less than 15% (Atahment 7);
1_Incoming nenatona Answer Seizure Ratio (ASR) as recorded by foreign operator.



Pormula for Automatic Tariff Ad
The formula for caculating the uomatic sem-aual tariff nrs  to be made by TPIC
on April 30th and Oober 30th of each year to offet the effect of inflation and devalation shall be
determined by the following formula:
Tariff Increase = xA + yB - k
where       x =  semi-annual inflion rate since previous tariff increase as determied by the National
Burau of Statistics (GDP deflator at factor costs).
y  = semi           devaluation rate
A  = percepge of TPTC local costs (30%)
B  =  peretage of TPTC foreign costs (70%)
k =  the rate set to provide incentive for cost effiiency. Te rate wil be 2%. 3%
and 5%, for the first, second and third years, respectively.
x will be determined from a price index of TPTC inputs
y will be deterned from govemen published fiur
A and B will be detmined from TPTC's acounts due account taken of the impact of
effiiency improvements eized.



A.NNE2
I!al4 I of 2
TP1C ORGANCTON CEAR
OF DIREtrMSJ
r~~~~~~~~~, - ZOA .MANA'ER



__                       I~~~~~~~~~
I_      a
lii') ifI
Ii 
~~~it
~~  IEe                    . 
F  F  F            0~~~~~~
aF    >  S            g|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bI
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sr 



ANNE 2-6
PAGE 1
1.    Current Oganizion Stuctre.
2.    STATUS OF  1  ORGANZATON
The key posts of the organizaton structre have been completed.
Appointments of lower rnks is still continuing.
3.    Training of Staff:
YEAR      NO. OF COURSE        NO. OF TRAINEES        NO. OF WEEKS
PLANND CONDUCTED PLNND CONDUCTBD PLANNED  CONDUCTED
1990     325   1   28S        3763  1  2779        14651     11460
1991     247        221       234       2140       9200       7671
4.    TYEPS OPFCQUSES
4.1 TELECOMS ENGINEERING
4.1.1 SwiWhtch Section
(a)   Introduction to Tanzaia Telecoms Network
(b) Basic Crossbar (X-Bar)
(c)   Elements of Swiching
(d)   Strowger Adjustment
(e)   Basic Step by Stp (SXS) Switching
(f)   Basic Stored Programme Control (SPC)
(g)   E        Pac
(h) Advanced SXS Switching
(i)   C400 X-Bar Cruitry
0)   C23 X-Bar Circuitry
(k)   Introducion to Digital Switching
(1)   Digital Switching Sysm  Opeai  and Maintenance Part I and I.
(m) OKI PABX



ANNEX 2-6
PAGE 2
4.1.2       TRANSMISSION SECION
(a)   Line Transmission and Multiplex Theory
(b)   Transmission Measurements
(c) Introduction to PST 12L Telettra
(4)   Introduciton to SG GTE MP 25 MUX
(e)   Introduction to VFT S+DX Teletron
(f)   Rural Carrier System
(g)   Advanced SC GTE MP 25 MUX
(h)   Advanced SG GTE
(i)   Fujitsu Multiplex D Type Equipment
()   Advanced VFT S+DX Telecton
(k)   PCM L1E M5/NL 143
(O)   Introduction to TDM
(m)  Basic Telegraph
(n)   OKI Type 4500 TP Maintenance
(o)   SIEMENS TIOOO TP Maintenance
(p)   SIEMENS T1000 TP Maintenance
(q)   OKITEX 500 TP Maintenance
4.1.3 RADIO SECTION
(a)   Radio Communication Principles and Systems
(b)   Basic Radio Measurements
(c)   FM Multichannel Measurements and Analysis
(d)   VHF Radio Equipment
(e)   UHF Radio Equipment
(i)   Microwave Theory
(g)   Basic Microwave Equipment
(h)   Advanced Microwave Equipment
(i)   Digital Microwave Radio
4.1.4 EXENAL LINE PIANT SClO
(a)   External Plant Construction
(b)   Cable Jointing
(c)   Basic Cable Fault Location
(d)   Pre-Planning
(e)   Extenal Plant Planning II
(f)   Advance Overhead and Underground Testing I



ANNE Z
PAGE 3
4.1.5 SUBSCRtIER APPARATUS SC
(a)   Elementary Subscriber Apparatus
(b)   Subscriber Automatic Telephones
(c)   2/Type Switchboards
(d)   Subscdber Automatic Switchboards
(e)   Electrnc PMBX
(f)   Call Offices and Payphone
(g)   DIAVOX and Telephones
(h)   NEC Telephones
(i)   Subscriber Auto Telephones Inital
4.1.6 POWER PLANT SECIIN
(a)   Power Plant Testing and Fault Finding
0p)   Power Plant Routine Maintenance
(c)   Air conditioning Plant
(d)   lletonic Control Cubicle
(e)   Radio System Power Supply
(f)   Elcronic Power Supply
(g)   Solar Power Supply
4.1.7 LECOMS TECEINOLOGY SEN
(a)   DC Electronics
(b)   AC Electrnics
(c)   Semiconductor Devices
(d)   Electonics Circuits
(e)   Digital Electronics
(f)   Microprocessors
(g)   Programming
(h)   Microcomputers Technology
4.2   TELECOMS OPERATIONS
4.2.1 T .TRAFFIC AND OPERATIONS SECIIN
(a) Telecommunications Controller Course
4.2.2    PHONE OPERATIONS SE
(a)   Minor Manual Exchange Opera (New entrants)
(b) Minor Manual Exchange Operator Refresher
(c)   Group Centre Exchange Operator (New Entrants)
(d)   Group Centre Exchange (Upgrade)



ANNEX 2
PAGE 4
(e)   Grop Centre Exchange Refeher
(f)   Enquiry Opetor
(g)   Exchange Clerical Duties
(h)   Telephone Supervion I
(i)   Telephone Supernsion 11
0)   Telephone Exchange Administaon
(k) Minor Manual Exchange Operator Incharge
(1)   Telephone Exchange Management
(m)  PBX Operator
4.2.3 TELEGRAPH OPERATION SECIION
(a)   Telegraph Assistant
(b)   Telegraph Assistant Reiesher
(c)   Telegraphist Refresher
(d)   Telegraphist Refersher
(e)   Telegraph Supervision
(f)   Telegraph Supervion Refersber
(g)   Telegraph Adminisrion
(h)   Telegraph Office Manaement
(i)   Telegraph Clerical and Enquis
5j)    * Public Telex OpeAtor
NB: * Mainly for customers
4.2.4 TEECOWS SALS AND MARETI                 SECTIONS
(a)   Basic Sales
(b)   Intermediate Sales
(c)   Sales Refresher
(d)   Advanced Sales
(e)   Advise Note (A.N.) Surrey & Sales Stategy
(f)   Sales Office Aministration
(g)   Sales Supervision Rdfesher
(h)   Tariff and Traffic Accounting
4.3   POSTAL SERVICES
4.3.1 Postal Managemt Section
(a)   Postal Administration I
(b)   Postal Adminision II
(c)   Postal Mangment
(d)   Postal Planning and Development
(e)   Postal Statistics



PAGE 5
(t)   Head Postmaster's Course
(g) Postal Controllers
4.3.2 CQTM= SEICESS N
(a)   Public Counter Duties
(b)   Cash Accounts
(c)   Geneal Correspondance and Writing Work
(d) Postmaster's Responsibility
4.3.3 MAIL OQ MATIONSBIIQN
(a)   Postal Assistant New Entrants
(b)   Postal Officer New Entrants
(c)   Internadonal Mails Operations and Accounting
(d) Expedited Mail Services (EMS)
4.4   MANAGEMENT STUDIES
4.4.1  _AL MANA1GES_NT
(a)   Basic Supvry Management
(b)   Instructors' course
(c) Office Management
(d)   General Clerical
(e)   Typist Refresher Training
4.4.2 COMUTER USER TRAINING SECTION
(a)   Introduction to PC
(b)   Wordpocssing Basic
(c)   Wordprocsing Advanced
(d)   Spread Sheet Progamming Basic
(e)   Spread Sheet Progamming Advanced
(f)   Datbase Programme - Basic
(g)   Database Progamme - Advanced
(h)   Data Entry Basic on the VS 5
(i)    Graphic Basic



PAGE 6
EA_LUMAYAUA= AT STrAFF COLLEGE
(1)     Training Workshop and Laboratory
0ii)    Class Rooms, Libraries and Boarding facilities
(iii)    Administative Building
(iv)    Electricity
(v)     Tap Watr
(vi)    Telephone
(vii)    Fire-fighfting appliances
(viii)    Medical care (Treatments done at Corporation's
Dispensary)
(ix)     Games and sports
staff                      _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
YEAR   TEECOMNS  POSTAL   OTHERS TOTAL STAFF
1990         4860         2073          981          7914
1991         4860         2108         1043          8011



TANZANA POSTS AND TEECOMWAUNICATIONS CORPOMTION                                       Annex 3-1i
TELOMNIATIONS8 UCTURINPROjECT                                                     Page 1
knwtmet Progam (1991- 1996) In Mlns US DO"ars
Exch. rate      300.00
T.SH8 (MI WON)                      L US$ (MI WON)
1991-1995                           1991-1995
Local      Foreign      ToW         Local      Foreign     Total
A.  TELEPHONE EXCHANGES
A.1  Local Exchanges                550.90    7,299.37     7,850.27       1.84      24.33      28.17
A.2  Transit Exchanges               60.00      630.00      690.00        0.20       2.10       2.30
A.3  Spare Parts                      0.00      300.00      300.00        0.00       1.00       1.00
B.  LOCAL CABLE NETWORK
9.1 ELP                           1,778.40    16,005.60    17,784.00     5.93       53.35      59.28
5.2 Spare Parts                      0.00       600.00      600.00       0.00        2.00       2.00
C. TRANSMISSiON
C.1 OptW Fibre                      162.00      450.00      612.00        0.54       1.50       2.04
C.2 Radio Systems                 2,439.00    13,581.00    16,020.00      8.13      45.27      53.40
C.3 Upgrade Std. A Earth              0.00      150.00      150.00        0.00       0.50       0.50
C.4 Spares                            0.00      420.00      420.00        0.00       1.40       1.40
D. TELEPHONE& TE           S          0.00      684.00      684.00        0.00       2.28       2.28
E POWER&AfC                         150.00     1,050.00    1,200.00      0Q50        350        4.00
F. BULD ING                         900.00        0.00      900.00        3.00       0.00       3.00
G. VEHICLES                          30.00      450.00      480.00        0.10       1.50       1.60
H. COMPUTERS                         0.00     1,716.00     1,716.00      0.00        5.72       5.72
LA CONSULTANCY - TO TPTC            798.00    4,206.00     5,004.00       2.66      14.02      16.68
LB CONSULTANCY - TO MOC              30.00      225.00      255.00        0.10       0.75       0.85
J.A TRAINNG-TOTPT                   510.00      840.00     1,350.00       1.70       2.80       4.50
J.B TRAiG   -TO iMOC                  0.00       60.00       60.00        0.00       0.20       0.20
MISC & ANCLUARY EQUIPMEN           510.00      840.00     1,350.00       1.70       2.80       4.50
SABE    T                     7,918.30   4*,506.97    5 w7           2639)      166.02     191.42
Physical Contingency            395.91     2,475.35    2,871.26       1.32       &25         9.57
Prie Contingency                791.83     4,950.70    5,742.53       2.64      16.50       19.14
Ws.: ..;.            6.....2.. t-                .W                  . .    :



Annex 3-1
Page 2
TPTC - TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Foreign component In mflions of USS
IDA     ADB      EEC     SIDA    DANIDA  JICA       TOTAL
A.SWITCHING          5.79    12.02     3.82     5.83                     27.46
B.EXT.LINE PLANT     11.6   16.64      7.13    11.04     6.91    1.91    55.33
C.TRANSMISSION       30.2   10.65        4      3.92                     48.67
D.TERMINALS             2                                0.26             2.28
E.POWER&AIRCOND.      3.5                                                  3.5
F.BUILDINGS                                                                 0
G.VEHICLES              1      0.5                                         1.5
H.COMPUTERS          3.32                        2.4                      6.72
L.CONSULTANCY        3.55                      11.22                     14.77
a) TPTC              2.8
b) MOC              0.75
J.TRAINING            1.1                        1.9                         3
a) TPTC              0.9
b) MOC               0.2
KMISCELLANEOUS        2.8                                                  2.
TOTAL               64.76    39.91    14.95    36.31     7.19    1.91   165.03
CONTING. 15%        9.714   5.98665  2.2425   5.4465   1.0786   0.2865  24.7545
GRAND TOTAL        74.474  45.86   17.1925  41.75    8.265   2.1965 189.7845



TPTC - TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM                 Annex 31
P-age 3
IDA FUNDING (MILUONS OF U8S)
Lo1a    Forein   Total
A.SWITCHING                             0.36     5.79     6.16
Arusha                                  0.08     1.06     1.14
Morogoro                                0.02     0.27    0.29
Zanzib                                  0.08     1.06     1.14
Chake Chake                             0.03      0.4    0.43
Wete                                    0.02     0.27     0.29
Mkoani                                  0.01    0.13     0.14
Smalt excnes                            0.06      0.8    0.86
Rural exchaes 15                        0.06      0.8    0.86
Spare pafts for exdstexche                         1        1
B.E)CTERNA. UNE PLANT                   1.06    11.5    12.56
Pugu Road 20% (Japan 80%)              0.05     0.47     0.62
Wagenl                                  0.17     1.51    1.68
Tabata (already compbeed)
Arusha                                  0.11     1.01    1.12
Morogoro                               0.11     0.97     1.06
ZanzIar                                 0.32     2.84    3.16
Rural locations                         0.3      2.7        3
Spare parts                                        2        2
C.TRANSMISSION                          5.9    30.2    36.1
Earth SttIon                                     0.5      0.5
OSM-Dodona 14OMb/s spurs                  2      9.6    11.6
Mosh-Arusha 140 Mb/s +spurs             0.6        3      3.6
Tanga-Moshl 140 MbIs .spurs             1.1      5.7      6.8
DSM-Zanzlbar-Pemba-Tanga 140 bbs        1.2        6      72
Smal radlo 15 pc (Netherl)                1        4        5
Spare parts for elsttransm.                       1.4     1.4
D.TERMINALS (telophones.telprinters)               2        2
E.POWER AND AIRCONDmONING               0.5      3.5        4
F.BUILDINGS                               3                 3
G.VEHICLES                               0.1       1      1.1
H.COMPUTERS (Corporate)                         3.32     3.32
I.a) CONSULTANCY TO TPTC                0.3      2.8      3.1
PPF                                    0.1     0.88     0.98
Corp. PlanningStdies                   0.1     0.42     0.52
Finance                                0.1      1.5      1.6
I.b) CONSULTANCY TO MOO                 0.1     0.75   - 0.85
J.a) TRAINING TO TPTC                   0.7      0.9      1.6
J.b) TRAINING TO MOC                             0.2      0.2
KMISCELLANEOUS (Post                    1.7      2.8      4.5
IDA TOTAL                              13.72    64.76    78.48
TO TA L ind. contngen5es 15%          15.778   74.474   90.252



Annex 3-1
TPTC - TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM Page 4
ADS FUNDING (MILLIONS OF US$)
Local    Foreign  Total
A.SWITCHING                              0.95    12.02    12.97
DSM Tertiary Switch                       0.2      2.1      2.3
Central                                   0.2     2.65     2.85
Kariakoo                                 0.12     1.53     1.65
Upanga                                   0.07     0.95     1.02
Magomeni                                 0.06     0.81     0.87
Mwanza                                   0.12     1.59     1.71
Musoma                                   0.04     0.53     0.57
Dodoma                                   0.12     1.59     1.71
Shinyanga                                0.02     0.27     0.29
B.EXTERNAL LINE PLANT                    1.88    16.84-   18.72
Central                                   0.4      3.6        4
Kariakoo                                 0.29     2.59     2.88
Upanga                                   0.18     1.58     1.76
Magomeni                                 0.16      1.4     1.56
Mwanza                                   0.31     2.81     3.12
Musoma                                   0.11     1.01     1.12
Dodoma                                   0.38     3.42      3.8
Shinyanga                                0.05     0.43     0.48
C. TRANSMISSION                          1.37    10.55    11.92
DSM-Upanga        FO 140M                0.09     0.25     0.34
DSM-Kariakoo      FO 140M                0.09     0.25     0.34
DSM-Magomeni      FO 140M                0.09     0.25     0.34
'Dodoma-Mwanza 140 1 + spur Shinyanga      1.1      9.8     10.9
Extelcoms-Tel.house fibre cable provided by BT 10/92
D.TERMINALS                                                   0
E.POWER AND AIRCONDITIONING                                   0
To be included in switching supply.
F. BUILDINGS                                                  0
TPTC provides for all locations (refer IDA)
G.VEH1ICLES                                        0.5      0.5
H. COMPUTERS                                                  0
I . CONSuLTANCY                                               0
J . TRAINING                                                  0
K . MISCELLANEOUS                                             0
ADS TOTAL                                 4.2    39.91    44.11
T 0 T A L incl. contingencies 15      * 4.83  45.8965  50.7265



TPTC - TELECOMMUNIC.TIoNS RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM      Annex 3-1
EEC FUNDING (MILLIONS OF US$)
Local   Foreign Total
A.SWITCHING                            0.28    3.82       4.1
Iringa                                  0.1    1.32    1.42
Mbeya                                  0.09    1.19    1.28
Songea                                 0.04    0.53    0.57
Suubawanga                             0.02    0.32    0.34
Tukuyu                                 0.01    0.19       0.2
Njombe                                 0.02    0.27    0.29
B.EXTERNAL LINE PLANT                  0.79    7.13    7.92
Mbeya                                  0.26      2.3    2.56
Iringa                                 0.28    2.52       2.8
Songea                                 0.08    0.72       0.8
Sumbawanga                             0.06    0.58    0.64
Tukuyu                                 0.04    0.36       0.4
Njombe                                 0.05    0.43    0.48
lafinga                                0.02    0.22    0.24
C-*TRANSMISSION                         0.5        4      4.5
Dodoma-Iringa-Mbeya 34M
Iringa-Njombe  34M1
D.TERMINALS                                                 0
E.POwER AND AIRCONDITIONING                                 0
F.BUILDINGS                                                 0
G.VEHICLES                                                  0
H. COMPUTERS                                                0
I.CONSULTANCY                                               0
J.TRAINING                                                  0
K.MISCELLANEOUS                                             0
-------_---_____-----------------__------------------------__
EEC TOTAL                              1.57   14.95    16.52
T 0 T A L with contingencies 15 *    1.8055  17.1925   18.998
NOTE: containers, power and airconditioning included
in switching
Sonega and Sumbuwanga served by existing analog
radio links and Tukuyu by a digital one
Closing of tenders Nov. 6, 1992
Implementation as a turn-key project, EEC will also
provide consultants to supervise the implementation.



TPTC - TELECOMO(WICATIONS MESTRUCTUR=G PORAM           Annex 3-1
SIDA FUNDING (XILLIONS OF USS)       Lal
Local    Foreign  Total
A.SWITCINC                               o0.44     5.83      6.27
Ubungo                                    0.08     1.06      1.14
Kurasini                                  0.08     1.06      1.14
Mbezi+Wazo+Kunduci                        0.1      1.32      1.42
Kimara                                    0.02     0.27      0.29
Kijitonyama                                0.1     1.32      1.42
Kibaha                                    0.02     0.27      0.29
Mbagala                                   0.04     0.53      0.57
B.EXTEENAL LINE PLANT                     1.24    11.04    12.28
Ubungo                                    0.23     2.05      2.28
Kurasini                                  0.21     1.87      2.08
Mbezi                                     0.28     2.52       2.8
Kimara                                    0.06      0.5      0.56
Kijitonyama                               0.31     2.77      3.08
Kibaha                                    0.04     0.32      0.36
Mbagala                                   0.11      1.01     1.12
C.TRANSKISSION                               1     3.92      4.92
DSM-Kijitonyama   FO 140N                 0.09     0.25      0.34
Magomeni-UbungO   FO 140K                 0.09      0.25     0.34
Kijitonyau-Mbezi FO 140K                  0.09     0.25      0.34
Pugu Road-Kurasini 34M                    0.08     0.32       0.4
PUgu Road-Mbagala 34K                     0.08     0.32       0.4
Pugu Road-Kimara 140M                     0.08      0.4      0.48
Wazo Hill-Kimara 140M                     0.08      0.4      0.48
Wazo Hill-Kbezi  140K                     0.08      0.4      0.48
Wazo Hill-Wazo  8 K                       0.08     0.25      0.33
Wazo Hill-Kunduchi 34K                    0.08     0.32       0.4
Kimara-Ubungo  140M                       0.08      0.4      0.48
DSM-Kibaha   34K                          0.09     0.36      0.45
D . TERBaNALS                                                   0
* POWER AND AXRCONDITIONING                                    0
F. BUILDINGS                                                    0
G.VEHICLES                                                      0
H.COMPUTERS                                          2.4      2.4
I.CONSULTANCY                             2.36    11.22    13.58
Requlatory issues (KCT)                             0.17     0.17
Corporate Planning                        0.11       1.9     2.01
Project Management Unit                    1.2       5.2      6.4
Human Reuource/Training                      1       3.7      4.7
Supplies                                  0.05      0.25      0.3
J.TRAINING (short term)                       1      1.9       2.9
K.KISCELLANOUS 
SIDA TOTAL                                6.04    36.31    42.35
T 0 T A L  incl. contingencies 15*       6.946  41.7565  48.7025



Annex 3-1
Page 7
TPTC - TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESTRUCTURING PROGRAX
DANIDA FUNDING (MILIONS OF US$)
Local   Foreign  Total
A. SWITCHING                                              0
.EXTERNAL LINE PLANT                  0.77     6.91    7.68
Tanga                                 0.26    2.38    2.64
moshi                                 0.34    3.02     3.36
Chake Chake                           0.08    0.76    0.84
Wete                                  0.06      0.5    0.56
Mkoani                                0.03    0.25    0.28
C. TRANSMISSION                                           0
D.TERMINALS Payphones                          0.28    0.28
E. POWER AND AIRCONDITIONING                              0
F. BUILDINGS                                              0
G . VEHICLES                                              0
H COMPUTERS                                               0
I . CONSULTANCY                                           0
J.TRAINING                                                0
K * MISCELLANSOUS                                         0
DANIDA TOTAL                          0.77    7.19    7.96
JAPANt FUNDING (MILLIONS OF US$)
B.ELP Pugu Road 80% (IDA 20%)         0.21     1.91    2.12
T 0 T A L inml. contingencies 15%   0.2415  2.1965   2.438



Annex 3-2
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION                              Page 1
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PRESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Detaied Project DescriptIon
A. EXCHANGES
A.1. DAR-ES-SALAAM
Additional        FUNDING (MILLIONS US$)
istIn      Replacement    Capacity    -P ------   LEG
EXCHANGE         Capacity       CapacIty    1997          LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL  DONORS
1. National Transit      2,000        6,000          6,000     0.20     2.10      2.30   ADB
2. Central               22,000       10,000        30,000     0.20      2.65     2.85   ADB
3. Ubungo                 3,000        4.000         6,000               1.06     1.14   SIDA
4. Karlakoo                  0         5,760         5,760     0.12      1.53     1.64   ADS
5. Upanga                    0         3,584         3,584     0.07      0.95     1.02   ADB
6. Magomenl                  0         3.072         3,072     0.06      0.81     0.88   ADB
7. Kurasinl              2,000        4,000          4.000     0.08      1.06     1.14   SIDA
8. Mbezl                   800         5,000         5,000      0.10     1.33     1.43   SIDA
9. Klmara                    0         1,000          1,000     0.02     0.27     0.29   SIDA
10. Kijltonyama           5,000        5,000         10,000     0.10      1.33     1.43   SIDA
11. Kibaha *-               600         1,000         1,000     0.02     0.27      0.29   SIDA
12. Mbagala                   0        2,000          2,000     0.04     0.53      0.57   SIDA
TOTAL TRUNKS            2,000        6,000          6,000     0.20     2.10     2.30
TOTAL UNES             33,400       44,416         71,416     0.89    11.77    12.66
SUB TOTAL                                                     1.09    13.87    14.96
) Includes RSS In Wazo (500) and Kunduchl (1000).
* ) Kibaha belongs to COAST region, but here it Is Included In DSM



Annx 3-2
TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION                                       Page 2
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
A.2  OTHER REGIONS (SWITCHING)
CAPACITY      FUNDING (MAI   S US$)
EXISTING   (ADDTIONAL& CAPACIT ---            -------- --------  Pledging
EXCHANGE         REGION           CAPACITY   REPLACEMENT) 1997        LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL    Donors
1. Arusha        Arusha                5,000          4,000    7,000     0.08      1.06     1.14    IDA
2. Mwanza        Mwama                  5,0000        6000    8,600      0.12      1.59     1.71    ADS
3. Irlnga        Iringa                 1,000         5,000    5.000     0.10      1.33     1.43    EEC
4. Mbeya         Mbeya                  2,300         4,500    6.300      0.09     1.19     1.28    EEC
S. Songea        Ruvuma                 1.000         2,000    2000       0.04     0.6      0.57    EEC
6. Sumbawanga    Rukwa                   300           1,200    1,200     0.02     0.32     0.34    EEC
7. Tukuyu        Mbeya                   200            700      700      0.01     0.19     0.20    EEC
8. NJombe        Irlnga                  500          1,000    1.000      0.02     0.27     0.29    EEC
9. Musoma        Mara                   1,000         2,000    2,000      0.04     0.53     0.57    ADB
10. Dodoma       Dodoma                4.000          6,000    9.000     0.12      1.59     1.71    ADS
11. Shinyanga    Shinyanga              1,400         1,000    2,400     0.02      0.27     0.29    ADB
12. Morogoro     Morogoro              3,000          1,000    4.000     002       0.27     0.29    IDA
13. Zanzibar     Zanzibar              4,000          4,000    8,000     0.08      1.06     1.14    IDA
14. Chake Chake    Pemba               1,000          3,000    3,000     0.06     0.80      0.86    IDA
15. SMALL CAPACIrY EXCHANGES                          3,000    3,000     0.06      0.80     0.86    IDA
5 UNITS (500- 100L)
16. RURAL EXCHANGES 15 UNITS                          3,000    3,000     0.06      0.80     0.86    IDA
(100- 300L)
TOTAL                               29,700         47,400   66,200     0.95    12.56    13.51
A.3 SPARES
Spare parts for exIsting exchanges                                      0.00     1.00     1.00    IDA
* Includes RSS In Wete (1000) and Mkoani (S00)



TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATiONS CORPORATION                                        Annex 3-2
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESTRUCTUIPNG PROGRAM                                               Page 3
B. LOCAL CABLE NETWORK (EXTERNAL UNE PLANT - ELP)
8.1  EXPANSION OF LOCAL CABLE NETWORK(ELP)
Existing     MDF Paira   MOF Pair  FUNDING (MILLIONS US$)
LOCATION         REGION        MOF Pair    (Additlona    Capacity     -       ---              Pledging
Capacity   & Replacement)   1997    LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL    Donors
1. Pugu Road-1   Dar-es-Salaam         2,560           5300     7860     0.21      1.91     2.12    JICA
2. Pugu Road-2   Dar-es-Salaam        640.00           1300     1940      0.05     0.47     0.52    IDA
3. Wageni        Dar-es-Salasm         2.475          4.200    4.200      0.17     1.51     1.68    IDA
4. Moshi         Klllmanjaro           2,800          8,400    9,800      0.34     3.02     3.36   DANIDA
5. Tanga         Tanga                 3,500          6,600   10,100      0.26     2.38     2.64   DANIDA
6. Central       Dar-s-Salaam         29,600         10,000   39.600      0.40     3.60     4.00    ADS
7. Ubungo        Dar-es-Saaam          2,700          6,700    8,400      0.23     2.05     2.28    SIDA
8. Kariakoo      Dar-es-Salaam             0          7,200    7,200      0.29     2.59     2.88    ADB
9. Upanga        Dar-es-Sa-aam            0           4,400    4,400      0.18     1.58     1.76    ADB
10. Magomeni    Dar-es-Salaam              0          3,900    3,900      0.16     1.40      1.56    ADB
11. Kurasinl     Dar-es-Salaam          1.300         5,200    5,600      0.21     1.87     2.08    SIDA
12. Mbezi        Dar-es-Saiaam             0          7,000    7,000      0.28     2.o2     2.80    SIDA
13. Kimara       Dar-es-Saiaam             0           1,400    1,400     0.06     0.50     0.56    SIDA
14. Kljitonyama    Dar-es-Saiaam       6,360          7,700   14,000      0.31     2.77     3.08    SIDA
15. Arusha       Arusha                7,240          2,800    9,800      0.11     1.01     1.12    IDA
16. Mbeya        Mbeya                 2,400          6,400    8,800      0.26     2.30     2.56    EEC
17. Mwanza       Mwanza                4,240          7,800   12,000      0.31     2.81     3.12    ADB
18. Irlnga       Irlnga                  600          7,000    7,000      0.28     2.52     2.80    EEC
19. Songea       Ruvuma                2,000          2,000    2,800      0.08     0.72     0.80    EEC
20. Sumbawanga  Rukwa                    325           1,600    1,600     0.06     0.58     0.64    EEC
21. Tukuyu       Mbeya                   130           1,000    1,000     0.04     0.36     0.40    EEC
22. Njombe       Irlnga                  550           1,200    1,200     0.05     0.43      0.48    EEC
23. Musoma       Mara                    675           2.800    2,800     0.11     1.01      1.12    ADB
24. Dodoma       Dodoma                 4,800          9,500   12,600     0.38     3.42      3.80    ADS
25. Morogoro     Morogoro               2,900          2.700    5,600     0.11     0.97      1.08    IDA
26. Shinyanga    Shinyanga              3,200          1,200    3,400     0.05     0.43      0.48    ADB
27. Zanzibar     Zanzibar               4,600          7,900   11,200     0.32     2.84      3.16    IDA
28. Chake Chak*  Pemba                  2,800          4,200    4,200     0.17     1.51      1.68   DANIDA
29. Kibaha       Dar-Es-Salaam           620            900    1,400      0.04     0.32      0.36    SIDA
30. Mafinga      Iringa                    0            600      600      0.02     0.22      0.24    EEC
31. Mbagala      Dar-Es-Salaam             0           2800     2800      0.11     1.01      1.12    SIDA
32. Rural Areas                                        7,500    7,500     0.30     2.70      3.00    IDA
TOTAL                                89,015        148,200  221,700     5.93    53.35    59.28
B.2 SPARES
Procurement of spare parts for dsting cable network                     0.00      2.00     2.00    IDA
Items I to 5 represent MDF pairs needed to utilize the exiting switching capacity.



TANZANIA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION                                       Annex 3-2
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESTRUCTURiNG PROGRAM                                              Page 4
C. TRANSMISSION                                                 FUNDING (Millorns US$)            Pledging
-______------- --------  Donors
C.1 OPTCAL FIBER CABLE SYSTEMS                                         LOCAL  FOREGN  TOTAL
1. DSM Central - Upanga 3km                140 Mb/s                    0.09     0.25     0.34    ADB
2. DSM Central - Karlakoo 2km              140 Mb/s                    0.09     0.25     0.34    ADB
3. OSM Central - Magomenl 4km              140 Mbhs                    0.09      i.25    0.34    ADB
4. DSM Central - Kijltonyama 11 km         140 Mb/s                    0.09     0.25     0.34    SIDA
S. KiJitonyama-Mbezi                       140 Mb/s                    0.09     0.25     0.34  SIDA
S. Maoneni-Ubungo                          140 Mb/s                    0.09     0.25     0.34  SIDA
TOTALS       0.54     1.50     2.04
C.2 RADIO SYSTEM
1. Dodoma-Mwanza 140Mb/s + spurs                                       1.10     9.80    10.90    ADS
2. DSM-Dodoma 140Mb/s * spurs                                          2.00     9.60    11.60    IDA
3. Tanga-Moshl 140Mb/s + spurs                                         1.10     5.70     6.80    IDA
4. Moshi-Arusha 14OMb/s                                                0.60     3.00     3.60    IDA
5. DSM-Zanzibar-Tanga 140Mb/s                                          1.00     6.00     7.00    IDA
6. OSM MULTi EXCHANGE AREA
a) Mbezi - Wazo Hill                      140 Mb/s                     0.08     0.40     0.48    SIDA
b) Wazo Hill - Wazo                        8 Mb/s                      0.08     0.25     0.33    SIDA
c) Wazo Hill Kunduchl                      34 Mb/s                     0.08     0.32     0.40    SIDA
d) Wazo Hill - Kimara                      140 Mb/s                    0.08     0.40     0.48    SIDA
e) Kimara - Pugu Road                      140 Mb/s                    0.08     0.40     0.48    SIDA
1) Ubungo - Kimara                        140 Mbits                    0.08     0.40     0.48    SIDA
g) Pugu Road - Kurasini                    34 Mb/s                     0.08     0.32     0.40    SIDA
h) Pugu Road - Mbagala                     34 Mb/s                     0.08     0.32     0.40    SIDA
7. Kbaha-DSM 34Mb/s                                                    0.09     0.36     0.45    SIDA
8 Dodoma-lringa-Mbeya 34Mb/s                                           0.50     4.00     4.50    EEC
9. 15 Small Capacity Systems 2/8 Mb/s                                  1.10     4.00     5.10    IDA
TOTALS       8.13    45.27    53.40
C.3 UPGRADE STANDARD "A" EARH STATION                                     0.00     0.50     0.50    IDA
C.4 SPARE PARTS FOR EXISTING TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS                         0.00     1.40     1.40    IDA
D. TELEPHONE AND TELEX TERMINALS
1. Procurement of20,000 Telephones                                     0.00     0.50     0.50    IDA
2. Procurement of500 Payphones                                         0.00     0.28     0.28   DANIDA
3. Procurement of 200 Teleprinters and 500 fax machines                0.00     1.00     1.00    IDA
4. Spare parts for subscriber apparatus and payphones                  0.00     0.50     0.50    IDA
TOTALS       0.00     2.28     2.28
E. POWER AND AIRCONOMONING EQUIPMENT
Power supply and air-conditloning equipment for
Switching and Transmission Systems                                     0.50     3.50     4.00    IDA
F. BUILDINGS
Buildings for Switching and Transmission Systems                      3.00     0.00      3.00    TPTC
G. VEHICLES                                                               0.10     1.50     1.60  IDAIADS



Annex 3-2
PageS
H. COMPUTERS                                                             0.00    5.72      6.72  IDA/SIDA
l.A CONSULTANCY - TO TPTC                        Manmonths
1. PPF Consultants                                    40              010      0.88     0.98    IDA
2. Studies                                            2S              0.10     0.42     0.52    IDA
3. Finance                                           108              0.10     1.50     1.60    IDA
4. Corporate Planning                                168              0.11     2.07     2.18    SIDA
5. Project Management Unltleecoms                    372              1.20     5.20     640    SIDA
6. Human Resource/TraIning                           264              1.00     3.70     4.70    8iDA
7. Supplies                                           18              0.05     0.25     0.30    SIDA
TOTALS              99S               2.66    14.02    16.68
I.B CONSULTANCY- TO MOC: Eff. AudiURegulatory           44               0.10     0.75     0.85
J. TRAINING
1. LongTerm coursesO7Months)                         300              0.70     0.90     1.60    IDA
2. Shorttermcourses(TiMonths)                        160              1.00     1.90     2.90    SIDA
8, To MOC                                             1S              0.00     0.20     0.20    IDA
TOTALS              460               1.70     3.00     4.70
K MISCELLANEOUS
Mlsculiansou and Ancillary Equipment                                  1.70     2.80     4.50    IDA
L GRAND TOTAL FOR THE PROGRAMS (A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H+l.J.+I                  26.39   165.02   191.42



05g~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~ ~~~zf                  2    fti.                              C t; &31  fl j5 '1", f 35 '
t~~~~~~~~a t  an '                                    ...........  .,Cb""   " .................  
4  '!  2;S w  14"ob  ""   " ""  "."  .    M~~~~~~~~Cw    1is 
t   !   8  i ""   g   "  *"0     X   w                 ~~      ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0 n0Ca
as~~~~~~~t                                          OT                  SL 0ls  tw        8 
~~~~~~ - -- -- - - -- -- -- -- -- -  - - - - - - - - - -- - ---- - -- -- -
2                                                                             V |   g   |      "   a   P   N   n   |  |   N   "   t   "   |    @;   g  D4 C
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~  ~    0  C a                                    -
tA                                     T~~~~~~~~~~~~0 0) I2.  A)%, 4f  000' go   go
I s- - - -  -  ---   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
M- -.3            3                 -- --- - - - - - - - - - - - ---4-4-4 - 4- - 4-- -   - - - - - - - - - - -
41-   C a-
__   _ _  _   _   _   _   _    _   _    _   _    _   _   _    _   _    _   _
:-    -  -    --        --         -   --         - *-. 8 **..- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
_ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Annex 3-2
Page 7
fT_w lm,.d.|                    TOW
P mam                              75        180       45      300
_          _i ew1                  35         35                70
cI I II                           120    280    70   470
Mu                                40         160       70      270
IaghuebM                         200        200        100     5
gos9       90       90      270
Supplim                          X20         20        20       60
Amp.s 50                                     120       30      200
Ira Ce_sgs o10                              200       200      460
comp                                        3100              31o0
1SAIh                             710       4385       6       5
Hyla en*NamY                       43        263        38     343
PA" C      _amugay                 64    395    56   5
LT;w                              817       SM3        719      57
D~06-M9 NisimTtm



Annex 3-2
Page 8
TANZANIA - TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
POSTAL REQUIREMENTS
ITEM                           QUANTITY  PRICE
1. TRAINING (Split of P&T)                                  356,000
2. CONSULTANCY (Split of P&T)                               660,000
. EQUIPMENT
3.1 PC Computers & Software                           20    80,000
3.2 Compur System Hardware & Softwae                        450,000
3.3 Key Blanks                                    200,000   450,000
3.4 Franidng Machines                                 40    60,000
3.5 PABX                                              21   210,000
3.6 NEW SERVICES (Fax, Copy, Telex)                   S0   150,000
4. TRANSPORT
4.1 Motor Cycles (Mail Delivery)                      20    40,000
4.2 Vehicles (Mail Delivery)                          21   315,000
5. SPARE PARTS                                               40,000
TOTAL - Foreign Exchange                          2,800,000



ANNEXa 3-3
PROJECT FINANaNIN PLAN
(IUSD millons)
Source    Lor    Foreign  IRW
ADB              45.9    45.9
DANIDA            8.3     8.3
EEC              17.2    17.2
IDA              74.4    74.4
JICA              2.2     2.2
SIDA             41.7    41.7
TPTC      30.4           30.4
Total     MA 18.7  g220.1



AtME 3-4-
TANZANh POEM AND nLEOM
BURWMS m RESIRUClllUNG ROEI
Sdbdl of Dsbureents
IBRD                                 Cumuative               Bank's Profiles
FY/Semester       Disbursement       Through           For all sectors    Telecom Sector
Ending            in Semester 1/     Semester          in West Africa    World Wide
FY93
Dec. 31, 1992         0.4              0.4                 0.0                 0.0
June 30, 1993         0.4              0.8                 0.0                 0.0
FY94
Dec. 31, 1993         0.8              0.8                 0.8                 0.8
June 30, 1994         1.2              2.0                 3.5                 2.0
FY95
Dec. 31, 1994         3.7              5.7                 8.1                 5.0
June 30, 1995         6.2             11.9                13.1                10.0
FY96
Dec. 31, 1995         7.6             19.5                19.3                16.2
June 30, 1996         8.4             27.9                25.9                23.1
FY97
Dec. 31, 1996         9.5             37.4                32.3                30.9
June 30, 1997         9.9             47.3                39.0                39.0
FY98
Dec. 31, 1997         7.5             54.8                45.1                45.2
June 30, 1998        10.6             65.4                51.4                54.0
EY99
Dec. 31, 1998         3.3             68.7                56.7                56.8
June 30, 1999         5.7             74.4                60.8                61.9
FY2000
Dec. 31, 1999         0.0             74.4                65.1                65.3
June 30, 2000         0.0             74.4                65.8                68.8
FY2001
Dec. 31, 2000         0.0             74.4                70.5                69.9
June 30, 2001         0.0             74.4                72.8                72.7
FY2001
Dec. 31, 2001         0.9             74.4                73.6*               73.6
* Difference between Telecom III disbursements and West Afiica and Telecom Sector disbursements reflect a
$US 0.8 for the PPF.
i/ Specific measures are being taken in the project to speed the disbursement cycle.



AN33 3-5
Page 1 of 3
1 1993      1994  1 1995  1 1996  t 1997
E15C                I                  I t          
Switchling     T------C      -- - ------  -O
Transmission   T      C ----I --- - 0
ELY  T-  ---C - I- I--          -    -    -      --        --
ADB Phase I                .
Switching          |T--C---_S--e
Transmission        IT----  --------- ---0
ELP                IT ---- C---I ----- _____-O
ILl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
II
ADB Phase SI         I                 I        I        I         i
TSransm=sson       I   T-- -C----- I- ----Do
lSP                     T----C-------- -------------0
Transmission
SIDA Phase I 
switching          I
Transmission
ZLP                       T T----C-     -I ----- ---
SID  Phase I        I                  I        I        1     .
Switching                                       C--------         - O
TransmissLon        I
3SCasmiso            I     Wc T--C----I----
NOTB8z
T - SItnbhing (invitatLons to tsnder out)
C - Contract (Contract awarded)
I - anstallation (Installation start)
O - OperatLon (Network ready for operatlon)
LP - lxternal Lim Plant



AMNEX 3-5
TANZANIA TELECOM II - PROJECT IMPLEMNTATION  CHDULE          Page 2 of 3
1 1993  1 1994  1 1995  1 1996         1997
DSM (ADDB+SDA)                         t
switching           T----C-------    --------O
Transmission       IT----C---  --I        ----O
ELP                 T ---- C--I- ----O
M U8HA (IDA)                           |                 I  
switching                                T-     C----------I--------0
ERLP                                                  I T---C-----I-----------
DODONA (ADD)                  I                          I t
Switching               T-  -C-------I------O
Transmission            T ----C--------I--------O
ELP                     T S--C -------- I----------- -O
IRINGA (NEC)        I         t
switching      T------ C -       -- ---------O
Tranamission   T- ----C----I--- ------O
NLP            TC----I------ ----O
NARA (ADS)          |         |        I        I        |         I
Switching          I   T----C--------- - ---
ELP                I   T----C------I-----___o
I        I        I        I        I    
MEYA (NEC)           I        I        I        I        1
Switching      T------C---------I----------O
Transaission   T------C----I----------O
P              T------C---I----------------O
NOROCORO (IDA)      I                                              |
switching          I                     T----C-----I---O
EL?        |                              T- -C--I--------      -O
KOSHI (DANIDA)      I                  I        I        I         I
NLP                                  ---o
MWANZA (ADD)        |                  I        I                  t
switching               T-  C-----------I-        O
TraAJ disaion      I  T-C  ---I-   -O
ELP                I     --C- --- -           ----- -O_
RUXWA (NEC)         I                  I        I        1         1
switching      T-----    ---I----------
ELP ?------C---    ------0
RUVUMA (UEC)         i        I        I
switching      T-     CI              ------
EL?   S--         C---! ---  --
SHINYANGA (ADS)      I     _ I         I        I        I
Switching                              --C-- -- -I--O
Transmission      I     T----C  ------I --------O
Z P                     T----C---------
TANGA (DANIDA)       1        1        1                           I
ELP                        T--.C T   C---1I-----O
ZANZIBAR (IDA,DANIDA)         I                 I        1         1
Switching                   J                    ----I- ----I------O
Transmission        1                     T--------------o
ELP                 1                     T----C----O-      ----O
1        t        1        1        t         I



ANNMl 3-5
Page 3 of 3
TANZANIA TELECOM III - PROJECT SNPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
| 1993  1 1994  1 1995  t 1996        1997
BA-roMn TaAN8"z8StoN
Dodoma-Mwanza (ADS)         T--------    ----0             t
Dodoma-Mbeya (EEC) T----C-- ---------                      I
DSM-Dodoma (IDA)           T----C----I---------O
DSR-Zanzibar-Tanga (IDA)  T----C-1----- --O
Tanga-Moshi (IDA)          T   C -- ---------    
Moshi-Arusha (IDA)                           T-----C----I--------O
NOT8s:
T - Tendering (Invitations to tender out)
C - Contract (Contract awarded)
I - Installation (Installations start)
0 a Operation (Network ready for operation)
ULP - External Line Plant
PHASING QO IDA COMPONENT
IDA Phase -I is connected to Mid Term Review (MTR) in 1995S
- the Bank and TPTC agreed during negotiations certain conditions
for Phase U
-  if these conditions are not fulfilled by MTR, the Bank will cancel
or postpone the credit allocated for Phase U1
- Phase II contraats will not be approved by the Bank until the
conditions have been met
a) PHASE I
-  Spare parts for existing switching, external line plant and
transmission
- Upgrading of earth station with digital ZDR facility
-  External line plant in Pugu Road and Wageni (both in DSM) to
provide connection capacity for existLag exchanges
-  Long distance transmission with radio links (spurs in Phase TI)s
OSM-Dodoma, DSM-Zansibar-Pemba-Tanga-Moshi
-  Terminals: telephone sets, teleprinters, fax machines
-  Power and A/C for above mentioned transmission routes
b) phsE it
-  Switching in Arusha, Morogoro, Zanzibar, Chake Chake, Wete and
Mkoani, and in 20 rural locations
- External line plant in Arusha, Morogoro, Zanzibar and in the above
mentioned 20 rural locations
-  Long distance transmission with radio links: Moshi-Arusha
- Small radio transmission related to- above mentioned rural
locations
- spur links related to the long distance transmission routes DSM-
Dodoma and DSM-Zanxibar-Pemba-Tanga-Moshi-Arusha
- Power and A/C for above mentioned switching and transmission
In addition to above mentioned items IDA iL financing also following
items:
- vehicles
- COputers
- Consultancy to TPTC and MOC
- Training to TPTC and HOC
- Postal equipment and consultancy



AM=X 36
Page 1
TANZANIA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ENVIRONMETAL SUMnARY
In summary, the third telecommunications restructuring project, like most
telecommunication projects worldwide, is expected to have minimal effects on the
environment. The project will have a very limited impact on the land and no impact on
waterways. It can be expected to have a positive impact on air pollution since
telecommunication services will reduce the need to communicate by car or truck within
Dar Es Salaam and other urban areas (i.e. Tanga, Moshi, etc.). Outlined below are the
specific effects anticipated from the project on the environment.
New Construction
To expand the existing telecommunication infrastructure it is necessary to construct
approximately 30 new buildings for the switching and transmission equipment in rutal
areas as well as in Kariakoo, Upanga, Magomeni, and Kimara. Buildings for switching
equipment will be situated in towns and villages and will be constructed from locally
produced materials such as cement and wood. Buildings will be designed and developed
in accordance with local and national building codes. The building designs will be
similar to others in the area so as to be aesthetically pleasing. They should have a
minimal environmental impact on the land, water, or air. All oter equipment will be
accommodated in existing buildings.
Buildings for transmission microwave equipment will be located on mountain tops
in the countryside. To minimize the impact on wildlife, the building have been located
away from national parks and other protected areas. Fences around the buildings will be
small and on confined areas. Buildings will be built near exisdng roads to reduce road
construction. The building and road construction may have a minor disruption effect on
humans, the land and local wildlife during the construction period but should have no
long term impact on the land, water, or wildlife. Solar energy, which has no
environmental effect, will be used to power the microwave systems on most sites.
E3uipment
Telecommunication cables will installed and/or replaced in most cities within
Tanzania. Existing cabling ducts will be used in viAtually all cities. This will
substantally reduce the need to dig up and subsequently rpair roads within urban areas.
When appropriate, road work will be coordinated with the road, energy, and water



Page 2
departnents in the cities to ensure that damage is not caused to power, fuel, or water
lines.
The need to install interurban trnsmission cables (primarly copper) is quite limited
since microwave links are being established between aU major towns included in the
project. Where it is necessary to draw cables, consideration will be given to finding the
least obtrusive path for people and for the envuronment in a cost effective manner.
In buildings where air-conditioning equipment is necessary, I  leakage refrgear
elements will be used. This will limit the entry of CFC-gasos into the air since thie
gases can deplete the ozone layer. All other equipment including switching exchanges
and transmission lines should have no environmental impact



ANNEX 3-6
Page 3
TANZANIA
THRD TELECOMMICATIONS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Envionmental Mitgion Plan
I. Identiication and Summary of Potentia Adverse Impacts
lTere are no major environmental issues in this project. Oudined below are
specific issues which may arise.
Air Pollution - In some project buildings, air conditioning is necessary. Some CFC
gases will be leaked to the atmosphere
land Loss - It will be necessary to construct microwave towers in the rural areas
and thirty new buildlings will be constructed.
Wildlife - Tanzania has rich and abundant wildlife populations in numerous national
parks and wildlife reserves. The towers will increase the number of bird deaths from
collisions with the new towers.
Soil Erosion - Towers will be constucted on hills and the constucon of access on
the steep slopes will create soil erosion hazards.
X andsc=Yalm yA - The microwave towers on high hills are not esthetically
appeafing.
H.  Desiption of Mitigation Meawres
Air Polutn - Low leakage refrigerator elements will be used for all air
conditioning units to limit the escape of CFC gases into the atmosphere.
Land Im1    - The thirty buldings will be cnsucted in both urban and rural
areas. These buildings, constructed from local materials, will be built on unoccupied lots.
so that involuntary resettlement will not be a project issue. Microwave towers will be
constructed on unoccupied hill tops. The towers ate of a new slender design so that the
land required for construction is reduced in area. Solar energy, which will not occupy a
large area will be used to power the microwave systems on most sites.
Wildlif - None of the microwave towers will be placed in national parks or
preserves. Bird collisions with the towers will be less than with standard towers owing to
the slender design, but collisions can noi be completely avoided.



ANNEX 3-6
Page 4
soil eni.n - The contract documents for access road construction will contain soil
erosion control clauses. In addition, every effort will be made to site the towers as close
to existing roads as possible in order to reduce thpe amount of access road constructon. In
addition, existng cable ducts will be used in urban areas which will substantially reduce
the need to dig ditches to bury cable. Where it is necessary to use copper cable, the
routes will parallel existing roads where possible.
Landsc=e Values - The new slender design will be less visible than standard
towers. The towers will not be placed in areas of high tourist activities such as national
parks and wildlife reserves.
mL  Intiutional Arrangements
The executing agency, Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corpoation
(MMPC) will have the responsibility for carrying out the mitigation plan. As most of the
mitigation measures are straight foward enghieering and planning techniques, it is not
necessary for TPTC to establish a special environmental monitoring unit for the activities.
Staff planners can verify that tower locations will not be in protected areas and will not
result in involuntary resettlement. Staff engineers will take the responsibility to make sure
tat constrction contractors pay close attention to erosion control meaes on access
roads. It does not require special training to recognie erosion on access roads.
Costs for the measures have already been included in the project budget (slender
towers) and no addition staff are necessary.
IV. Implementation Schedule
Implementation is obviously a part of project implementation and a separate
disussion of schedule is not necessary.
V. Monitoring and Reporting
Site visit reports will contain a check-off staement on erosion at the site and on
access reports. The reports can also have check-off statements rerding potential
environmental problems at building sites (clean up, storage of fuel, fuel spillage, etc).
The fact that statements are present on the form increases the environmental awareness of
the TPrC staff and contractors which has desirable long term effects beyond the scope of
the telecommunications project.



Page i
I -s x''[Fel I I'!'  I [l f9"
. . ..   .. ..   . . .   .   .   .   . .   . . . . . . .  . 
...... . . .. . .. ..... .. . 0.
:~~~~ X
................................................ ....................................   .........  ....  ...........
~~~~~~~~~~~...................   ..   ...  ....    ...    .....   .... . 
-  , t ! }X I ig. ot  :k IZE  i I M   I   -t19
... .............................. ...... .  . .... .... . ....... ......................... ..
U.
E                                            Xx'   U| 8il
*. .I                                                                      I... ........... ..............................
. ~          .    .wI
............:,,,:,;.  ......... 



A4NNEX 4-1
Pag.e 2,
.. ~    ~        ~        ~       ...                .....
1 . .  . .  . ..        . .  .      .  . . .. . ..I         m
* !U  vi8      x                                       t     i          Xi1X* 
.,                                       |
a.                                      a
.                               .       .   .   .   .   .
,:3                                      U-  *   .       i   1X1         s   g3}            l



Tabe 4.2 Seleted Fiancia Perormance Indkator:s
(TSh inions)
t990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    196    1997   t1998    1999    200
x Key Data
Revenues
X  TebFhons                  . 8,094   9,538  13,248  20,139  27,548  37,624  51,788  66,084  77,172  87,598 100,036
Telex                         2,685   4,008   8,150  13,003  18,281  25,162  33,252  41,264  49,415  57,649  67,275
Telegraph                        78      82      86      90       95     100     105      110     115     121     127
Other Revenue                   250     263     276     289      304     319     335     352      369     388     407
Telecoms Operating Revenue   11,107  13,891  21,759  33,522  46,227  63205  85,480 107,810 127,072 145,756 t67,845
Total Operating Expenses      7,234   8,897  14,043  17,886  21,569  27,865  36,313  44,269  51.441  58,458  66,601
Net Operating Income (loss)   3,873   4,517   7,441  14,941  24,281  34.617  48,400  63.054  74,640  86,593  99,995
Less. Interet on Loans        1,456   1,448   2,013   2,303   2,772   4,327   6,148   7,062   7,313   7,352   7,327
Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss)  (1,924)  (1,152)  (4,593)  (3,177)  (1,557)  (2,579)  (3,774)  (6,573)  (7,029)  (7,104)  (7,124)
Tax                             500     676     157   3,870   8,498  11,887  16,607  21.378  26,089  31,193  36,955
Net Proft (LOsS)  .            (228)    826       0   2,825   6,768   9,366  13,065  16,944  20,881  25,223  30,180
Net Fixed Assets              3,804   6,244   9,480  11,972  18,614  29,822  39,657  47,986  53,249  55,749  55,960
Work in Progress              2,245       0       0   3,344  22,666  36,899  33,678  25,259  18,944  14,208  10,656
Accounts Receivables          6,054   6,814  10,742  13,847  15,308  15,721  21,28   17,910  21,117  24,228  27,906
Total Curret Assets           9,766  14,169  20,428  33,097  57,531  80,552 111,617 137,476 163,035 181,733 214,229
ToW Assets                   16,754  21,352  30,847  49,351  99,750 148,212 185,891 211,659 236,166 252,629 281,783
Capital Reseve                  514     514     514   5,097  28,823  41,678  43,001  43,001  43,001  43,001  43,001
Accumn. PoRt(Loss)          (14,118) (13,705) (13,705) (12,293)  (8,909)  (4,226)  2,307  10,778  21,219  33,830  48,920
Not Equity                  (10,747) (10,334) (10,334)  (4,339)  22,771  40,309  48,164  56,636  67,076  79,688  94,778
Loans                        15,428  16,414  22,074  25,116  35,540  60,484  75,709  80,276  80,928  80,908  80,075
Total Curen Uabditles        12,072  15,270  19,105  28,572  41,437  47,417  62,016  74,745  88,160  92,031 106,928
Total Equlyand Labilities    16,753  21,350  30,845  49,349  99,748 148,210 185,889 211,657 236,164 25227 281,781
Key Statis0cs
RoR on Revalued Assets                          15%      27%     39%     46%      51%    1Give    72%     89%    109%
DebtIDebt+EquIty) Ratio        330%    270%    188%    121%      61%     60%      61%     59%      5S%    60%      46%
DobmServiceCoverage             4.4     1.0      0.8     1.5     2.2     2.4      2.6     2.1     2.4      2.6     6.5
Curent Ratio(Tnes)              0.8     0.9      1.1     1.2     1.4      1.7     1.8     1.8     1.8      2.0     2.0
AccountRecelables(Days 8ing)    201     160     180     150      120      90      90       60      60      60      s0
lneres Coverage Ratio          1.19    2.04    1.17    4.74    7.81    7.11    7.00    7.73    893   10.43   12.21
To  Exchange Capacity        83,459 104,660 107,600 110,000 126,000 147,000 170,000 183,000 183,000 163,000 183,000



Income Statements
p4                                              (TShs Million)
EST <--- Forecast -- -                                -  -  -
< TELECOMS REVENUE              1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
x Telephone                     8,094   9,538  13,248  20,139  27,548  37,624  51.788  66,084  77,172  87,598 100,036
g Telex                         2,685   4,008   8.150  13,003  18,281  25,162  33,252  41.264  49,415  57,649  67,275
ZTelegraph                        78       82      86      90      95     100     105     110      115     121     127
Gross Telecomns Operating Reven  10,857  13,628  21,484  33,232  45,924  62,886  85,145 107,458 126,702 145,368 167,438
Other Revenue                  250     263     276      289     304     319     335     352     369     388      407
Tetecoms Operating Revenue   11,107  13,891  21,759  33,522  46,227  63,205  85,480 107,810 127,072 145,756 167,845
Telecoms Operating Expenses
Salaries                      1,434   1,723   2,922   3,653   4,476   5,665   7,190   9,154  '1,689  14,972  19,235
Operation and Maintenance     3,974   4,531   6,656   7,558   8,115   9,910  12,658  14,800  16,112  16,918  17,764
Others                        1,452   1,686   3,109   4,875   6,506   8,619  11,301  13,651  15,559  17,228  19,137
Depreciation                   373     957   1.366   1.801   2.471   3.670   5.164   6.664   8.081   9.340  10.466
Total Operating Expenses      7,234   8,897  14,043  17,886  21,569  27,865  36,313  44,269  51,441  58,458  66.601
Addn to Prov for B.debts              (477)   (275)    694)       l     737)   (487)   (991)  ff    (1.249
Net Operating income          3,873   4,517   7,441  14,941  24,281  34,617  48,400  63,054  74,640  86,593  99,995
Net Postal Operating Income (Loss  (254)   (416)   (486)   (861)  (1,067)  (1,297)  (1,575)  (1,913)  (2,323)  (2,819)  (3,421)
Less: Interest on Loans       1,456   1,448   2,013   2,303   2,772   4,327   6,148   7,062   7,313   7,352   7,327
Net Non-Operating Gain (Loss)   33
Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss)    (1,924)  (1,152)  (4,593)  (3,177)  (1,557)  (2,579)  (3,774)  (6,573)  (7,029)  (7,104)  (7,124)
NET INCOME (LOSS)              272   1,502     348   8,600  18,885  26,415  36,904  47,506  57,975  69,317  82,122
Staff lncentive Bonus                          192   1,906   3,619   5,162   7,232   9,185  11,005  12,901  14,987
Tax                            500     676      157   3.870   8.498  11.887  16.607  21.378  26.089  31.193  36.955
Net Profit (Loss)              (228)    826      0   2,825   6,768   9,366  13,065  16,944  20,881  25,223  30,180
Net Proflt (Loss) - US          (1)      4       0        7      15      19      25      30      36      41       47
_11 Operating costs split based on DETECON's report..



Funds Flow
-          (TSh Mill
Forecast
P.                             1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
4 Internal Cash Generation
l -Net Income Before Interest  1,228   2,274   2,013   5,127   9,540  13,693  19,212  24,006  28,194  *32.576  37,507
. -Depreciation                 439    957   1,356   1,801   2,471   3,670   5,164   6,664   8,081   9,340  10,466
-Foreign Exchange Loss         0       0       0  *0          0       0       0       0      0       0       0
Internal Cash Generation   10,511   3,231   3.370   6.928  12,010  17,363  24.377  30,670  36,274  41,915  47,973
Loans                       2,281   2,869   7,889   5,494  13,120  27,911  18,488  12,228   8,765   8,904   (833)
Equity                         93      0       0   4,583  23,726  12,855   1,323      0       0       0       0
TOTAL SOURCES              12,885   6,099  11,259  17,005  48,857  58,129  44,188  42,898  45,040  50,819  47,140
APPUCATIONS
Capital Expenditure         1,716   1,152   4,593   7,636  28,435  29,112  11,779   6,573   7,029   7,104   7,124
Investments                   123      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0
Debt Service Long Term Debt
-Intetest                   1,456   1,448   2,013   2,303   2,772   4,327   6,148   7,062   7,313   7,352   7,327
-Pncial                      957   1,883   2,229   2,452   2,697   2,967   3,263   7,661   8,113   8,924     0
Total Debt Service          2,413   3,331   4,242   4,754   5,469   7,293   9,411  14,723  15,425  16,276   7,327
Dividends                       0    413       0   1,412   3,384   4,683   6,632   8,472  10,440  12,611  15.090
Change in Working Capital   8,633   1,204   2,424   3,202  11,569  17,041  16,466  13,130  12,144  14,827  17,599
APPLICATIONS                12,886   6,099  11,259  17,005  48,857  58,129  44,188  42,898  45,040  50,819  47,140



Balance Sheets
-         -    Forecast 
' ASSETS                         1990   1991    1992   1993    1994   1995   1996    1997    1998   1999   2000
*  Gross Fixed Assets           7,871  11,268  15,860  20,152  29,265  44,145  59,144  74,137  87,481  99,321  109,997
4  Accumulated DepreciatIon     4,067   5,024   6,380   8,181  10,652  14,322  19,487  26,151  34,232  43,572  54,038
Tota Fixed Assets            3,804   6,244   9,480  11,972  18,614  29,822  39,657  47,986  53,249  55,749  55,960
Work In Prgress              2,245      0       0   3,344  22,666  36,899  33,678  25,259  18,944  14,208  10,656
nvkesbtmet                    938    938    938    938    938    938    938    938    938    938    938
Current Assets:
-Cash andEankDePsOts          543   2,658   1,902   7,533  26,183  42.761  60,737  82,072  98,268 108,117 130,197
-Accounts Recehiables       6,054   6,814  10,742  13,847  15,308  15,721  21,286  17.910  21,117  24,228  27,906
Less Prov. for Doubtul Accts.       (477)   (752)   (969)  (1.072)  (1,101) 41.490)  (1.254)  (1.478)  (1,698)  (1,953)
-Foreign Administration     1,974   2,469   4,352   6,704   9,245  12,641  17.096  21,562  25,414  29,151  33,589
-Othr Receivables            101   1,363   2,148   3,323   4,592   6,289   8,515  10,746  12.670  14,537  16,744
-Invntory                   1,094   1,343   2,036   2,659   3.274   4,240   5,473   6,440   7,044   7,396   7,766
Total Current Asset          9,766  14,169  20,428  33,097  57,S31  80,552 111,617 137,476 163,035 181,733 214,229
TOTAL ASSETS                16,754  21.352  30.847  49.351  99,750 148.212 185,891 211,659 236,166 252.629 281,783
U TLIflES
Capilal Rese                  514    514    514   5,097  28,823  41,678  43.001  43,001  43,001  43,001  43,001
Reseres                      2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857
Accurn. Profit (Loss)*     (14,118) (13,705) (13,705) (12,293)  (8,909)  (4,226)  2,307  10,7M   21,219  33.830  48,920
Total Equity               (10,747) (10,334) (10,334)  (4,339) 22,771  40,309  48,164  56,B36  67,076  79,688  94.778
Loans                       15,428  16,414  22,074  25,116  35,540  60,484  75,709  80,276  80,928  80,908  80,075
Current LabUlits
-Payable Foreign Administrations  4,808   6,013   7,616  11,733  16,180  22,122  29,918  37,733  44,475  51,015  58,746
-Account Payables           2,319   6,352   8,881  10,272  13,793  10,145   7,831   7,521   8,672   9,824  11,227
-Taxes Payable                723    676      157   3,870   8,498  11,887  16,607  21,378  26.089  31,193  36,955
-Current Portion of LTD     4,222   2,229   2,452   2,697   2,967   3,263   7,661   8,113   8,924      0       0
Total Current Liabilities   12,072  15,270  19,105  28,572  41,437  47,417  62,016  74,745  88,160  92,031  106,928
Total Equity and Uabilites  16,753  21,350  30,845  49,349  99,748 148,210 185,889 211,657 236,164 252,627 281,781
AUdt AdjusUnentl n 1989 of 8,845  0    2       2       2       2       2       2       2      2       2       2
ROR before I on total assets  10.31%  13.82%   7.66%  2Z.09%  21.71%  20.74%  23.16%  25.78%  27.64%  30.35%  31.74%
Working Capital              (2,306)  (1,100)  1,323   4.525  16,094  33,135  49,601  62,731  74,875  89,702 107,301
Change in Working Capital     8,631   1,206   2,424   3,202  11,569  17,041  16,466  13,130  12,144  14,827  17,599



Performance Indicators
_ -_ - -   Forecast
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
PO 1 Operating Revenue/DEL
Constant ('89 Prices)      125,337 129,843 171,303 222,927 250,244 264,581 277,513 284,125 292,371 304,948 319,314
.   Current (TShs)             151,157 182,429 274,374 399,907 493,802 574,301 662,608 746,236 844,683 969,120 *****
x  Curent (US$)                   751     812      844   1,000   1,122   1,187   1,245   1,335   1,439   1,572   1,725
1 Telsphone RevenuelDEL
Constant ('89 Prices)       93,437  90,873 105,633 135,093 150,111  158,298 168,793 174,730 178,078 183,761  190,775
Current (TShs)             112,686 127,676 169,191 242,342 296,210 343,602 403,022 458,918 514,480 583,989 666,908
Current (USS)                  S60    568      521     606     673      710     757     821     877     948   1,031
1 Telex Revenue/Subscriber ('000s)
Constant ('89 Prices)        1,267   1,474   2,292   2,848   3,200   3,600   3,985   4,223   4,478   4,749   5,038
Current (TShs)               1,528   2,072   3,671   5,109   6,315   7,814   9,514  11,092  12,936  15,091  17,611
Current(US$)                     8       9      11      13      14       16      18      20      22      24      27
1 Cash Operating Cost/DEL
Constantcog Prices)         78,446  84,765 111,978 119,985 117,531  117,235 118,355 117,049 118,702 122,631  127,013
Current (TShs)              94,606 119,094 179,354 215,240 231,922 254,472 282,592 307,421 342,940 389,720 444,010
Current (US$)                  470     530     552     538     527      526     531     550     584     632      686
2 Proporation of Ca8h Op Costs
-Payroll (%)                   24%     19%     21%      20%     21%     20%     20%     21%     23%      26%     29%
-ther Operating%)              26%     19%     22%     27%      30%     31%     31%     31%    30%       29%     29%
2Operatlng Ratio (%)             67%     65%     66%     64%     47%      44%     43%     41%     41%     40%      40%
2 Net Intemal Cash Generation(%)    665%    -7%    -30%  36%     36%      35%     73%    174%    307%    363%    571%
2Rateof ReturnonNFA(GOPINFA)   102%      72%     78%    125%    130%    116%    122%    131%    140%    155%    179%
Rate of Return on NFA (PATINFA)    -6%  13%      0%     24%     36%     31%      33%     35%     39%     45%     54%
2AccountReceivables(DaysBilling)    201  180     180     150     120      90       90      60      60      60      60
2 Bad Debt Provision (% of Billng)
2 tnventory/Av. DEL    TSh.   15,231  17,976  26,000  32,000  35,200  38,720  42,592  44,722  46,958  49,306  51,771
Inventory/Av. DEL    US$        76      80       80      80      60      80      80       80      80      80      80
2 Current Ratio (Tirnes)         0.8     0.9     1.1      1.2     1.4     1.7     1.8     1.8      1.8     2.0     2.0
2Quick Ratlio (Tnes)             0.7     0.8     1.0      1.1     1.3     1.6     1.7     1.8      1.8     1.9     1.9
2Debtf(Debt+Equity) Ratio       330%    270%    188%    121%      61%     60%     61%     59%     55%     50%      46%
3 Debt Service Coverage          4.4     1.0     0.8      1.5     2.2     2.4     2.6     2.1      2.4     2.6     6.5
3 RoR on Revalued Assets                         15%     27%     39%      46%     51%     61%     72%     89%    109%
Working Capital & Funding
b"Aftwiin_iWCI)rL)    (8,846)  (9,280) (11,688)  (6,683) 16,0"9  3$,136  41,S4) qS,9)   PW) ($6084) t141,61)
cDebt/EquityRatio                    ******* ^*****^ ******  ***^^^*  156.07% 150.05% 157.19% 141,74% 120.65% 101.53%  84.49%
d Debt I Total Assets        164.15% 148.39% 133.50% 108.79%  77.17%  72.80%  74.09%  73.24%  71.60%  68.46%  66.36%
elnterest Coverage Ratio        1.19    2.04   -1.17    4.74    7.81    7.11    7.00    7.73    8.93   10.43   12.21



CALCULATION OF FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
X Internal Rate of Return        1990   1991    1992    1993   1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
K Deflator                       0.86    1.00    1.14    1.28    1.40    1.54    1.70    1.87    2.06    2.26    2.49
Cap. Expendture
- In cwrent ters                             4,593   7.636  28,435  29,112  11,779   6.573   7.029   7,104   7,124
- deflated capital costs                     4,029   5,961  20,246  18,844   6,931   3,516   3,418   3,141   2,863
IcenlOperatin Costs
- In current terms                           1,542   4,068   7,630  12,698  20,422  25,536  28,486  32,372  36,882
- In constant terms                          1,353   3,186   5,433   8,219  12.017  13,660  13,853  14,312  14,823
Incremental Operatn R_ev s
- In curent terms                            2,360   7,568  16,246  28,658  47,883  61,986  70,164  60,500  92,722
- In constat trms                            2,070   6,920  11,567  18,649  28,176  33,159  34,121  35.589  37,266
NET BENEFITS                                  (3,312)  (3,247) (14,111)  (8,513)  9,229  15,983  16,650  18,136  19,579
Intemal Rate of Retum                        26.87%



Economic Rate of Return       1990   i991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Deflator                       0.86    1.00    1.14    1.28    1.40    1.54    1.70    1.87    2.06    2.26    2.49
o Cap. Ex. (ess duties & Taxes - 10%)
- in current terms                          4,133   6,873  25,592  26,201  10,601   5,916   6,326   6.394   6,412
- deflated capita coasm                     3.626   5,383  18,221  16,959  6,238   3.164   3,077   2,827   2,577
Incremental Operatng Costs
- in cutrent terms tess Inc. Tax)           2,061    355   3,002   9.310  15,701  20,765  23,775  27,268  31,119
- In constant terms                         1,808    278   2.137   6,026   9,239  11.108  11,562  12,055  12,507
Incementa Operatn Revenues
- In current terms                          2.360   7,558  16,246  28,658  47,883  61.986  70,164  80.500  92,722
- In constant terms                         2,070   6,920  11,567  18,549  28,176  33,159  34,121  36,569  37,266
NET BENEFITS                                 (3,364)    259  (8.791)  (4.436) 12,699  18.887  19,482  20,707  22,182
Economic Rate of Return                      51.58%



Sensitivity Analysis          1990   1991    1992    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998    1999   2000
0
' 1. With 10% increase in Cap. Exp.
N  Cap. Ex +10% in constant terms               4,432   6,579  22,271  20,728   7,624   3.868   3,760   3,455   3,150
.  Net benefits                               (3,715)  (3,845) (16,136) (10,398)  8,536  15,631  16,508  .17.822  19.293
X  IRR                                         21.46%
tap. Ex +10% In constant terms              3,988   6,921  20,044  18,655   6,862   3,481   3.384   3,109   2,835
Net benefits                                (3,727)   (279) (10,614)  (6,132) 12,075  18,670  19,175  20,424  21,924
Eco. Rate of Return                         42.84%
1 With 20% Increase In Cap. Exp.
Cap. Ex +20% In constant terms              4,834   7,177  24,295  22,612   8,317   4,219   4,102   3,769   3,436
Net benefits                                (4,118)  (4,444) (18,161) (12,282)  7,842  15,279  16.166  17,508  19,007
IRR                                         16.86%
Cap. Ex +20% Ion consant tems               4,351   6,459  21.866  20,351   7,485   3,797   3,692   3,392   3,092
Net benefits                               (4,089)   (818) (12,436)  (7,628) 11,452  18,254  18,867  20,142  21,666
Eco. Rate of Return                         35.81%
2. WIth 10% ncrease In Oper. Exp.
Oper. Ex +10% in constant terms             1,944    596   2,681   6,848  10,441  12,474  12,948  13,486  13,989
Net benefits                                (3,500)    (60)  (9,335)  (5,258) 11,498  17,520  18,097  19,276  20,699
Eco. Rate of Return                         45.24%
3. With 10% increase in Oper. Revenues
Revenues +10% in constant terms             2,277   6,512  12,724  20,404  30,994  36,475  37,533  39,148  40,992
Net benefits                               (3,157)   851  (7,635)  (2,581) 15,517  22,202  22,895  24,266  25,908
Eco. Rate of Return                         66.45%



4. With a 20% non-collections rate
Incremental Revenues -20% in current terms  1,888   6,047  12,997  22,926  38,307  49,589  56,131  64,400  74,177
Incremental Revenues in constant terms      1.656   4,736   9,254  14,840  22,541  2X,527  27,297  28,471  29,813
X  Net benefits                                (3,726)  (4,431) (16,425) (12,223)  3,593   9,351  10,025  11,019  12,126
IRR                                         5.29%
Net benelits                                (3,778)   (925) (11,105)  (8,146)  7,064  12,255  12,658  13,589  14,728
ERR                                        24.52%
5. With a 25% nion-cobectlons rate
Incremental Revenues -20% in current terms  1,770   5,669  12,185  21,493  35,913  46,490  52,623  60,375  69,541
Incremental Revenues In constant terms      1,552   4,440   8,675  13,912  21,132  24,869  25,591  26,692  27,949
Net benefits                                (3,829)  (4,727) (17,003) (13,151)  2,185   7,693   8,319   9,239  10,263
IRR                                         -0.59%
Net benefits                                (3,882)  (1,221) (11,683)  (9,073)  5,655  10,597  10,952  11,810  12,865
ERR                                         17.86%
6 TraftI growth down 10%
Incremental Revenues In curent tems         2,341   7,455  15,939  27,983  46,503  59.650  67,394  76,943  88,184
Incremental Revenesin constant terms        2,054   5,839  11,348  18,113  27,364  32,016  32,774  34,016  35,442
Net benefits                                (3,326)  (3,321) (14,312)  (8,915)  8,478  14,920  15,588  16,654  17,849
IRR                                         23.79%
Net benefits                               (3,422)    95  (9,115)  (5,001) 11,713  17,537  17,956  18,949  20,146
ERR                                        46.59%



o 7 Traffic growth down 20%
,  Incremental Revenues in current terms       2,323   7,354  15.640  27.333  45.183  57,828  64,796  73,638  84,008
Incremental Revenues in constant terms      2.038   5,760  11,136  17,692  26,587  30,935  31,511  32,555. 33.764
X  Net benefits                                (3,341)  (3,392) (14,507)  (9,301)  7,762  13,915  14,406  15,278  16,258
w  IRF1                                     20.77%
x
Net benefits                                (3,478)    (65)  (9,428)  (5,543) 10,774  16,266  16,532  17,325  18,285
ERR                                         41.80%
8 Traftc growth down 20%
Non-Colecffons Down 20%
Net benefits                                (3,728)  (4,544) (16,734) (12,840)  3,744   7,728   8,104   8,767   9,505
IRR                                          0.00%
Net benef0ts                                (3,886)  (1,217) (11.655)  (9,081)  5,456  10,079  10,230  10,814  11,632
ERR                                         15.91%



,,                                       TANZANIA POSTS & TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP. - TELECOM III
Basic Data and Asmpto
03
al4                              1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   .2000
1 GENERAL DATA:
l Population(Mill)               24.7    25.4    26.2    26.9    2.       28.5    29.4    30.2    31.1    32.0    32.9
x Local Inflation                20.6%   16.5%   14.0%   12.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.096  10.0%6  10.0%   10.0%   10.0%
0 Local Price (1989=100)         121%    140%    160%    179%    197%    217%    239%    263%    289%    318%    350%
FX Price Index (Tanzania)      6.9%    4.4%    4.4%    4.4%    4.4%    4.4%    4.1%    4.1%    4.1%    4.1%    4.1%
FXPrice(1989=100)              107%    112%    117%    122%    127%    133%    138%    144%    150%    156%    162%
Exchange Rate                 201.3   224.7   325.0   400.0   440.0   484.0   532.4   559.0   687.0   616.3   647.1
11 TELEPHONE CAPACITYICONNECTIONS:
Total Incremental Exchange Capacity
-Dar EsSalaam                 1,000   3,000   1,500   1,300  10,000  12,000  10.000   5,000       0        0       0
-Other Areas                   161  18,201   1,440   1,100   6,000   9,000  13,000   8,000        0        0       0
Total                         1,161  21,201   2,940   2,400  16,000  21,000  23,000  13,000        0       0       0
Total Exchange Capacity
-Dar Es Salaam               34,200  37,200  38,700  40,000  50,000  62,000  72,000  77,000  77,000  77,000  77,000
-Other Areas                 49,259  67,460  68,900  70,000  76,000  85,000  98,000 106,000 106,000 106,000 106,000
Total                        83,459 104,660 107,600 110,000 126,000 147,000 170,000 183,000 183,000 183,000 183,000
Average Exchange Capadty
-Dar Es Salawn               33,700  35,700  37,950  39,350  45,000  56,000  67,000  74,500  77,000  77,000  77,000
-Other Areas                 49,179  58,360  68,180  69,450  73,000  80,500  91,600 102,000 106,000 106,000 106,000
Total                        82,879  94,060 106,130 108,800 118,000 136,500 158,500 176,500 183,000 183,000 183,000
Growth Rate (of Total Cap)
-Dar Es Salaam                3.01%   8.77%   4.03%   3.36%  25.00%  24.00%  16.13%   6.94%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%
-Other Areas                  0.33%  36.95%   2.13%   1.60%   8.57%  11.84%  15.29%   8.16%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%
Total                         1.41%  25.40%   2.81%   2.23%  14.55%  16.67%  15.659%  7.65%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%
Incremental DEL - Connected
-Dar Es Salaam                1,086   2,241   1,310   2,200   6,000  10,000   8,000   5,000        0       0       0
-Other Areas                  1,285   1,148   2,490   3,600   8,000   9,000  11,000   7,000        0       0       0
Total                         2,371   3,389   3,800   5,800  14,000  19,000  19,000  12,000        0       0       0
Direct Exchange Unes - Connected
-Dar Es Salaam               30,249  32,490  33,800  36,000  42,000  52,000  60,000  65,000  65,000  65,000  65,000
-Other Areas                 42,762  43,910  46,400  50,000  58,000  67,000  78,000  85,000  85,000  85,000  85,000
Total                        73,011  76,400  80,200  86,000 100,000 119,000 138,000 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Average Lines - Connected
-Dar Es Salaam               29,706  31,370  33,145  34,900  39,000  47,000  56,000  62,500  65,000  65,000  65,000
-Other Areas                 42,120  43,336  45,155  48,200  54,000  62,500  72,500  81,500  85,000  85,000  85,000
Total                        71,826  74,706  78,300  83,100  93,000 109,500 128,500 144,000 150,000 150,000 1N5,000



Excharnge Fl - Tot. Cotnected  1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
-Dar Es Salaam                88.4%   87.3%   87.3%   90.0%   84.0%   83.9%   83.3%   84.4% 184.4%   84.4%   84.4%
-Other Areas                   86.8%   65.1%   67.3%   71.4%   76.3%   78.8%   79.6%   80.2%   80.2Vs  80.2%   80.2%
P Total                          87.5%   73.0%   74.5%   78.2%   79.4%   81.0%   81.2%. 82.0%   82.0%   82.0%   82.0%
c Growth Rate - Tot. Connected
4 -Dar Es Salaam                 3.72%   7.41%   4.03%   6.51%  16.67%  23.81%  15.00%  15.00%  10.00%   0.00%   0.00%
K -Other Areas                  3.10%   2.68%   5.67%   7.76%  16.00%  15.52%  16.00%  12.00%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%
X Total                          5.09%   4.64%   4.97%   7.23%  16.28%  19.00%  15.97%   8.70%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%
Incremental DEL - Working (Estimated)
-Dar Es Salaam                1,472   1,472   4,300   5,000   6,000   8,000   9,257   4,500        0        0       0
-Other Areas                  3,005   3,005   4,300   5,300   8,000   9,000  13,108   6,300        0        0       0
Total                         4,477   4,477   8,600  10,300  14,000  17,000  22,365  10,800        0        0       0
Direct Exchange Unes - Working (Est.)
-Dar Es Sala;m               19,971  21,443  25,743  30,743  38,743  44,743  54,000  58,500  58,500  58,600  58,500
-Other Areac                 27,487  30,492  34,792  40,092  48,092  57,092  70,200  76,500  76,500  76,500  76,500
Total                        47,458  51,935  60,535  70,835  84,835 101,835 124,200 135,000 135,000 135,000 135,000
Averaqe Liria - Working
-Dar Es Salaam               19,613  20,707  23,593  28,243  33,743  40,743  49,372  56,250  58,500  58,500  58,500
-Other Areas                 27,074  28,990  32,642  37,442  44,092  52,592  63,646  73,350  76,500  76,500  76,500
Total                        46,687  49,697  56,235  65,685  77,835  93,335 113,018 129,600 135,000 135,000 135.000
Exchange Fill - Tot. Working
-Dar Es Salaam               66.02%  66.00%  76.16%  85.40%  87.48%  86.04%  90.00%  90.00%  90.00%  90.00%  90.00%
-Other Areas                 64.28%  69.44%  74.98%  80.18%  82.92%  85.21%  90.00%  90.00%  90.00%  90.00%  90.00%
Total                        65.00%  67.98%  75.48%  82.37%  84.84%  85.58%  90.00%  90.00%  90.00%  90.00%  90.00%
Growth Rate - Tot. Working
-Dar Es Salaam                3.72%   7.37%  20.05%  19.42%  19.52%  21.77%  20.69%   8.33%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%
-Other Areas                  3.10%  10.93%  14.10%  15.23%  19.95%  18.71%  22.96%   8.97%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%
Total                         3.36%   9.43%  16.56%  17.01%  19.76%  20.04%  21.96%   8.70%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%



1n                            1990    1991    1992   1993    1994    1995    1996   1997   1998    1999    2000
| TELEPHONE TRAFFIC
TELEPHONE TRAFFIC VOLUME (Historical and Projections)
n' a) International Outgoing (Minutes)    3.4  3.7    4.6    5.7    7.4    9.5    12.5   15.4    17.4    18.7   20.2
b) Intemational Incoming (Minutes)    4.9  5.4    6.6    8.3   10.6   13.7    17.9   22.2   25.0    27.0   29.2
c c) National
x  -Trunk (Minutes)              5.5    6.2      7.7    9.8    12.8    16.9   22.5 .  28.4   32.6    35.8   39.4
0  -STD (Units)                650.0   707.9   921.2  14291.2  1,759.5  2,320.9  3,091.3  3,899.4  4,468.1  4,914.9  5,406.8
TELEPHONE TRAFFIC VOLUME/ AV. DEL (Historical and Projections)
a)InternatioalOutgoing(Minutes)    71  75      81      87      94     102     110    119    129    139    160
b)lnternationallncoming(Minutes)   103  108    117    126    136    147    159    171         185    200    216
c) National
-Trunk (Minutes)             116     124     136    150    165    181        199    219    241       265    292
-STD (Units)               13,696  14,244  16,381  19,657  22,606  24,866  27,353  30,088  33,097  36,406  40,047
GROWTH TELEPHONE TRAFFIC VOLUME (Historical and Projections)
a)IntermationalOutgoing(Minutes) 25.56%9  9.95%  22.21%  26.15%  27.98%  29.51%  30.78%  23.85%  12.50%   8.00%   8.00%
b)internationallncorming(Minutes)  9.00%   9.95%  22.21%  26.15%  27.98%  29.51%  30.78%  23.85%  12.50%   8.00%   8.00%
c) National
-Trunk (Minutes)           10.69%  12.05%  24.47%  28.48%  30.356%  31.91%  33.20%  26.14%  14.58%  10.00%  10.00%
-STO (UnIs)                 7.17%   8.91%  30.13%  40.17%  36.27%  31.91%  33.20%  28.14%  14.58%  10.00%  10.00%
GROWTH TELEPHONE TRAFFIC VOLUME/ AV. DEL (Hitrcal and Projections)
a) Interational Outgoing (Minutes)  21.5%    5.0%    8.0%    8.0%    8.0%    8.0%    8.0%    .0%    8.0%    8.0%    8.0%
b) Internatnal lncming (Minutes)   5.56    5.0%    8.0%    8.0%    8.0%    8.0%    8.0%    8.0%    .0%    8.0%    8.0%
c) National
-Trunk (Minutes)             7.1%    7.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%
-STD (Units)                 3.7%    4.0%   15.0%   20.0%   15.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%
TELEPHONE TARIFF INCREASES AND UNIT PRICES:
Installation                 6,600   6,600  20,000  23,951  26,346  28,980  31,878  33,951  36,157  38,508  41,011
Rental                        545    545   1,500   1,796   1.976   2,174   2,391   2,546   2,712   2,888   3,076
International Charge    0   1,289   1,439   1,000   1,231   1,231   1,231   1,231   1,169   1,111   1,055   1,002
In    185    206    299    367    367    367         367    349    332       315     299
National
-Trunk                       5.8    5.8       12    13.4   14.8   16.3    17.9   19.7   21.6    23.8    26.2
-Direct Dial                 3.0     3.0       5     5.0    5.5    6.1       6.7    7.4    8.1       8.9     9.8
Other



11                               1990    1991    1992    1993   1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
it TELEX CAPACITYICONNECTIONS:
Incremental Capacity            0   2,000       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Incremental Subscribers Connecte    85  270    300    350    350    300    250        200       0       0       0
Total Installed Exchange Capacity  2,340   4,340   4,340   4,340   4,340   4,340   4,340   4,340   4,340   4,340   4,340
V4 Subscribers Connected        1,800   2,070   2,370   2,720   3,070   3,370   3,620   3,820   3,820   3,820   3,820
3  Exchange Fill                76.9%   47.7%   54.6%   62.7%   70.7%   77.6%   83.4%   88.0%   88.0%   88.0%   88.0%
Average Unes                 1,758   1,935   2,220   2,545   2,895   3,220   3,495   3,720   3,820   3,820   3,820
Incremental Subscriber         85    270      300     350    350    300    250    200           0       0       0
Growth Rate                   5.0%   15.0%   14.5%   14.8%   12.9%    9.8%    7.4%    5.5%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
TELEX TRAFFIC VOLUME (Hlstorical and Projections)
a) International Outgoing (Minutes)   4.12  5.4  7.2   9.2    11.5   14.1    16.9    19.7    22.3    24.5   27.0
b) International Incoming (Minutes)   2.00  2.4  4.7   6.2    8.1    10.4   13.0   15.9    18.8    21.6   24.9
c) National (Units)           3.80     4.2     9.6    13.2   18.0   24.1    28.7   33.6    38.0    41.8   46.0
TELEX TRAFFIC VOLUMEI AV. SUBSCRIBER (Historical and Projections)
a) International Outgoing (Minutes)  2,344  2,813.1  3,235.0  3,623.3  3,985.6  4,384.1  4,822.6  5,304.8  5,835.3  6,418.8  7,060.7
b) Intemational Incoming (Minutes)  1,138  1,251.8  2,128.0  2,447.2  2,814.3  3,236.5  3,721.9  4,280.2  4,922.2  5,660.6  6,509.7
c) National (Units)          2,162   2,162   4,324   5,189   6,227   7,472   8,220   9,042   9,946  10,940  12,034
GROWTH TELEX TRAFFIC (Historical and Projections)
a) lntemational Outgoing (Minutes)  -8.4%   32.1 %   31.9%   28.4%   25.1%   22.3%   19.4%   17.1%   13.0%   10.0%   10.0%
b) International Incoming (Minutes)  22.0%   21.1%   95.0%   31.8%   30.8%   27.9%   24.8%   22.4%   18.1%   16.0%   15.0%
c) National (Units)          -1.6%   10.1%  129.5%   37.6%   36.5%   33.56   19.4%   17.1%   13.0%   10.0%   10.0%
GROWTH TELEX TRAFFIC VOLUMEI AV. SUBSCRIBER (Historical and Projections)
a)InternationalOutgoing(Minutes) -19.1%   20.0%   15.0%   12.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0% O 10.0%   10.0%
b) Intemational Incoming (Minutes)   7.7%   10.0%   70.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%
c) National (Units)         -13.1Ya   0.0%  100.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%
TELEX TARIFF INCREASES AND UNIT PRICES:
a) Installation             30,000  30,000   8,500  10,179  11,197  12,317  13,548  14,429  15,367  16,366  17,429
b) Rental                   10,260  10,260   2,700   3,233   3,557   3,912   4,304   4,583   4,881   5,199   5,536
c) lntemational Charge  0      480     536     775     954   1,050   1,154   1,270   1,333   1.400   1,470   1,544
In   151      168    244      300     330     363    399    419       440     462    485
d) National                     52     104    141      169    188    205    225    240         256     272    290
e) Other
TELEGRAPH SERVICE
1 Annual Growth Rate (%)       0.0%    5.0%    5.0%    5.0%    5.0%    5.0%    5.0%    5.0% 9      5.0%    5.0%    5.0%
L OTHER REVENUE
1 Postal Revenue Growth Rate (%)    8.0%   25.0%   25.0%   25.0%   25.0%   25.0%   25.0%   25.0%   25.0%   25.0%   25.0%
20ther-Revenue Growth Rate (%)    10.1%  20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%



,  BILLING EFFICIENCY (%).
1 Telephone
u 2Telex
a  BAD DEBT PROVISION
1 Bad Debt Provision             7.0%    7.0%    7.0%    7.0%    7.0%    7.0%    7.0%    7.0%6   7.0%    7.0%    7.0%
x                                 1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
n STAFFING
Telecom Staff                 4,046   4,046   3,700   3,500   3,250   3,250   3,250   3,250   3,250   3,250   3,250
Postal Staff                  2,227   2,487   2,777   3,101   3,463   3,868   4,319   4,823   5,386   6,015   6,717
OtherStaff                    2,113   2,113   2,100   2,100   2,100   2,100   2,100   2,100   2,100   2,100   2,100
Staffing Ratio                   75      72       63      56      46      38       32      28      27       27      26
Real Increase in Unit Staff Cost  0.30    0.00    0.50    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10
Telecoms O&M Cost (US$ per Av.  238.2   214.4   193.0.   173.7   156.3   150.0   150.0   150.0   150.0   150.0   150.0
Telecoms Other Cost (% Cash Op   24.8%   11.0%   12.0%   13.0%   14.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%
Taxation                        45%     456      45%     45%     45%      45%     45%     45%      45%     45%     45%
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE:    TOTAL =
Local Component                   0       0        0   1,022   3,768   3,768      550       0       0        0       0
Foreign Component                 0       0        0   3,437  23,110  22,765   7,455        0       0        0       0
Future Program
Depreciation (% of GFA)         10%     10%      10%     10%     10%      10%     10%     10%      10%     10%     10%
LOANS AND DEBT SERVICE:
Foreign Loan                      0       0       0   4,583  44,063  60,600  25,136         0       0        0       0
Interest                      1,456   1,448   2,013   2,303   2,772   4,327   6,148   7,062   7,313   7,352   7,327
Prindpal                        957   1,883   2,229   2,452   2,697   2,967   3,263   7,661   8,113   8,924          0
Outstanding Debt             15,428  16,414  22,074  25,116  35,540  60,484  75,709  80,276  80,928  80,908  80,075
FX Loss (Gain)                1,924   1,152   4,593   3,177   1,557   2,579   3,774   6,573   7,029   7,104   7,124
WORKING CAPITAL:
AccountsReceivables(DaysOp. R    180    180      180     150     120      90       90      60      60       60      60
Recievables from For Admin as %    17.8%   17.8%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%
Other Receivables (% of Op Rev)    7.5%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10.0%,  10.0%   10.0%
Inventory per DEL (US$)        90.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0
Accounts Payables (% Cash exp.)   90.0%  80%     70%     50%     30%      20%     20%     20%      20%     20%     20%
Payables to For. Admin. as % Sale  43.3%   43.3%   35.0%   35.0%   35.0%   35.0%   35.0%   35.0%   35.0%   35.0%   35.0%
Working Capital Requirements (TSh)
Accounts Receivables          3,027   3,407   5,371   5,769   5,103   3,930   5,322   2,985   3,520   4,038   4,651
Other Receivables



q4
.t
0  Breakdown ot Revenues        1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
N Telephone Revenue
l - National                   2,821   3,066   6,733  10.024  14,604  20,861  29,866  40,292  49,606  59,316  71,019
K - International   Collection   4,370   5,363   4,555   7,072   9,051  11,722  15,329  18,035  19,275  19,777  20.291
Inpayment    903   1,108   1,959   3,042   3,893   5,041   6,593   7,757   8.290   8,506   8,727
Total      5,273   6,472   6,514  10,114  12,944  16,763  21,922  25,792  27,566  28,282  29,018
- Total Telephone            8,094   9,538  13,248  20,139  27,548  37,624  51,788  66,084  77,172  87,598 100,036
Telex revenue
- National                    417    683   1,432   2,339   3,485   5,085   6,658   8,281   9,936  11,616  13,583
- International  Collection   1,966   2,918   5,568   8,798  12,110  16,298  21,405  26,314  31,210  36,047  41,635
Inpayment    302    408   1,150   1,867   2,686   3,779   5,189   6,669   8,270   9,986  12,058
Total      2,268   3,325   6,718  10,665  14,796  20,077  26,594  32,983  39,479  46,033  53,692
- Total Telex                2,685   4,008   8,150  13,003  18,281  25,162  33,252  41,264  49.415  57,649  67,275
Telegram Revenue               78      82      86      90      95    100    105    110    115    121    127
TOTAL TELECOMS REVENUE    10,857  13,628  21,484  33,232  45,924  62,886  85,145 107,458 126,702 145,368 167,436



Income Stateent
ET Tes Miion)
EST <   Forecast -   -                  -
TELECOMS REVENUE              1990    1991    1992   1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
Telephone                    8,094   9,538  13,248  20,139  27,548  37,624  51,788  66,084  77,172  87,598 100,036
. Telex                         2,685   4,008   8,150  13.003  18,281  25.162  33,252  41,264  49,415  57,649  67.275
X IG Telegrah                       78      82      86      90      95     100     105     110     115    121    127
Gross Telecoms Operating Reven  10,857  13,628  21,484  33,232  45,924  62,886  85,145 107,458 126,702 145.368 167,438
Othr Revenue                  250             zM       289    S       319    335    352         n      388    407
Teocom Operating Revenue    11,107  13,891  21,759  33,522  46,227  63,205  85,480 107,810 127,072 145,756 167,845
Tefecoms Operating Expenses
Sales                        1,434   1,723   2,922   3,653   4,476   5,665   7,190   9,154  11,689  14,972  19,235
Operation and Maintenance    3,974   4,531   6,656   7,558   8,115   9,910  12,658  14,800  16,112  16,918  17,764
Otes                         1,452   1,686   3,109   4,875   6,506   8,619. 11,301  13,651  15,559  17,228  19,137
Depreciation                   373     957  1j       1.801   2.456   3.579   5.008   60   7.940   9.217  10.364
Total Operating Expenses     7,234   8,897  14,043  17,886  21,554  27,773  36,156  44,114  51,300  58,335  66,500
Addn to Prov for B.debts             lOm      12Th)      (l 377  l7na)   767   ZM   LafI    L                1L24)
Net Operating Income         3,873   4,517   7,441  14,941  24,296  34,709  48,557  63,209  74,780  86,716 100,097
Net Postal Operating Income (Loss  (254)   (416)   (486)   (861)  (1,067)  (1,297)  (1,575)  (1,913)  (2,323)  (2,819)  (3,421)
Less: Interest on Loans      1,456   1,448   2,013   2,303   2,340   3,891   6,292   7,262   7,547   7,592   7,571
Net Non-Operating Gain (Loss)   33
Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss)    (1,924)  (1,152)  (4,593)  (3,177)  (1,557)  (1.56   (3,877)  (6,808)  (7,288)  (7,370)  (7,396)
NET INCOME (LOSS)              272   1,502     348   8,600  19,332  27,959  36,813  47,205  57.622  68,934  81,708
Staff Incentive Bonus                          192   1,906   3,619   5,314   7,217   9,150  10,986  12,862  14,947
Tax                            500     676     157   3.870  L87    12.581  16.5    21.242  25.93   31AZ    36.Zl
Net Profit (LoSS)             (228)    826       0   2,825   7,014  10,063  13,030  16,813  20,726  25,052  29,993
Not Prol (LOSS) - US$           (1)      4       0       7      16      21     *24      s0      35      41      46
_11 Operating costs split based on DETECON's report.



Funds Flow
(TSh Mi)
-  Forecast - -   --
Sources                      1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Intemal Cash Generation      Est.
-Net Income Before Interest  1,228   2,274   2,013   5,127   9,353  13,954  19,322  24,096  28,273  32,644  37,564
x,3, -Depreciation                 439    957   1,356   1,801   2,456   3,579   5,008   6,510   7,940   9,217  10,364
-Others                        0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0
-Prior year's adjustment    8,845
Intemal Cash Generation    10,511   3,231   3,370   6,926  11,809  17.533  24,33   30,605  36,213  41,862  47,928
Loans                        2,281   2,869   7,889   5,494   2,952  39,018  19,905  12,654   9,043   9,191    (791)
Equity                         93       0       0   4,583 35,017       0       0       0       0       0      0
TOTAL SOURCES               12,885   6,099  11,259  17,005  49,778  56,551  44,234  43,259  45,256  51,053  47,137
APPUCATIONS
Capital Expenditure          1,716   1,152   4,593   7,63   27,247  28,096  11,882   6,808   7,288   7,370   7,396
Investrnws                    123       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0
Others                         33       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0
Debt Service Long Term Debt
-Interest                   1,456   1,448   2,013   2,303   2,340   3,891   6,292   7,282   7,547   7,592   7,571
-Principal                    957   1.883   2,229   2,452   2,697   2,967   3,263   7,851   8,322   9,154     0
Total Debt Seice             2,413   3,331   4,242   4,754   5,037   6,858   9,555  15,133  15,869  16,746   7,571
Dividends Paid   K              0    413        0   1,412   3,507   S,031   6,515   8,407  10,363  12,526  14,997
Change In Working Capital    8,657   (909)  3,179  (2,428)  (6,926)   (387)   (964)  (8,129)  (4,049)  5,221  (4,468)
APPLICATIONS                12,909   3,987  12,014  11,375  28,864  39,597  26,986  22,219  29,471  41,864  25,496
Changs In Cash                 (24)  2,113   (755)  5,630  20,914  16,954  17,246  21,040  16,785   9,189  21,641
Opening Cash Balnce            69    545   2,658   1,902   7,533  28,447  45,401  62,647  83,687  99,472 108,660
Closing Cash Balance          545   2,658   1,902   7,533  28,447  45,401  62,647  83,687  99,472 108.660 130,302
2
(S59)   809  (4,051)  4,602  13,699  11,062  15,739  23,601  24,3   19,894  44,825
(565)  (1,717)  (3,296)  2,142  24,295 (10,923)  (8,022)  (5,846)  (1,755)  (1,821)  8,187
Margin s
lntenalCashGenas %oflmnves   -7.20%^ ^    -11.23%  14.62%  16.07%  20.37%  76.65%         308.14%  99.98% 86.11%



Fs Flow
M(TSh M
* ~~~~ForeCa 
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Internal Cash Generation
-Net Income Before Interest  1,228   2,274   2,013   5,127   9,353  13,954  19,322  24,096  28,273  32,644  37,564
x <| -Depreciation           439    957   1,356   1,801   2,456   3,579   5,08   6,510   7,940   9,217  10,364
-Foreg Exxchange Loss          0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0
Intemal Cash Generation     10.511   3,231   3,370   6,928  11,809  17,533  24,330  30,605  36,213  41,862  47,928
Loans                        2,281   2,869   7,889   5,494   2,952  39,018  19,905  12,654   9,043   9,191    (791)
Equiy                          93       0       0   4,583  35,017      0       0       0       0      0       0
TOTAL SOURCES               12,885   6,099  11,259  17,005  49,778  56,551  44.234  43,259  45,256  51,053  47,137
APPUCATIONS
Capial. Expeure              1,716   1,152   4.593   7,636  27,247  28,095  11,882   6,808   728    7,370   7,396
InvesmenXt                    123       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0      0       0
Debt Sevic Long Term Debt
-Interest                   1,456   1,448   2,013   2,303   2,340   3,891   6,292   7.282   7,547   7,592   7,571
-Principal                    957   1,883   2,229   2,452   2,697   2,967   3,263   7,851   8,322   9,154     0
Total Debt Servime           2,413   3,331   4,242   4,754   5,037   6,85B   9,555  15,133  15,869  16,746   7,571
DMidends                        0     413       0   1,412   3,507   5,031   6,515   8,407  10,363  12,526  14,997
ChaneInWorkingCapital        8,633   1,204   2,424   3,202  13,988  16,567  16,282  12,911  11.736  14,410  17,173
APPUCATIONS                 12,885   6,099  11,259  17,005  49,778  56,551  44,234  43,259  45,256  51,053  47,137



Balnc Sheet
(TSh MM)
-     -    ~~~Foroast   -     -       --              --
ASSETS                        1990   191    1992    1993    1994   1996    1996   1997    196    1999    2000
Gross Fbied Asets            7.871  11,26   15,660  20,162  26.968  42,6   57.544  72,647  66.156  98,192 109,087
Acm,4td Deprecaton           4,067   5,024   6,380   6,181  10,37  14.26  19,223  25.733  33,673  42,891. 53.254
ToWtFbted Asset              3.804   6,244   9,40   11,972  18,331  26,392  38.321  46,914  52,483  55,301  55,633
WorkinProgroess              2,245      0       0   3,344  21,775  36,231  33,177  24,883  16,662  13,997  10.497
_nvestments9                          93    9us       93u    938    9s        938     9       9 m  938        m
Curnt Asses
-Cash and Ebnk Deposit        543   2,656   1,902   7.533  28,447  45,401  62,647  83,667  99,472 108,660 130,302
-Accounts ReceIvabies        6,054   6,814  10,742  13,847  15,38   15,721  21.266  17,910  21.117  24,228  27,906
Less Prov. for Doubtfut Accts        (477)   (752)   (96)  (1.072)  (1,101)  (1.490)  (1.254)  (1.478)  (1.696)  (1,953)
-Foreign Administration      1,974   2,469   4.352   6,704   9,245  12,641  17,096  21,562  25,414  29,151  33,569
-Other ReceIvabls             101   1,363   2.148   3,323   4.592   629   8,515  10,746  12,670  14,537  16,744
-Invenory                    1,094   1.343   2,036   2,659   3,274   4,240   5.473   6,440   7,044   7,396   7,766
ToWt Current Asset           9,766  14,169  20,428  33,097  59,795  83,191 113.527 139.090 164,239 182,276 214.333
TOTAL ASSETS                16,754  21.352  30,847  49,351  100.840 148,753 185,963 211.825 236,322 252,513 281,601
LUALMES
Capital Reserve                514    514      514   5,097  40,114  40,114  40.114  40,114  40,114  40,114  40.114
Reserves                     2,857   2.857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2.857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857
Accum. Protit (Loss) *      (14,118) (13,705) (13,705) (12.293)  (8,786)  (3,754)  2,761  11,167  21,530  34,056  49,053
Total Equity                (10,747) (10,334) (10,334)  (4,339) 34,185  39,217  45,732  54,136  64,501  77,027  92,024
Loans                       15,428  16,414  22,074  25,116  25.371  61.423  78,064  82,867  83,588  83,625  82,834
Current Uabilti
-Payable Foreign Administrations  4,808   6,013   7,616  11,733  16,180  22.122  29,918  37,733  44,475  51,015  568,746
-Account Paysbles            2,319   6,352   8,881  10,272  13,436  10,145   7,831   7,521   8,672   9,824  11,227
-Taxes Payable                723    676      157   3,870   8,700  12,581  16,566  21,242  25,930  31,020  36,769
-Current Portion of LTD      4,222   2,229   2,452   2,697   2,967   3,263   7,851   8,322   9,154      0       0
Toal Curent Labiites        12,072  15,270  19.105  28,572  41,282  48,112  62,165  74,818  85,231  91,858 106,742
To  Equity and Labi!lities  16,753  21,350- 30,845  49,349 100,838 148,751 185,961 211,823 236,321 252,511 281,600
AuditAdjustmentin1989of8,845    0       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2
ROR before I on total assets  10.31%  13.82%   7.66%  22.09%  21.49%  21.41%  23.18%  25.72%  27.86%  30.31%  31.70%
Working Capital               (2,306)  (1,100)  1,323   4,525  18,513  35,079  51,361  64,272  76,008  90.418 107,591
Change In Working Capital      8,631   1,206   2,424   3,202  13,988  16,567  16,282  12,911  11,736  14,410  17,173.



ASSETS                       1990   1991   1992   193    1994   199S   1996   1997   1998    19            200
Gross Fixed Assets (Per Del:  40.040  50.724  82,781 104.448 124.608 158,558 202,625 236,801 257,798 270,688 284,222
Accumulated Depreciation    21,052  26,670  43,524  54,916  65,516  83,366 106,482 124,504 135,543 142,321 149,437
TotalFbxed Assets           18,988  24,055  39,257  49,532  59,092  75,192  96,042 112,297 122,254 128,367 134,785
x U
Work in Progress
Investments                   938    938    "m       938    936    938    938    936    98           m       m
Current Assets:
-Cash and Bank Deposits       543   2,658   1,902   7,533  28,447  45,401  62,647  63,687  99,472 108,660 130,302
-Accounts Receivables       6,054   6,814  10,742  13,847  15,308  15,721  21,286  17,910  21,117  24,228  27,906
Less Prov. for Doubtful Accts.      (477)   (752)   (9)  (1.072)  (1,101)  (1,490)  (1,254)  (1,478)  (1,698)  (1,89)
-Foreign Administration     1,974   2,469   4,352   6,704   9,245  12,641  17,096  21,562  25,414  29,151  33,569
-Oher Receivables             101   1.363   2,148   3,323   4,592   6,28    8,515  10.746  12,670  14,537  16,744
-Inventory                  1,094   1.343   2,036   2,659   3,274   4,240   5,473   6,440   7,044   7,396   7,766
Total Cwrrent Assets         9,766  14,169  20,428  33,097  59,795  83,191 113,527 139,090 164,239 182,276 214,333
TOTAL ASSETS                16,754  21,352  30,847  49,351 100,840 148,753 185,963 211,625 236.322 252,513 281,601
UABIUTIES
Capita Resrve                 514    514    514   5,097  40,114  40,114  40,114  40,114  40,114  40,114  40,114
Reserves                     2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,657   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857   2,857
Accum. Proft (Loss)        (14,118) (13,705) (13,705) (12,293)  (6,786)  (3,754)  2,761  11,167  21,530  34,056  49,053
Less Prior Year Adjustment
Tota Equity                (10,747) (10,334) (10,334)  (4,339) 34,185  39,217  45,732  54,138  64,501  77,027  92,024
Loans                       15,428  16,414  22,074  25,116  25,371  61,423  78,064  82,867  83,588  83,625  82,834
Current Uabilitis
-Payable Foreign Administrations  4,808   6,013   7,616  11,733  16,180  22,122  29,918  37,733  44,475  51,015  58,746
-Account Payables           2,319   6,352   8,881  10,272  13,436  10,145   7,831   7,521   8,672   9,824  11,227
-Taxes Payable                723    676    157   3,870   8,700  12,581  16,566  21,242  25,930  31,020  36,76
-Current Portion of LTD     4,222   2,229   2,452   2,697   2,967   3,263   7,851   8,322   9,154     0       0
Total Current Uabiltes      12,072  15,270  19,105  28,572  41,2   48,112  62,165  74,818  66,231  91,858 106,742
Total Equity and Uabilities  16,753  21,350  30,845  49,349 100,838 148,751 185,961 211,823 236,321 252,511 281,600
0      2       2       2       2       2       2      2       2       2       2
D/E ratio                    330%   270%   188%   121%    43%    61%    63%    60%    56%            52%    47%
Receivables (%)               55%    49%    49%    41%    33%    25%    25%    17%    17%            17%    17%



NET INCOME: WITH              1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    199       1997    1996    1999    2000
REVALUED DEPRECIATION                  --      -        _               -              --       -                -
NET TELECOAS INCOME           3,873   4,517   7.441  14,941  24.296  34,709  48,557  63.209  74,780  86,716 100,097
'   LessStan Bonus                   0       0    (i1    (1,966)  (3,619)  (5,314)  (7,217)  (9,150) (10,966) (12,862) (14,947)
w - _- _e __                               -       -     --.  -                     -       -               -
K @                               3,873   4,517   7.249  13,035  20,677  29.394  41,340  64,059  63,614  73,854  85,151
co Pkus Depr. from US              373      957   1,356   1,801   2,456   3,579   5,008   6,510   7,940   9,217  10,364
--                       -
4.246   5,474   8.606  14,836  23,133  32,973  46,348  60,569  71,754  83,072  95,514
Lefst Ro   De fromw BS       (2,402)  (3,043)  (4,967)  (6,26)  (7,476)  (9,514) (12,151) (14,208) (15,468) (16,241) (17,053)
Nt Ilncome Before Taxes       1,644   2,430   3,63S9   SSS  15,657  23,460  34,196  46,361  56,286  66,831  78,461
Taxes                           174     442     731   2,820   5,993   8,808  12,557  17,585  21.933  26,657  31,901
Net Income                    1,669   1,988   2,907   5,749   9,664  14,654.  21,639  28,775  34,358  40,173  46,61
ROR (Sef. ntres
on Tout Assmes)             10.10%   9.24%   9.18%  12.95%  17.79%  21.83%  25.27%  27.62%  29.29%  32.06%  35.39%



Table 4.1: S Table 4.2 Selected Finanil Perman  Indicato
(TSh Muon)
1990   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1        1997    198    1999    2000
Net Revenue                    11,107  13,891  21,759  33522  46J7  63,205  85,460 107,810 127,072 145,766 167,845
c aTota Operating Cost           7,234   $7  14,043  17,686  21,4   97,773  36,156  44,114  51,300  6,3835  6650
Net Operatng Income (Loss)   3,73   4,994   7,716  15,635  24,674  35,432  49,324  63,6    75,m    87,421  101.34
Interest                     1,456   1.448   2,013   2.303   2,340   3,691   6,292-  7,28   7,547   7,9    7,571
Oth encome(LOsS)                33       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0
Foreign Excg Loas            (1,924)  (1.15)  (4.53)  (3.177)  (157   (1,562)  (3.877  (6.60   (7.288)  (7,0)  (7,36
Tax                            500    67       157   3,870   8.700  12.581  16.566  21,242  25,93   31,020  36,769
Net Income (Loss)             (228)    626       0   2,825   7,014  10,063  13,030  16,613  20,726  25,052  29,993
CURRENT PRICES
Telcxms RevenuelDEL       151,157 182,429 274,374 399,907 493.602 574,301 662,608 746,236 844.683 969,120 1116254
Telephone Revenue/DEL     112,686 1?7,676 169,191 242,342 296,210 343,602 403.022 458,918 514,460 586,989 66,6906
Cash Operating Cost/DEL    94,606 119,O0b' 179,354 215,240 231,762 253,635 281,372 306,348 342,002 368,902 443,330
CONSTANT PRICES
Tekbowns Revenue/DEL      125,337 129.643 171,303 222,927 250,244 264,581 277,513 284,125 292,371 304,948 319,314
Telephone RevenuDEL        93,437  90,873 105,633 135,093 150,111 158,288 168,793 174,730 178,078 183,761 190,775
CashOperatingCost/DEL      78,446  84,765 111,978 119,985 117,450 11 6,850 117,844 116,640 118,377 122,374 125,818
Net Internal Cash Genation    665%    -7%    -30%       36%     39%     39%     74%    16%    *         ^
Rate o Retun (NFA)             102%     72%     78%    125%    133%    122%    127%   135%    142%    157%    179%
AccountsRecelvables(DaysBll)   201     160    10       150     120      90      90      60      60      60      so
Current Ratio                   0.8     0.9     1.1     1.2     1.4     1.7     1.8     1.9      1.9     2.0     2.0
Debtf(Debt+Equity) Ratio      330%    270%    188%    121%    43%       61%     63%     60%    566      52%      47%
Debt Servioe Coverage           4.4     1.0     0.8     1.5    2.3      2.6     2.5     2.0     2.3      2.5     6.3
No inestme  projected In ths years



CALCULATION OF FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
internal Rate of Retum         1990   1991    192    1993   1994    1996    1996   1997    198    1999    2000
K ~peflator                       0.86    1.00    1.14    1.28    1.40    1.54    1.70    1.87    2.06    2.26    2.49
" 'Cap. Expe_ tUre
- In current terms                           4,596   7,636  27,247  28,095  11,882   6.808   7,286   7,370   7.396
- deflted capital costs                     4,029   5,981  19,400  18,185   6,992   3,642   3,544   3,258   2.973
Incremental Operating Costs
- In cturent terms                           1,642   4,068   7,625  12,65p  20,333  25,447  28,408  32,304  38,6825
- In constant terms                          1,353   3,186   5,429   8,192  11,965  13,613  13,815  14,282  14.800
IncremenW  Operating Revenues
- in current terms                           2,360   7,558  16,246  28,658  47,883  61,966  70,164  80,500  92,722
- In consUant terms                          2,070   5,920  11,567  18,549  28,176  33,159  34,121  35,589  37,266
NET BENEFITS                                  (3,312)  (3,247) (13,262)  (7,828)  9,220  15,904  16,762  18,049  19,493
Internal Rate of Return                      28.19%



Economic Rate of Return        1990    1991    1992   1993   1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
Deflator                       0.86    1.00    1.14    1.28    1.40    1.54    1.70    1.87    2.06    2.26    2.49
Cap. Ex. (ess dties & Taxes - 10i%)
- in current terms                           4,133   6,873  24522  25,286  10,694   6,127   6,560   6,633   6,65
- deflated capital costs                     3,626   5,383  17,460  16,367   6,293   3,278   3.190   2,913   2,675
x Incremental Operating Costs
- in current tems (essinc. Tax)              2,061     355   2,796   8,775  16,349  20,770  23,721  27,214  31,077
- in constantetrms                            1,806    278   1,990   5,60   9,620  11,111  11,536  12,031  12,490
Incremental Operaing Revenues
- in current terms                            2,360   7,558  16,246  28,658  47,883  61,96  70,164  80,500  92,722
- in constant terms                           2,070   5,920  11,567  18,549  28,176  33,159  34,121  35,589  37,6
NET BENEFITS                                  (3,364)   259  (7,883)  (3,497) 12,263  18,770  19,396  20,625  22,100
Economic Rate of Reurm                        54.13%



SensMt Analysis                1990    191    1992    193    1994   1995   199        1"7    198    1999   2000
1. With fIO% IreasinCap. Exp.
Cap. Ex +10% In constant terms               4,432   6,579  21,340  20,004   7,691   4,000   3,899   3,584   3,270
Net beneffts                                (3.715)  (3,84S) (15,202)  (9,647)  8,520  15,540  16,407  17,723  19,196
| IRR                                         22.64%
| Cap. Ex +10% iconscant tems                  3,98   5.921  19,206  18,003   6,922   30    309   3.226   2,943
Net bnefits                                   (3.727)   (279)  (9,62   (5.134) 11,634  18,442  19,077  20,332  21.833
Eco. Rate of Reurn                          45.01%
1 With 20% increase In Cap. Exp.
Cap. Ex +20% in constua terms                4,834   7,177  23,280  21822   8.390   4,370   4,253   3,910   3,567
Net benefits                                (4,118)  (4,444) (17,142) (11,465)  7,821  15,176  16,053  17,397  18,898
IRR                                         17.93%
Cap. Ex .20% In constant terms               4,351   6,459  20,952  19,640   7,551   3,933   3,828   3,519   3,210
Net benefits                                (4,089)   (818) (11,375)  (6,770) 11,005  18,115  18,758  20,039  21.565
Eco. Rate of Retun                          37.70%
2. With 10% Increase in Oper. Exp.
Oper. Ex i10%Inconstantterms                 1,944    596   2,533   6,499  10,817  12,472  12,917  13,459  13,970
Net benefits                                (3,500)    (60)  (8,426)  (4.316) 11,067  17,409  18,014  19,197  20,620
Eco. Rate of Return                         47.53%
3. With 10% Increase In Oper. Revenues
Revenues +10% In constant terms              2,277   6,512  12,724  20,404  30,994  36,475  37,533  39,148  40,992
Net benefIs                                 (3,157)   851  (6,727)  (1,642) 15,081  22.06   22,808  24,164  25,827
Eco. Rate of Retun                          69.61%



4. With a 20% non-collections rate
Incremental Revenues -20% In current terms   1,888   6,047  12,997  22,926  38,307  49,589  56,131  64,400  74,177
,   Incremental Revenues in constant terms       1,656   4,736   9,254  14,840  22,541  26,527  27,297  28,471  29,813
o  Net benefits                                 (3,726)  (4,431) (15,575) (11,538)  3,584   9,273   9,937  10,931  12,040
IRR                                          6.11%
Net benefits                                (3,778)   (925) (10,197)  (7.207)  6,628  12,138  12,571  13,507  14,647
x  ERR                                          26.08%
5. With a 25% non-collections rate
Incremental Revenues -20% in current terms   1,770   5,669  12,185  21,493  35,913  46,490  52,623  60,375  69,541
Incremental Revenues in constant terms       1,552   4,440   8,675  13,912  21.132  24,869  25,591  26,692  27,949
Net benerds                                  (3,829)  (4,727) (16.154) (12,465)  2,175   7,615   8,231   9,152  10,176
IRR                                          0.10%
Netbeneffts                                 (3,882)  (1,221) (10,775)  (8,134)  5,219  10,480  10,865  11,728  12,784
ERR                                          19.20%
6 Traffic growth down 10%
Incremental Revenues In current terms        2,341   7,455  15,939  27,983  46,503  59,850  67,394  76,943  88,184
Incremental Revenues inconstant terns        2,054   5,839  11,348  18,113  27,364  32,016  32,774  34,016  35,442
Net benefits                                (3,326)  (3,321) (14,312)  (8,915)  8,478  14,920  15,588  16,654  17,849
IRR                                          23.79%
Net benefits                                (3,422)     95  (9,115)  (5,001) 11,713  17,537  17,956  18,949  20,146
ERR                                         46.59%



7 Traffic growth down 20%
Incremental Revenues in current terms      2,323   7,354  15,640  27,333  45,183  57,828  64,796  73,638  84,008
N   Incremental Revenues in constant terms      2,038   5,760  11,136  17,692  26,587  30,935  31,511  32,555  33,764
0   Net benefits                               (3.341)  (3,392) (14,507)  (9,301)  7,762  13,915  14,406  15,278  16,258
IRR                                        20.77%
*   Not beneits                                (3,478)   (65)  (9,428)  (5,543) 10,774  16,266  16,532  17,325  18,285
x
a   ERR                                        41.80%
8 Trafi growth down 20%
Non-Colections Down 20%
Net beneftis                               (3,728)  (4,544) (16,734) (12,840)  3,744   7,728   8,104   8,767   9,605
IRR                                         0.00%
Net benefits                               (3,888)  (1,217) (11,655)  (9,081)  5,456  10,079  10,230  10,814  11,632
ERR                                        15.91%



C                       iMJo                    A            To' 2     >        | _                                                                                           >Kii i  3O  GA  IBRD 237
)  V  > E <\ ~~~~~kUANi QA                       5              M       t     t      n     oa
\Bukoba                                                                                                                                                                    K IAENYA
RWANDA
RIURUNIJ
ZAIRE M                         S IE[ 8
on this mop do no t implK on the                                     z t r anga                        Y  i
TANZANIA                          40
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATION
PROJECT
Ira  PRIMARY EXC    A RNGE
A ~ SECONOAIVRYJERIRY EXCI{ANGE
MAIN MICROWAVE ROUTES/CA.PACIny
NEW EXCHANGE CAPACRY
Mpa   a                         (I 10                                                                                           D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR ES SAAIM
TOTrAL
MAIN ROADS
p-  kuv                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
mb                                                                                                   it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   EGION COMMTAl
NATIOl4Q CAPTtAL
REGION BOUNDARIE
-INTERNATIONA BOIRNDARIES
Th;. -p h., b-   pmp-d                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIAN
sod food, oo.                                32                                                            360                                                      -2-OCEAN
olt$ldl.lly~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -d  h   f., th. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
We-l ~~~~~~~~~~~~ d 'rh. W-ld B-k ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      JNLR  19



