Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22256
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24860)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 53.6 MILLION (US$ 74.45 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FORA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
June 5, 2001
Global ICT Group
Policy Division
Country Department 4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 18, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling
1 TShs = US$ 0.00113
US$ 1 = 884 Tshs
FISCAL YEAR
July 1   June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB               African Development Bank
ARPU              Average Revenue Per User
CCS               Capital Construction Supervision Unit
DANIDA            Danish International Development Agency
DEL               Direct Exchange Line
EMS               Express Mail Service
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
EU                European Union
FRR               Financial Rate of Return
GOT               Government of Tanzania
GSM               Global System Mobile
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
IDC               Institutional Development Consultancy
IFC               Intemational Finance Corporation
ISP               Intemet Service Provider
JICA              Japanese Development Agency
KFAED             Kwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MOCT              Ministry of Communication and Transport
PSRC              Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
PMU               Program Monitoring Unit
QAG               Quality Assurance Group
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
SIDA              Swedish Intemational Development Agency
SOBS              Service Order and Billing System
TCC               Tanzania Communications Commission
TPC               Tanzania Postal Corporation
TPTC              Tanzania Post and Telecommunication Corporation
TRP               Telecommunication Recovery Program
TTCL              Tanzania Telecommunications Company Ltd.
WLL               Wireless Local Loop
Vice President:    Calisto Madavo, AFR
Country Director:    James W. Adams, AFC04
Sector Director:    Mohsen Khalil, CITDR
Task Team Leader:    A. Shanmugarajah, CITPO



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   10
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Infornation                                                             19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  28
Map No. IBRD 23747
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002780                                       Project Name: TELECOM III
Team Leader: A. Shanmugarajah                             TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 4, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: TELECOM III                                    L/C/TFNumber: IDA-24860
Country/Department: TANZANIA                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: CC - Telecommunications & Informatics
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/01/1989                               Effective:  10/26/1993        01/10/1994
Appraisal:  05/30/1992                                MTR: 11/01/1995            07/28/1997
Approval:  04/27/1993                              Closing: 06/30/1999           12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOVT.OF TANZANIA/GOT
Other Partners:  Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), African Development Bank
(ADB), Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), European Union
(EU), Japanese Development Agency (JICA), and Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (KFAED)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Calisto Madavo                             Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     James W. Adams                             Francis Colaco
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Forestier                         Robert Hindle
Team Leader at ICR:   A. Shanmugarajah                          Ann Ishee
ICR Primary Author:   Yann P. Burtin
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Third Telecommrunications project was part of a Telecommunication Recovery Program (TRP) that
was identified by the Government of Tanzania (GOT), the Tanzania Post and Telecommunication
Corporation (TPTC) and various donors. The TRP of US$220 million provided capital investment to (i)
expand telecommunication services to subscribers in urban and rural areas; (ii) rehabilitate the existing
network to improve quality of service and TPTC's profitability; and (iii) modernize the sector's legal and
regulatory framework and institutional arrangements.
The project objectives as described in the Staff Appraisal Report were as follows: (i) to establish a market
oriented policy and regulatory framework, to introduce private sector participation in non-basic services in
the near term, and develop an action plan to secure private investment in basic services; (ii) to facilitate
commercialization and corporatization of TPTC, and build its institutional capacity; and (iii) to eliminate
existing bottlenecks in the availability of telecommunication services, particularly to business subscribers,
so as to satisfy the most urgent demand and foster the development of other sectors.
The project was designed to build on the implementation and lessons learned under the First and Second
Telecommunication Projects (Credits 1173-TA and 1810-TA respectively). The main lessons learned from
these projects were: (i) upfront procurement work allows supervision to concentrate on basic institutional
issues; and (ii) institutional restructuring of the Tanzania Post and Telecommunication Corporation
(TPTC) is necessary in order to improve financial performance and to implement successfully the physical
components.
The project objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy at the time which emphasized
improved efficiency in public sector management and the creation of an appropriate legal and regulatory
environment for private sector development.  The project was also consistent with the Bank's
telecommunications strategy, which called for promoting the growth of telecommunications services by
creating an enabling environment for private sector participation, and supporting capital investment
projects in areas where piivatization is not immediately possible and where the lack of telecommunication
services is a key constraint to the development of other sectors.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's implementation coincided with a decade of change of approach in the telecommunication
sector, putting a greater emphasis on private sector participation and competition. After the restructuring
of TPTC (e.g., splitting it into Tanzania Postal Corporation-TPC and Tanzania Telecommunications
Company Ltd.-TTCL), the establishment of the regulatory body (Tanzania Communications
Commission-TCC), and the adoption of a new telecommunications policy highlighting the new role of
TTCL in a competitive environment, GOT requested assistance to undertake the privatization of TTCL.
3.3 Original Components:
The original components of the project as described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were the
following:
-2 -



1. Policy and Regulatory Framework (US$1.] million). Technical assistance was to be made available
to the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MOCT): (i) to assess current sector structure,
review the government strategy, identify options for private sector involvement and competition and
define an implementation plan with clear milestones; (ii) to execute the implementation plan; and (iii) to
carry out training for MOCT and regulatory staff.
2. Institutional Development and Project Implementation (US$5.4 million). Technical assistance was
to be made available to TPTC: (i) to carry out the studies required to restructure TPTC (e.g., establish
separate entities for postal and teleconmmunication activities), and define the organizational structure
for the telecommunication entity; (ii) strengthen the TTCL's corporate organization, including
operations, financial planning and marketing activities; (iii) to provide training to TTCL, TPC and
TCC's staff and develop courses at the staff college; and (iv) to retain an external fnrm to be
accountable for procurement and installation of new works under the program (in order to increase
TPTC's implementation capacity). In addition, this component financed a new financial management
system for TTCL.
3. Rehabilitation and Expansion ($67.95 million). Investment lending was made available to TPTC to
purchase the necessary equipment to: (i) rehabilitate existing facilities; (ii) supply, install and
commission of new exchanges; (iii) expand long distance transmission links; (iv) expand the junction
network in Dar-es-Salaam using radio link and fiber optical systems; (v) supply small capacity radio
link systems in rural areas; and (vi) provide telephone instrument vehicles and ancillary equipment.
The project components were directly related to the project objectives, and were designed to address the
major challenges facing the sector's development, such as a legal and regulatory framework that did not
allow for private sector entry and an incumbent on the verge of bankruptcy, due to extremely poor
management from 1986 to 1990.
The network rehabilitation and expansion component was large and complex, requiring strong project
management to avoid delays in the implementation. Taking into account the lessons leamed in the First and
Second Telecommunication Projects, and to ensure that TPTC would have adequate capacity to effectively
manage this component, the disbursement for the equipment portion was to be done in two phases, and two
units were established: (i) the Capital Construction Supervision Unit (CCS) whose responsibilities were
technical in nature and included, among others, supervising and coordinating the planning, tendering,
contracting and execution of planned activities under the program; and (ii) the Program Monitoring Unit
(PMU) responsible for coordinating the whole TRP including training, technical assistance, donor funding,
and project accounting at the corporate level.
A shortcoming of project design was the lack of a clear implementation and flow-of-funds arrangements
after TPTC was split, and when the postal and telecommunication entities were established. This resulted
in delays on the implementation of the network rehabilitation and expansion component, and in the creation
of three special accounts and 19 different disbursement categories/sub-categories on the Bank's side.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of the project components. However, rapid changes in the industry taking
place during implementation quickly rendered the project as designed less relevant, since TTCL was in no
position, as a public enterprise, to respond to the technological and market developments. To rectify this
shortcoming, upon Government's request during the mid-term review, it was agreed to accelerate TTCL's
privatization. A new team leader, with the necessary expertise, was assigned to the project on Bank's side,
and savings derived from the declining cost of telecommunication equipment to be purchased under the
project were assigned to finance the advisory services necessary to develop this new agenda.
- 3 -



This was achieved at the policy level through the financing of consultancies and study tours to assist GOT
in establishing a current and well developed Telecommunication Policy focusing at enhancing the sector
development and TTCL's performance (e.g., national policy workshop and the appointment of a policy
adviser in MOCT). In addition, the project financed consultancies that focused on: (i) TTCL's financial
strengthening (e.g., international audit, TTCL financial adviser, pre-privatization restructuring study); and
(ii) TTCL's sale to an international strategic partner (e.g., Financial and Legal Advisers).
On the Government's side, it was agreed that the Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC), would
manage the overall transaction process in close collaboration with TCC, TTCL and donors. A dedicated
Steering Committee, chaired by MOCT, was established to build consensus within GOT, and provide
strategic directions to PSRC on TTCL's privatization. The Bank provided assistance to the steering
committee in financing key studies and ensuring donors' coordination and feedback on strategic decisions.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project pre-dates the introduction of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) process at the World Bank
and quality at entry was thus not evaluated by QAG. Nonetheless, the quality of the project at entry is
satisfactory when evaluated by prevailing standards. The project also pre-dates the introduction of the
logical framework approach; therefore, this was not included in the SAR. However, Annex 2-4 of the SAR
provided a list of performance indicators for TPTC, that were monitored during project implementation and
form the basis for the data presented in Annex 1.
Additionally, measures were taken to ensure that the project would be ready for implementation upon
effectiveness. The selection of the consultants for the efficiency audit and financial review of TPTC, the
appointment of a financial controller for TPTC, with adequate qualifications and experience, and the
commencement of procurement of a comprehensive billing system for TPTC were conditions of project
effectiveness.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated satisfactory with respect to the achievement of the objectives. GOT adopted a
policy and an adequate legal and regulatory framework geared towards increased private sector
participation. Significant liberalization was introduced in various segments of the sector, and several
private operators are providing basic, mobile, data, paging, internet, pay-phone and other value-added
services. The cellular market is growing rapidly with five mobile operators (Zantel, Mobitel, Vodacom,
Tritel and TTCL). The mobile subscriber base surpassed the number of fixed subscribers at the end of the
year 2000 (see graph below), and was estimated to be around 250,000 at the end of March 2001, compared
to 2,000 at the end of 1995 (the first mobile license was awarded to Mobitel on October 1994). As a result,
the overall teledensity - fixed and mobile subscribers - has increased from 0.3 in 1993 to 1.2 lines per 100
inhabitants in March 2001.
Following TPTC's restructuring, major investments made under the TRP led to an increase of 81 percent of
total number of TTCL subscribers (from 91,000 in 1995 to 165,000 by July 2000). TTCL's productivity
and exchange capacity increased, as the number of staff per 1,000 direct exchange line (DEL) decreased to
26 in July 2000 from 53 in 1995, and its exchange capacity increased to 215,000 in July 2000, from
128,000 in 1995. Despite the improvement of the quantitative indicators, operational performance
remained below appraisal targets.
-4 -



At mid-term review, due to TTCL's poor financial and operational performance, the government and the
Bank agreed to accelerate TTCL's privatization and promote competition in telecommunication service
provision (e.g., mobile, data, internet).  Following an extensive consultation process with all key
stakeholders, led by the Steering Committe, high quality advisors were recruited to assist GOT in
privatizing TTCL through an international competitive bidding process. On June 25, 2000, Detecon/MSI
offered US$120 million for a 35 percent stake in TTCL and committed to have more than 800,000
connected lines before the end of the four-year exclusivity period. Negotiations were finalized in February
2001, and the privatization of TTCL was considered a success by all stakeholders. More details on
TTCL's transaction are given in section 4.2.
Main line and Mobile Penetration
*  Main line penetration (%)   a  Mobile penetration (%)
D    0.7 -
C    0.5
°    0.4-
fi0.3 -            e                             /
0.2 -
G)   0.1
0
O-,        w       . 4,         .      ...
Technical assistance to TPC somewhat strengthened its financial and operational performance. In 1999,
TPC recorded a profit before tax of about US$0.76 million, and an increase in counter business and
expedited mail of 13.7 and 16 percent respectively, compared to 1998. In addition, TPC's operational
performance for the years 1997-1999, under the performance contract with GOT, was highly satisfactory,
and its speed, profitability and security indicators were above the contract targets. Institutional capacity
was considered satisfactory for the following institutions: MOCT and PSRC (refer to section 4.5 for
details).
4.2 Outputs by components:
Policy and Regulatory Framework (US$4.0 million). Under this component, technical assistance
provided by the Bank helped the government in making significant progress in restructuring the sector. In
December 1993, the post and telecommunication services were separated and established as limited liability
companies (TPC and TTCL), and an independent legal entity responsible for the regulation of postal and
telecommunications services,  TCC, was established.   This step was followed by a significant
liberalization of the sector.
- 5-



Tazania - Telecommunications Sewr - 1993                  Tanzania - Telecommunications Sectr - 2000
ThInisy for COmmunkationS  PoIl                         X Im] T tP
._._._._._._....................  _ andTransport  ......._....  _ !                                  p y
' Rbon                  r~~~~~~TSHnCmmubbm         Rtidon
Reuaio                          IT       1       I Caaata
Nelwo&k                                                    Ndw
Tanzrna                              Otqon            Tn    Z..    C              Dft           Otun
Posts and                                           .. d                                         lnteratio. r
Telecomwms,caoL                                                 (ZCt_VoM"
Long  nu                   P Prn
This neDoiyadrglaoyfaeoklidta                   e  Lonaion  Ao th  deeopetifpivt=sco
(1OO0%oGovt)                           LOCal                                                       Lca
-.          -      -   -.. . .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .  . .. .. ..  ( o          L
VAS      35hPorao~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I               ------
PISSISoIICioar for Publi Tec m          n Sen s            Prsoaon
This new policy and regulatory framework laid the foundation for the development of private sector
participation in the teleconmmunication sector. Below is a brief sector review, which highlights GOT's
achievements.
Basic Services - Two operators have been licensed to provide basic telecommunications services: TTCL,
the incumbent national operator, and Zantel. TTCL has a nationwide license (including Zanzibar), as
opposed to Zantel which has the right to operate in Zanzibar only. As of July 2000, TTCL had 165,000
connected lines and an e cchange capacity of 215,000 lines. The rapid growth observed is due to
investments under the TRP assisted by several donors. Zantel has began to roll-out its network starting
with mobile services in Zanzibar (Pemba island is not yet covered) and its international gateway. Zantel
has approximately 2,000 subscribers and has not rolled-out its network yet. Details on TTCL's
privatization are highlighted on page 8.
Mobile Cellular Services - At present, the market structure is characterized by the presence of five
operators: TTCL, Mobitel, Tritel, Vodacom and Zantel (coverage limited to Zanzibar and Pemba islands).
Their original licenses were geographically defined, but are now expanded to the whole country. Transition
to digital is encouraged by the authorities (the existing providers of analogue services will have to migrate
to digital by 2003). Current market size as of March 2001 was around 250,000 subscribers, distributed
mainly between the current market leader Mobitel (124,000 subscribers), Vodacom (93,000 subscribers
after seven months of operation), Tritel (16,000 subscribers) and Zantel (17,000 customers). The number
of subscribers will continue to grow fast in this segment (growth rate from 1998 to 2000 was 65 percent
per year).
Payphone services - TTCL has a monopoly of payphone provision over fixed lines. However, ACG
Telesystems (Adesemi) and Jupiter have entered into resale agreements with TTCL for the provision of
payphone services. In September 2000, the number of payphones installed was more than 1,100
distributed between ACG (600 pay-phones), TTCL (400 payphones), and Jupiter (100 payphones). In the
last two years, no growth has been noticed in this segment. In July 2000, Adesemi was put under
provisional liquidation and the liquidator is currently looking for potential buyers. The main reasons for
this negative sector development seems to be linked to (i) inadequate financial structure, (ii) poor
management and (iii) unfavorable contract/license terms and conditions (e.g. tariffs identical to end-user,
royalties).
-6 -



Data Communications - Three operators (SITA Group, Wilken Afsat Tanzania Ltd, DATEL Tanzania
Ltd) have been licensed in 1995 and 1996 for data transmission. All three data providers have the right to
install their own international gateway in order to route their international traffic. In 2000, three additional
companies have been licensed (including TTCL) and are currently rolling-out their network. The
introduction of competition has led to significant price reductions for leased lines and increased service
availability (64Kbts/s leased lines price decreased by a factor of four in few months).
Radio Paging - Four operators (ACG Ltd, Call System Ltd, Beep Me, TTCL ) have been licensed for the
provision of radio paging services. It appears that growth in paging has suffered from the rapid growth and
price competition in the mobile sector. Market decline should limit this service to a small niche of
professionals in service business.
Internet Services Providers - The Internet was introduced in Tanzania in March 1996. As of September
2000, 12 Internet Service Providers (ISPs) have acquired a license and are currently operating in Dar Es
Salaam and countrywide. The current market size is very difficult to estimate and is growing rapidly, with
most of the customers concentrated in Dar Es Salaam. Fees and royalties levied on this segment are high
(license fee of US$2,000, and annual royalties of US$10,000), and can be considered the main impediment
to major growth.
Institutional Development and Project Implementation (US$5.8 million).   Under this component,
TPTC's restructuring was carried out, and significant technical assistance was provided to strengthen
TTCL's financial and operational performance, and to build institutional/human capacity within TTCL and
TPC. TTCL's operational performance remained weak, with persistent delays in connecting new capacity,
despite a significant increase of revenues (from US$43.17 million in 1994 to US$137.77 million in 1999).
TTCL's financial performance was short on meeting targeted indicators (see Annex 1) which resulted in the
noncompliance with some legal and financial covenants during the first years of implementation. In 1998,
following TTCL's debt restructuring exercise in coordination with GOT/Ministry of Finance (MOF),
TTCL generated a profit for the first time since its incorporation. The collection rate did not improve due
to delays in the service order and billing system (SOBS) implementation and lack of management directives
on outstanding payments, bad debts and collection management.
Technical assistance to TPC has had a visible impact on TPC's operational and marketing activities.
TPC's financial and operational performance was strengthened since its creation as a self-standing
organization in 1993. In 1999, TPC recorded a profit before tax of about US$0.76 million, an increase in
counter business and expedited mail of 13.7 and 16 percent respectively, compared to 1998. On the
operational side, TPC's performance for the years 1997-1999 under the performance contract with GOT
was highly satisfactory. The speed, profitability and security indicators were above contract targets.
Network Rehabilitation and Expansion (US$64.17 million). The implementation of this component was
delayed until the end of 1995 partly due to finalization of the financing arrangements with donors and
partly to the establishment of the successor entities for TPTC (TCC, TPC & TTCL). Since then, the
implementation of this component was satisfactory. With the exception of the Wireless Local Loop (WLL)
contract, which experienced delays in implementation and was not completed by the project's closing date,
all of the planned activities were completed within the allocated budget, and the overall performance of the
networks has improved, as evidenced by the following:
*   Exchange capacity increased by about 67 percent from 128,000 in 1995 to 215,000 by the end of
July 2000.
-7 -



*  Exchange connections increased by about 81 percent from 91,000 connected DELs in 1995 to
165,000 connected DELs by the end of June 2000.
*  Incoming CCR for international calls remained low at 41 percent in July 2000 compared to 25
percent in 1995.
TTCL Privatization. Having experienced persistent problems with TTCL meeting the targeted financial
and operational performance, and due to rapid changes in the industry, the Government of Tanzania
decided to accelerate the privatization of TTCL. To respond to GOT's request, IDA restructured its project
team and agreed to reallocate funds to assist in the formulation of a National Telecommunications Policy
document (approved by GOT in August 1997); and financed the legal and financial advisors that worked
on the privatization of TTCL.
In February 2001, a consortium comprised of Detecon, Germany (a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom) and
Mobile Systems Interational Cellular (MSI) of the Netherlands has concluded a US$120 million deal to
buy 35 percent stake in TTCL and took over management control. The consortium has paid the amount
directly to TTCL in the form of capital increase (capitalization) putting the company in a position to
expand rapidly. The consortium has committed to increasing the number of telephone lines to 800,000
from the present 165,000 during the four-year exclusivity on basic services (450,000 subscriber lines out of
the 800,000 will be fixed), and to build a new GSM network. The privatized company will be granted new
licenses for basic telephone services, cellular, data, radio paging and intemet provider services. Of the
remaining 65 percent of TTCL, 14 percent will be offered to intemational financial institutions, 10 percent
to local groups and 5 percent will be given to TTCL staff (see section 10 for information on IFC
pre-privatization investment in TTCL). The government will retain a 36 percent stake in the company,
which will be progressively floated on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange. The timeframe for these
transactions has not yet been decided.
Other bids included: (i) a bid from a consortium of South Africa's Vodacom with World Tel offered US$66
million and more than 560 percent increase in subscribers in three years; and (ii) a bid from Canada's
Sasktel for US$60.5 million, and more than 380 percent increase of subscribers before 2003. The private
sector response for this flagship privatization was above stakeholders, World Bank Group and Advisers'
expectations both in terms of dollar amount and of the roll-out obligations.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at the time of completion was 36%, which is considered satisfactory.
The methodology used in the ICR is the same as the one used in the SAR (estimated ERR in the SAR was
51%).
The economic analysis does not include any of the large economic benefits which are expected from either
the privatization of the incumbent or the development of competition in the sector, as it is difficult to
quantify. Some of them are worth highlighting here:
Modernization of the network and improvement of service qualitv. With implementation of the five-year
program, the network and services in the country have been improved through the modernization,
rehabilitation and expansion of existing facilities (this applies for TTCL and TPC). Due to the low
connection rate of additional customers to TTCL's network, excess exchange capacity installed during the
project did not generate any revenue yet.
-8 -



Improved access to rural and peri-urban areas. The TRP included rural telecommunication projects in
selected regions (deployment of the WLL).
Fosterin-a Private Participation. The project increased the level of private participation in the sector
through the successful privatization of TTCL. The establishment of a regulator, whose major functions are
to regulate and monitor the telecommunication sector and foster competition through licensing of operators,
helped build investor's confidence.
Job creation and emplovee welfare.  New employment opportunities were generated through the
development of new services. Training schemes for the career development of employees in different
disciplines have been developed and continue as part of the daily operation. TTCL operates a Staff College
in Dar es Salaam, which offers various tailored courses in the fields of telecommunications technology,
accounting, marketing and administration to meet specific needs of both the company and its employees. In
addition, the company continues to train and encourage the career development of disabled persons.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return at the time of completion was 26% (SAR projection was 27%). TTCL, TPC
and TCC remain profitable companies which generate operating surplus sufficient to meet its investment,
tax and debt service obligations.
In both ERR and FRR calculations, the net cash flow was used instead of the (projected) incremental cash
flow in SAR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Government of Tanzania, in particular MOCT, has demonstrated its ability to implement a
comprehensive telecommunication sector reform. This has been illustrated through the adoption of a
pro-competitive sector policy, the establishment of a new legal framework, licenses, and the endorsement of
a well-thought strategy and action plan for TTCL Privatization.  The Parastatal Sector Reform
Commission (PSRC), key actor in TTCL privatization, has developed capacity at handling complex and
large privatization deals. Its interaction with International Investment Banks and other advisers will
positively affect its ability to handle future complex privatization transactions. The development impact for
these institutions can be considered highly satisfactory.
TCC was established during the project implementation. The Bank financed training of staff and targeted
consultancies on specific regulatory issues in order to develop its capacity. However, several intemal
restructurings occurred, and key staff trained under the project were either moved or removed. Since its
establishment, more than twenty licenses have been granted to private operators for various services (fixed,
mobile, data, ISP). Despite these results, TCC's regulatory capacity and arrangements are considered
extremely weak, since there is a lack of transparency in its decision-making (e.g., decisions are often
subject to political interference). Private sector operators involved in Tanzania have raised several issues
on the role and capacity of TCC to regulate in an efficient and transparent manner the postal and
telecommunications sectors (some of these issues were brought to court). The institutional development
impact of TCC is rated unsatisfactory.
-9-



TTCL's capacity to design and implement an ambitious rehabilitation and expansion investment program,
and to carry out the procurement of goods under international competitive bidding was improved.
However, weak results were observed on aspects related to financial management. In particular, the
implementation of the billing system observed several delays, and management was also unable to improve
standards and procedures to increase debt and current billing collection, which are still far below agreed
targets.
TPC has developed an impressive managerial capacity.  TPC benefited from  several international
consultations and consultancies financed under the project (to much less extent than TTCL), and its staff
have been trained and mobilized to achieve set goals and program. The financial and operational
performance of TPC remains strong since its separation from telecommunication and creation as a
self-standing organization in 1993. In an effort to offer high quality services that cope with the changes of
time and customer's demand, TPC has recently developed new products and services, such as priority mail,
e-mail services, post cargo, post giro system, EMS courier services and money fax extended to the district
level.
In addition, during the third quarter of 2000, TPC began discussions with PSRC in order to expand the
commercialization process and improve its efficiency and profitability. Recommendations to be discussed
at a workshop with all stakeholders will take TPC to the next levels of commercialization and preparedness
for its privatization, including the conversion of TPC into a joint stock company, removal of all subsidies
on input and output prices, capital and debt restructuring. The institutional development impact on TPC is
rated as highly satisfactory, making it the institution that by far benefited the most from this project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation coincided with an unprecedented "information revolution" which affected the overall
telelcommunications markets. The drivers of this information revolution (decline in the cost of transmitting
information, the increase in the power of computing, and the shift from analog to digital information
technologies) translated int-) economic trends that led to the convergence of the once unseparated industry
of broadcasting and telecommunications. Communication and information services were delinked from
their underlying delivery infrastructure: telephone services can be delivered through coaxial cable and
wireless networks, and data services and intemet access through telephone lines. As a result of these
changes, new competitors emerged from unexpected directions. In addition, the new technology profoundly
altered the industry cost structure and led to the end of the natural monopoly. The transformation of the
telecommunications market has ocurred in several dimensions, such as:
1. Demand structure - only 10 years ago "fixed" voice telephony dominated the revenues of all
telecommunication companies. Today unprecedent growth and demand for new services (e.g., mobile
and internet) has changed the overall structure of demand in the sector.
2. Convergence of services - convergence has not only occurred between telecommunications,
broadcasting, cable television and the internet, but also within segments of the telecommunications
market; for example, mobile telephony is now a substitute for conventional local telephone service for
many customers.
3. Industry structure - there has been a fundamental shift in the industry structure in many countries
toward a multi-operator environment; in addition, increasingly governments no longer held a monopoly
on information, nor could they compete effectively with the private sector in delivering goods and
services.
- 10 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Govermment's commitment contributed to the overall success of the telecommunication and postal
reforrns, in particular the privatization transaction. Prior to TTCL's privatization, GOT (a) made extensive
efforts to build inclusive consensus on the objectives and specifics of TTCL privatization transaction
amongst key stakeholders (led by the Steering Committee); (b) removed all major identified qualifications
from TTCL's audited accounts and approved the financial restructuring of TTCL, reducing its debts from
around US$180 million to zero, as of September 30, 1998; and (c) supported TTCL's agreement on some
redundancies with the unions.
On the other hand, some factors subject to Government/Agency control have impeded sector development,
such as: (i) prior to privatization, TCC granted a mobile license to the Consortium Vodacom under
questionable circumstances and without consulting PSRC, the Government's adviser for TTCL
privatization, or the World Bank. This action slowed down the privatization process and reduced TTCL's
attractiveness; (ii) TCC has always levied fees from the postal and telecommunication operators far in
excess to what can be observed in similar countries - until these fees decrease to reflect international
practices, they will be an impediment for sector development.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Following the restructuring of TPTC, three PMUs were established. All PMUs performed well regarding
the implementation of the physical component of the project. Procurement and disbursement problems
arised when TCC's PMU took over the responsibility for hiring and disbursing funds for all consultant
services related to TTCL privatization, these problems did not affect directly TTCL's privatization
implementation schedule, but they created tension between the parties involved.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Third Telecommunications Credit had an original imnplementation period of 6 years. A one and a half
year extension was granted until December 31, 2000, mainly due to delays as a result of: (i) the postponed
effectiveness; (ii) the late start on the implementation of the physical component resulting from the
restructuring of TPTC; and (iii) the incorporation of TTCL's privatization activities. TTCL financed the
unfinished portion of the contracts for the Wireless Local Loop and for the Service Order and Billings
System, which experienced delays in implementation and were expected to be completed after the project's
closing date.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project's achievements is highly likely. The sector reform achieved under the
project has allowed for and will continue to increase private participation in the sector.  The
newly-privatized TTCL is committed to continue to expand its network (e.g. increase the number of
telephone lines to 800,000 from the present 165,000 during the four-year exclusivity on basic services),
improve service quality and rebalance its tariffs. The Government intends to continue to promote fair
competition in the sector, and the presence of multiple private players in the telecommunication sector will
ensure a steady growth in service provision.
- 1 1-



The achievements and the development impact resulting from the restructuring of the postal sector have
been impressive and are highly likely to be sustainable. With the assistance of key postal consultants, TPC
has been able to leverage its national network of postal offices. The next step for TPC is to decrease its
debt burden inherited from its administrative past and access a new status of totally independent and
autonomous company. This status will allow more flexibility for market oriented strategy implementation,
adequate tariff policy and aggressive investment choices, which are a requirement in a continuously more
international and competitive environment.
All of the above should continue the progress made under the project to improve the efficiency and
accessibility of postal and telecommunications services in Tanzania.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Dialogue on further IDA support to the sector, especially on building further the capacity of the regulatory
authority, has been on-going. Two projects managed in coordination with the Bank are currently
addressing the weak regulatory framework: (i) Privatization and Private Sector Development Credit and
(ii) Modernizing Telecommunication Regulation and Bill, a PPIAF Grant.
In addition, the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), which was involved in the financing of
the original TRP, is currently carrying out the second phase of an assessment of the regulatory function in
Tanzania to address existing regulatory issues and strengthen TCC's institutional capacity.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Bank's performance during the project identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. During
the identification and preparation, the Bank maintained a close dialogue with the GOT and TPTC to ensure
that the project objectives were directly in line with the Government's development priorities.
Previous Bank's involvement (First and Second Telecommunications Projects in Tanzania - Credits
1173-TA and 1810-TA respectively) helped to define realistic objectives, performance indicators and
adequate project design. The Credit amount and project implementation period were well estimated at the
time of appraisal, although the delay in Credit effectiveness was not anticipated. With regards to
performance indicators, physical indicators were realistic while the financial indicators were overly
ambitious given past poor financial performance.
However, sector developments not foreseen during the project preparation affected major elements of the
project design. The quick restructuring of TPTC, resulting in three separate entities created institutional
arrangement problems (establishment of three PMUs with little procurement and financial capacity). As
the privatization of TTCL was included in the project after the mid-term review, the risks associated to this
transaction were not identified at appraisal. Finally, building (telecommunications) regulatory capacity
was at its infancy in developing and industrialized countries. Regulatory arrangements, level of assistance
and risks associated were not adequately identified.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank's performance during the project supervision was satisfactory. Regular supervision missions were
carried out generally every six months up to FY 1997. Thereafter, due to budget limitations, supervision
missions were carried out annually. Implementation progress was adequately reported and problems were
identified. More efforts could have been made in reinforcing the capacity of the PMUs.
- 12 -



The Bank demonstrated flexibility in approving extensions of the Credit closing date and in allocating
unused funds to support the privatization transaction. In addition, the project benefited from the skill mix
and experience of three tasks managers, that led the project through the different phases of implementation
(investment, corporate and financial restructuring, regulation/privatization), which had a positive impact on
the project achievements. Continuity was ensured through the presence of key staff within the core project
team during project supervision. Country office staff contributed greatly in providing advice and assistance
to the Borrower and the Project Team on a regular basis for a variety of issues, for example procurement
and audit guidelines, and follow-up on TTCL's privatization transaction.
In late 1996, the GOT/MOCT, in consultation with the Bank project team, concluded that financial
performance of TTCL was unlikely to be achieved as originally envisaged and that the privatization of
TTCL needed to be vigorously pursued. Accordingly, extensive efforts were made by GOT and the Bank
Group to increase active participation and commitment of all stakeholders: GOT, MOCT, Steering
Committee, TTCL, donors and private investors. This resulted in broad consensus among all parties on the
objectives and specifics of TTCL privatization transaction. Although the transaction timetable was
revised several times, the privatization proceeds and results (i.e. roll-out obligations) have been above
expectations. GOT, TTCL and the donors have stressed the extent of the harmonious and fruitful working
relationship, which the Bank Group maintained with all concerned parties under the project.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The closing of this project is a milestone in over thirteen
years of cooperation with GOT in developing telecommunications in Tanzania.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance during the project preparation was satisfactory.  The Borrower's active
participation during project preparation improved the overall design (e.g. identification of key investrnents
and performance indicators). Also, GOT and TPTC took several steps to ensure the support of key
stakeholders to move forward the sector reform program by: (i) issuing a sector policy statement, (ii)
initiating actions to promulgate a new Telecommunications Act; and (iii) launching a public relations
campaign to inform all stakeholders on the objectives, expected outcomes and benefits of the reform
process.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's performance during the project implementation was satisfactory.  There was good
coordination between PSRC, which had overall responsibility for the privatization, the Steering Committee,
MOCT, TCC, TTCL and the Ministry of Finance. Many of the tasks were complex, such as TTCL's
financial restructuring, and credit is due to those who were involved.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Three implementing agencies were established under each entity resulting from TPTC's restructuring.
Given the high level of overall funding for the TRP (US$220 million) both TTCL and TPC did an excellent
job in efficiently managing the credit, counterpart and donors' financing and other grants. TCC's
implementation unit did not perform well due to lack of experience in Bank funded projects, high turnover
of TCC's staff (which resulted in poorly trained staff in Bank's procurement and disbursement guidelines),
and add-hoc procurement and disbursement responsibilities for managing the privatization advisers and
consultants.
- 13-



Procurement management of goods and large consultancies included in the Institutional Development
component and in the Rehabilitation and Expansion component were challenging. TTCL and TPC
effectively exploited ICB procedures and realized significant reduced equipment prices.
Audit reports were usually received on time. However, quality and timely response varied throughout the
project life. As a prerequisite for the privatization transaction, TTCL's Financial Statement and Balance
Sheet were audited by an International Auditor following IAS. Eleven major qualifications were identified
by the Auditors. Technical assistance was provided to address these qualifications and to identify financial
restructuring privatization pre-requirements.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
Overall Government's performance and participation in both preparation and implementation was
satisfactory. The Government requested Bank advice and assistance in most key aspects of sector reform
and accepted the strict rules of governance that came with it.  At Credit closing, the regulatory
arrangements remain unsatisfactory. It needs a fundamental re-think, the scope of which should go well
beyond the usual focus on capacity building and process.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons to be drawn from this project implementation experience are the following:
1. Much higher levels of service can be provided profitably even in low income environments with
weak regulatory capacity.
Low income countries: In Tanzania, fixed line and mobile subscriber growth has increased to
unprecedented levels due to high levels of unmet demand not only in main cities, but also in rural or
peri-urban areas (overall teledensity -fixed and mobile - has increased from 0.3 in 1993 to 1.2 lines per 100
inhabitants in March 2001). Despite an inadequate regulatory framework (see lesson learned #2), new
mobile operators have committed significant financial resources to the development of a state of the art
telecommunications infrastructure. To date, mobile operators remain profitable driven by the revenue
growth from new subscri- -rs. However, the decline of the monthly average revenue per user (ARPU)
toward a "natural" and sustainable ARPU in the country (and in the region) shows that cellular services
are reaching mass-market proportions (though "mass-market" here generally represents a small proportion
of the population).
Low income areas (rural and peri-urban): Slow growth and high costs have made extending access to
rural areas a particularly difficult issue, reflected in high urban-rural disparities in telecommunications
penetration. However, recent technological advances, rapid cost reductions, as well as market innovations
have created opportunities for increasing access to ICTs in remote and poor areas. Lower-cost equipment,
wireless systems, new methods for retailing, and the concept of community points of access have all made
conmmunications more accessible. This has been achieved in the project through the network rehabilitation
and expansion component with the deployment of the Wireless Local Loop in selected rural regions. At the
same time, the regulatory framework in Tanzania should be structurdd to offer incentives, and impose
requirements to extend service coverage to high-cost and peripheral areas.
2. Inadequate regulatory framework restricts rapid and sustainable development of competition.
Despite the entry of numerous private sector operators in the telecommunications market and the increase
in levels of service provision, many regulatory issues have considerably slowed down growth of the overall
telecommunications sector.   The major issues encountered included inadequate interconnection
agreements/directives and allocation of spectrum frequencies, high level of fees and royalties levied by
TCC, and absent or non-transparent regulatory oversight. Today, this inadequate regulatory framework
- 14 -



has: (i) constrained the growth of mobile operations (due to inadequate frequency allocation and
interconnection arrangements); (ii) slowed down the entry of new service providers in the Internet market;
and (iii) forced some existing pay-phone operators to exit the market. Due to its lack of expertise,
autonomy and pro-activity, TCC did not propose any concrete solutions that would resolve the above
problems. Several key actions need to be taken to ensure sustainable growth in the sector, such as: (i)
additional capacity building to TCC (this sub-component has been underestimated in the project); and (ii)
establishing systems and oversight processes to review the performance of the regulatory institution.
3. Flexibility about means and options of privatization is key to success, given the market and political
uncertainties surrounding the privatization of large infrastructures.
At mid-term review, discussions were held between GOT and Bank's representatives to evaluate TTCL's
privatization strategy options. Given the deteriorating market conditions, it was decided to opt for a
capitalization versus a traditional privatization approach. The capitalization process increased the interest
raised by private investors, the price paid for the equity stake to be sold, and the sector development impact
since all proceeds were reinvested in the company to support a major investment plan.
4. A public postal company can be efficient and profitable.
By implementing cost effective management rules with a compensation-profit link, the operator has been
able to maintain a high standard of postal public service, while developing new postal activities that allow
for the diversification of its revenue sources. The accessibility to postal services, a core characteristic of
public service mission, has been improved through a wide postal presence partly franchised. This
franchising tool appears worldwide as an adequate solution to respond to postal universal service
obligations particularly in rural areas. However, few countries have yet been able to implement it in such a
successful way as TPC. The development of new postal services, mostly based on new technologies, as
well as active debt management are conditions for TPC to succeed in a rapidly evolving environment,
where demand is more and more oriented towards postal hybrid and IT-based products and solutions.
5. Flexibility in supervision helps achieve objectives.
The sector reform agenda provided the framework for a sustained dialogue between the Government and
the World Bank.  The Government's response to rapid changes in the industry during project
implementation, and the World Bank's timely support played an important role on the project's satisfactory
outcome, as it enabled the change in project focus to establish a current and well developed
Telecommunication Sector Policy and to accelerate TTCL's privatization.
- 15-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
TTCL and TCC have prepared assessment reports on the project implementation, these are available in the
project files. Below is a summary prepared by the Ministry of Communications and Transport.
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
GOVERNMENT'S OFFICIAL ASSESSMENT OF
THE PROJECT'S IMPLEMENTATION
We are pleased to present our assessment on the project performance under three main headings,
i). Borrower's implementation status,
ii). Institutions (recipient) implementation status, and
iii). Bank implementation status.
BORROWER:
We are appreciating very much for the financing, cooperation and successful completion of the Third
Telecommunications Restructuring Project (TRP III) which was financed under the IDA Credit 2486 - TA.
The project aimed at implementing the main objectives as set out in the Terms of reference; these were,
restructuring and policy development of the communications sector. The specific objectives were,
expansion and modernization of the telecommunications network, establishment of the communications
regulatory body and enhancement of its capacity, and modemization of the Tanzania Postal Corporation's
operational systems.
i). Sector Restructuring andprivatization.
The Government through IDA assistance managed to implement the following; Firstly, communications
institutional restructuring programme was successfully done, whereby three entities were established,
namely, Tanzania Telecommunications Commission (TCC), Tanzania Telecommunications Company
(TTCL), and Tanzania Postal Corporation (TPC). Secondly, Sector liberalization strategy was developed
whereas non-basic services were provided competitively in both Telecommunications and Postal Services.
Thirdly, IDA    through  TRP  III project provided  financial assistance  for procurement of
telecommunications Policy Advisor, who helped the Ministry in the privatising the TTCL. And, Lastly, the
Credit enhanced the privatisation process of the forner TTCL.
ii). Policy Development.
The Ministry was successfully put in place the National Telecommunications Policy through the TRP III
project. Through IDA assistance, the Ministry managed to hold different consultative forums, whereby
constructive comments were harnessed towards formulation of the desired policy.
- 16-



Generally, the achievement of the above objectives were satisfactory and had very big positive impact in the
development of the sector.
INSTITUTIONS.
(a) Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TTCL)
The TRP III project implementation for TTCL started in 1994 with the main objectives of expanding and
modernizing the telecommunications network in the country.
The project also involved installation of Wireless Local Loop (WLL) telephone systems in the country
which began in 1998 and is to be completed in June, 2001. Regions involved in this project are Arusha,
Morogoro, Kilimanjaro, Tanga, Mara, Dodoma, Coast, Dar Es Salaam Zanzibar and Pemba, This project
as well as the Service Order and Billing System (SOBS) were supposed to be completed by December,
1999 but it has taken too long to resolve some of the pending issues for various reasons, including delays in
reaching agreements between some Contractors and the Client. This situation resulted into TTCL paying
5% retention money (USD 1,784,495) from its own resources for the two projects.
The execution of the IDA funded portion of the Telecommunications Restructuring Programme (TRP) has
been satisfactory and has enhanced efficiency to TTCL's operation, for instance, under service quality
indicator, the overall exchange capacity before the project 1992 was 114,770, target set for 2000 was
247,000 where the actual performance in the same year was 233,863. Connection lines increased from
81,306 in 1992 to 173,591, Working lines increased from 80,697 in 1992 to 170,987. Although, the targets
were not achieved in each item, the performance was satisfactory. It appears that the targets set were too
high in each item. The Telecommunications network performance in general has been improved with good
call completion rate, minimum fault rate and few customer complaints on billing and network performance.
About 75 - 80% of our population live in the rural areas and according to the 1997 National
Telecommunications Policy, more emphasis is given to the development of telecommunication services in
the rural areas. Statistically, the policy aims at attaining 6 telephones per 100 inhabitants (teledensity) by
the year 2020 from 0.32 telephones per 100 inhabitants in 1994. We expect that each village will be
provided with telecommunication facilities by the year 2020.
(b) Tanzania Communications Commission (TCC)
The TRP III project implementation for TCC started in August, 1994 with the main objective of enhancing
the regulator capacity in terms of equipment, consultancy and human resource development. The TRP III
project was a success and played an important role in the establishment and development of the regulatory
body in Tanzania to regulate frequencies and other related functions.
(c) Tanzania Posts Corporation (TPC)
The TRP III project implementation for TPC started in 1994 with the main objective of modernizing the
TPC's operational systems through the purchase of equipment, training and consultancy as well as
strengthening the transport and delivery facilities.
The TRP III project implementation was satisfactory and has played an important role in the establishment
of an effective management characterized by sound financial management principles, provision of quality
- 17-



postal services as well as development of new services and products such as priority mail, e-mail service,
Post Giro System, Post cargo, Post Minibus Service, EMS Courier and Money fax services. TPC also
gained knowledge and experience in project coordination and execution as well as understanding the World
Bank procurement procedures which are normally transparent. This requires sufficient time in advance for
preparation and design before actual implementation. Also some suppliers were not quite conversant with
the World Bank's procurement procedures which resulted into delayed project implementation in some
instances.
Recommendations.
With limited resources in the Government, we appeal for further assistance from the World Bank and
cooperating partners in order to address immediate needs for the purpose of enhancing Communications
capacity in the following areas:
(a)    Strengthening the Ministry's human Capacity in terms of training. This could be in the
form of fellowships and/or Consultancies,
(b)    Study and preparation of technology strategy for provision of cost - effective
telecommunication services in the rural areas by determining the universal service,
(c)    Study and determination of options which will minimise the effects of the digital gulf and
lead to minimising the country's existing economic and social divides,
(d)    Funding of the would be earmarked projects in items (a) and (b) above with priority given
in the dissemination of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) in the rural
areas,
(e)    Enforcement of licence conditions for the new TTCL during the exclusivity period.
Technical assistance in the area of telecommunication standards and regulation,
(f)    Assistance to finance cost of attachment of the staff to experienced regulators in the
following areas:
(i)    Economic regulation,
(ii)    Regulatory Accounting practices,
(iii)   Financial Management of Donor funded projects,
(iv)   Telecommunication policy and regulation (for Commissioners and
Ministry staffs),
(v)    Frequency Planning, and
(g)    Additional funding to automate counter operations countrywide.
Details of the project activities and their performances are clearly presented in the attached reports of
respective institutions.
BANK.
The supervisory role of Bank to the project was highly satisfactory by having a transparent procurement
procedures and good co- operation with the Government as well as other financiers.
- 18 -



Once again, we are expressing our utmost appreciation of the credit you extended to us through the Third
Telecommunications Project Credit 2486 -TA which we found it to be very usefully, successful and
important to our country's economic growth in the communication sector. Such an improvement of the
Communication sector will act as a catalyst in the growth of other Sectors of the economy. It is in this
regard that we request the World Bank and other cooperating partners to continue considering further
assistance to Tanzania in future as we have indicated above.
We have trust that you will understand our position and consider provision of further technical and
financial assistance to Tanzania in the communication sector.
(b) Cofinanciers.
Besides regular consultations with the key donors representatives resident in Tanzania during supervision
missions, GOT/MOCT jointly with the Bank and donors held on July 28, 1997, mid-term review of the
project. Other reviews of implementation progress focused on the support to be provided to the government
and other agencies to implement the National Telecommunications Policy and the decision to privatize
TTCL.
The ICR has been sent to the co-financiers of the TRP for comments. To date, no comments were received
from the co-financiers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not available.
10. Additional Information
In 1997, IFC began to discuss a possible pre-privatization investment in Tanzania Telecommunications
Company Limited ("TTCL"), the state-owned national wireline company (with a cellular license attached).
In late 1997, IFC appraised the Company, including hiring consultants to: (1) prioritize TTCL's
investment program, so the IFC financing would focus on the most urgent needs with the highest positive
impact on the Company's financial position; and (2) perform an environmental audit to draft an action plan
for the Company and ensure compliance with environmental guidelines. In May 1998, IFC received Board
approval to make a pre-privatization investment of up to US$20 million in TTCL to help it upgrade its
network and become more profitable and thus attractive to potential strategic investors. Terms of the
proposed investment included: (1) a convertible preferred equity investment of up to US$20 million for
IFC's own account, and IFC to help raise another US$20 million on identical terms for the account of local
investors; (2) IFC to have a put option in case it was not satisfied with the privatization process or results,
or if the privatization did not occur within 3 years; (3) the Company to have a put option in case the new
strategic investor did not want IFC as an equity holder in the Company. When negotiations for that
transaction stalled in the summer of 1999, at the request of the Company, the Government and the World
Bank, IFC agreed to postpone its investment, and instead invest at the time of privatization, provided all
parties (including IFC) was still interested in such investment.
In June 2000, the 50:50 joint venture of Detecon and MSI were declared the winners in the privatization
open tender bidding process for TTCL. The consortium bid US$120 million for 35 percent of TTCL, with
the proceeds of the bid to be injected into TTCL for future capital expenditures. The other two bidders
were a consortium of WorldTel and Vodacom, which submitted a bid of US$66 million, and Sasktel
International, which bid US$60.5 million. In addition, the Detecon/MSI bid also agreed to roll-out 800,100
new lines by December 31, 2003, increasing the current network of about 135,000 lines in service by more
than 500 percent. After extensive negotiations, it was agreed that the US$120 million would be paid in two
- 19 -



tranches, with the second tranche tied to TTCL's financial performance in 2000. The first US$60 million
tranche was disbursed into TTCL in early March 2001.
While IEC remains interested in investing in TTCL (subject to due diligence, since much has changed since
the initial due diligence), two issues have arisen so far. First, although obviously unknown at the time of
the original Board approval, IFC's exposure to MSI has grown considerably in the past year, and another
US$20 million investment in TTCL would further increase that exposure to MSI. Second, after the
pre-privatization discussions were postponed, the Information Memorandum for the privatization was
distributed to prospective investors stating that the investment from possible international financial
institutions (including IFC) would be made as a purchase of Government shares (paymnent to the
Government), not as a capital increase (payment to TTCL). Such payment and use of IFC funds would
likely be outside IFC's mandate, since IFC funds are normally used by private sector companies for
purchase of assets or working capital needs.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
TANZANIA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECF - CREDIT 2416-TA
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - Staff Appraisal Report
Revised according to Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
TTCL shall:
Indicator- 1996    Idicator- 1997       Indicator- 1998     Indicator- 1999
a.   mainain a hquihty rano ofnot less than one                                           0.91                 1.3                 1.6                 2.0
b.   maintain an annual internatb in aymentoutpayment ratio of not less tban one          2.7                  1.27                0.94                0.94
c.   make dividend payment of25% of profit after tax. Such payment is subject to maintaining its   No dividend paid  No dividend paid  No dividend paid    TShs.l,000 rmillion.
finxancial viability to Meet its current financial obligations                                                                                  This dividend rte does
not reach the set raijo.
d.   meet a(l its fiancial obligations including servicing its debts                     No                   No                   Yes                 Yes
e.   achieve a collection rate of at least 75°h by Dec. 31, 1993, 80°h by Dec. 31, 1994; 90°h by              59.2%                69.8%               66Y
Sept. 30, 1995 and maintain tbe rate at that level thereafter                                                               .
f. reduce accounts receivable in accordance with the following timetable:
December31                   1993               1994                1995               1996               1997               1998               1999
MoU  I Actual    MoU       Acftua      MoU    I Actal    MoU  I Actual   Mo   | A;tuS               MoU  |Achia    MoU  |Ata
Accountreceivable       120       30        90       284       45        265   T45          37        30       204       30       221       30     215
(days in biing)                                                                                       30
g.   achieve the following:
December31                      1993              1994             1995                9996          997_              1998      |      1999       | 3
MoU    Aca       MoU       cal   MoU   Actual   MoU   Acka    MoU   Actual   MoU   Actual   MoU   Actoul   MoU   Actual
Exchange capacity (in       110      125      131     130      132      128     167      149      189      182     219      182     219      203     219      215
thousands)
ConnectedDELs(in            86       85       93       90      100      91      120      92       150     105      187      121     187      ISO     187      165
thousands)
Working DEL(in              71       75       82       83      93       85      114      86       142     103      178      117     178      149     178      163
thousands)
Fauts cleared within 24    65%        -      34f      27%     40%h      275    50°h    40%       80°h    38°h    80%1   57%         80°h%   86%f    80°%    95%
hours
Call complon rate          30%        -      24%    22.7%    23%       25%      35%     25%      40°%    30°%    40| %     40Y%    40Y.| 41%         40°%    41%
(incoming international)  ____
Staffper 1000connected      60       57       46       52      43       53      37       52       31       45      25       39      25       28       25      26
DELs                     I           __
i            1999             I
h.   j du  a               **send to I                   _on aurtlybasisan80/20 sofrevenues and receivables      I        Not Received
i.    sendtolDAbyAplSofeacbyearacopyoftheEfficiencyAuditreferredtoinSectionl3oftheMoU                                    NotReceived
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Ptoject Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate   Estimate       Appraisal
Pr*ject00000 :0CostW-FiE By Cop   iii imi  illion     US$ millon
Regulatory and Policy Framework                        0.95             4.00          444.5
Institutional Development and Project Implementation   4.70             5.80           123.4
Network Rehabilitation and Expansion                  59.10            64.17           108.6
Total Baseline Cost                                   64.75            73.97
Price Contingencies                                   9.70             0.00              0
Total Project Costs              74.45           73.97
Total Financing Required               74.45           73.97
Price contingencies (identified as unallocated in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement), also financed the cost
associated towards the Privatization of TTCL.
Discrepancies in the total project cost between appraisal and latest estimate is due to the Exchange Rate
Fluctuation. There is no discrepancies in the total project cost of the SDR amount. SDR 53.6 million has been
fully disbursed.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
P.rocuremtent Method
EfndJtUre G*t~Ot)(         lOB           NOB          Other2        N.B F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      134.52         0.00         29.10         31.00        194.62
(61.90)       (0.00)        (7.22)        (0.00)       (69.12)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00         19.20          0.00         19.20
(0.00)       (0.00)         (3.25)        (0.00)       (3.25)
4. Training                   0.00           0.00          5.40          0.00         5.40
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.20)        (0.00)       (1.20)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00          0.88          0.00         0.88
(0.00)        (0.00)        (              0.00)        (0.88)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)         0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      134.52         0.00          54.58         31.00        220.10
(61.90)       (0.00)        (12.55)        (0.00)       (74.45)
- 22 -



roject Costs by Procuremet Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivale nt
Procumremnt Method 
Expeniture Catego            ICs            NCB                2         N.8.F.      Total Cost
, _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   , _ _ _ _ _ _ _   O . h e ,
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                        129.65          0.00          29.10          31.00         189.75
(56.98)        (0.00)         (7.22)         (0.00)       (64.20)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00          23.41           0.00         23.41
(0.00)         (0.00)        (7.41)         (0.00)         (7.41)
4. Training                      0.00           0.00           5.68           0.00          5.68
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.48)         (0.00)         (1.48)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.88           0.00          0.88
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.88)        (0.00)         (0.88)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
_______________________    (0.00)         (0.00)    I   (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        129.65          0.00          59.07          31.00         219.72
(56.98)        (0.00)         (16.99)        (0.00)       (73.97)
Discrepancies in the total project cost between appraisal and latest estimate is due to the Exchange Rate
Fluctuation. There is no discrepancies in the total project cost of the SDR amount. SDR 53.6 million has been
fully disbursed.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Compo...e..              _.n GOt CP    __     _________
_Bank      GiovL  ~CoF          Book       GO £      CoF.    Bea    dv    CoF.
Regulatory and Policy     0.95      0.10                 4.00      0.11               421.1  110.0
Framework
Institutional Development    4.70   4.36      13.12      5.80      5.00      15.50    123.4  114.7  118.1
and Project
Implementation
Network Rehabilitation   59.10      22.05     87.10     64.17      25.27     99.87    108.6  114.6  114.7
and Expansion
Price Contingencies       9.70      3.87      15.05      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Capital      No. of new   Total    Incremental       Total         Average
expenditure    subscribers  subscribers  subscribers  revenues      revenues
1992        4,521,688,009.00      -           -          -     19,920,161,980.00       -
1993        1,736,075,255.00      -      85,000.00       -     29,349,601,474.00   345,289.43
1994        2,272,304,991.00    5,000.00   90,000.00    5,000.00   33,192,598,346.00   368,806.65
1995        6,796,757,131.00    1,000.00   91,000.00    6,000.00   45,741,911,750.00   502,658.37
1996       26,063,013,017.00    1,000.00   92,000.00    7,000.00   48,721,437,882.00   529,580.85
1997       19,725,097,806.00   13,000.00   105,000.00   20,000.00   70,313,480,424.00   669,652.19
1998       48,027,988,648.00   16,000.00   121,000.00   36,000.00   96,375,292,067.00   796,490.02
1999       26,626,375,839.00   29,000.00   150,000.00   65,000.00  112,685,182,114.00   751,234.55
2000                   -          -    150,000.00   65,000.00  112,685,182,114.00   751,234.55
2001-2013              -                150,000.00   65,000.00  112,685,182,114.00   751,234.55
Total         Average    Net revenue     Incremental             Net Cash Flow
expenses       expenses   per subscriber   revenue            FRR              ERR
1992        10,372,665,500.00        -            -                -                -
1993        18,341,884,918.00   215,786.88    129,502.55           -    (1,736,075,255.00)  (1,736,075,255.00)
1994        23,490,725,083.00    261,008.06    107,798.59    538,992,959.06  (1,733,312,031.94)  (1,733,312,031.94)
1995        29,470,465,981.00    323,851.27    178,807.10   1,072,842,578.18  (5,723,914,552.82)  (6,145,824,103.02)
1996        43,463,418,586.00    472,428.46  57,152.38    400,066,685.57  (4,159,849,219.00)  (4,146,781,741.68)
1997        64,679,354,384.00    615,993.85  53,658.34   1,073,166,864.76    689,464,507.00  755,964,939.76
1998        83,784,423,089.00   692,433.25    104,056.77   3,746,043,662.88   4,156,340,607.00    5,278,030,321.91
1999        98,310,418,743.00    655,402.79  95,831.76   6,229,064,127.43   7,470,956,955.00    8,433,823,621.67
2000        98,310,418,743.00    655,402.79  93,040.54   6,047,635,075.18   6,047,635,075.18    8,466,689,105.25
2001-2013    98,310,418,743.00    655,402.79  90,330.62   5,871,490,364.25   5,871,490,364.25    8,220,086,509.95
FRR=26%          ERR=36%
Note: Actual figures are used through 1999. Thereafter, a 3% per annurn decline in net subscnber revenue was assumed in 2000 and 2001.
-24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty              Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
January 1991                1   Telecom Policy Specialist
April 1991                  4   Telecom Policy Specialist, Sr.
Financial Analyst, Telecom
Engineer & Res. Representative
November 1991               4   Telecom Policy Specialist,
Financial Analyst, Telecom
Engineer, & Res. Representative.
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 1992                    2   1 Fin. Analyst and I
Engineer
Supervision
November 1993               4   2 Telecom Engineers, 2               S              HS
Financial Analysts
May 1994                     3   2 Telecom Eng., I Financial        HS              HS
Analyst
December 1994               2   Telecom Eng., Financial Analyst      S              HS
June 1995                   3   2 Telecom Eng., I Financial          S              HS
Analyst
October 1995                2   Telecom Eng., Fin. Analyst           S              HS
March 1996                  2   Telecom Eng., Fin. Analyst           S              HS
November 1996                1   Fin. Analyst, PSD Specialist        U               S
February 1997               5   1 PSD Specialist, 2 Telecom          S               S
Eng., I Institutional and I
Policy & Regulatory Specialists
August 1997                 4   PSD Specialist, Telecom Eng.,        S               S
Institutional and Policy &
Regulatory Specialists
February 1998               4   PSD Specialist, Telecom Eng.,        S               S
Institutional and Policy &
Regulatory Specialists
November 1998               5   Financial Analyst, Telecom           S               S
Eng., Institutional, Regulation
and Rural Specialists
September 1999              4   Financial Analyst, Telecom           S               U
Eng., Telecom Spec., Op.
Analyst
September 2000              3   Procurement Analyst, Op.             S               S
Officer, Program Assistant
ICR
September 2000              3    Procurement Analyst, Op.            S               S
Officer, Program Assistant
- 25 -



(1) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
_____________________        _ :    :No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                      29.3                            111.2
AppraisaUNegotiation                            17.8                             98.6
Supervision                                     294                            756.1
ICR                                                7                             30.0
Total                                          348.1                            900.4
Source: Fact (data as of July 12, 1999) and SAP
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
DMacro policies                         OH  OSUOM  ON  *NA
M Sector Policies                       OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
ZK Physical                             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                             O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development             O H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
OI Environmental                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
z Poverty Reduction               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
El Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
r Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
 Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                        O HS * S  OU  OHU
FS Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
F Preparation                                        OHS *OS  O  U  O HU
 Government implementation performance              O HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                  O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
F? Overall                                           OHS OS  O u   O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report (No. 11539-TA), April 2, 1993.
2. Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement (Credit No. 2486-TA), July 26, 1993.
3. Back to Office Reports, Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports.
4. Ministry of Communications and Transport Official Assessment of the Project's Implementation.
5. Tanzania Posts Corporation Assessment of the Project's Implementation.
6. TTCL's Assessment Report on the Implementation of the Third Telecommunications Project.
7. Tanzania Communication Commission's evaluation of the Third Telecommunications Project.
- 29 -






IBRD 23747
X /0 r v\ TGANIO                                                                          ,                                                                                .
\ ukob9Ea KEY
RfWANKDA
BU R U N N DI
TAZNANZAN                        0
E                                                                                                                                    ToLu.,5a ( Vb,5   ~   /   90   INTO3NATIONALdOtJ5.1I I        A     O     S
12                                                                            100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 0                                      OA
NI-W.                     PROJ~~~~ECTNAYRA
atiyailt                                                                                  MAIN MICROWAVE ROIJTES /CAPACRIETOVEMEY
10 M, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 4
N.EW TXOIAI,t CAPIALTY
110  REGIONSRODRE
INERNTOND YKALONDARE
Li; cli ~ ~     ~      ~      AIWA
This morp Iro  beenr  preporod                                                                                                                                                                          Mtwara <t            IhJDMNf
b; The  World  8anks  stoff                                                       t          5      f                 )                    N                                \        JK    } n    X  bb21
eoclusivel, for the conoeo,erce                                                                                                 \                                                                                                   >ci7\  e ~AN
of roodert  ood  ,o  for theo        
iriterool use of Ifie World 8Bo/                                                                            _ 5ut                          -                  ,   .   Matd _s_
Group.7he doeornieot,oos usrd I/,  f  I
ond  the  boudoriesohuooor_<  
hon oro mo do not imply, or thlb\I> w  
port of Th,eWorldBor,t Droop,                                                                                                                                                                                           Lb J      MS     5 5          lCK
orny judgmenet oo the legsol                                                                  \      v_                                                                                          
OtOtOo  or ay territory or ni                                                                                           J_(                                            Y5                                                                                   ''       |
cndorsemert or occoptonre of                                                                                                                                                                                     OL EI      0       00      04      O
ooch bocodorieo                                     as'                                                                   zoo  6               --                                                                 tSt    }           @       4      1n      2X
JAN UARYB1U99:i



