Page  1
August 12, 1996
His Excellency Simon Mbilinyi
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Dear Sir:
     Re:  Credit 2486 - TA -(Third Telecommunications Project)
          Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement) dated
July 26, 1993, between United Republic of Tanzania (the Borrower) and
International Development Association (the Association), as amended to
date, and to discussions held during the recent supervision mission of
the Association. To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the
Association proposes that the Agreement be further amended as follows:
1.   Section 1.02 is amended as follows:
     (a)  the deletion of definition (c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"
and the substitution therefor of the following new definition:
          "(c) 'Subsidiary Loan Agreement' means the agreement entered
          into between the Borrower and TPTC pursuant to Section 3.01
          (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
          to time, and such term includes any schedules to the
          Subsidiary Loan Agreement and any amendments substituting
          TPTC's successor entity, TTCL as a party to the Subsidiary
          Loan Agreement;';
     (b)  the deletion of definition (d) "TTCL" and the substitution
therefor of the following new definition:
          "(d) 'TPTC' means the former Tanzania Posts and Telecom-
          munications Corporation, established pursuant to the
          Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Act, No. 15 of 1977
          as replaced by TCC, TTCL and TPC or other successor entity
          or entities established by the Borrower to carry out the
          functions and responsibilities of TPTC;'.
     (c)  the deletion of the word "and" occurring immediately after
definition (k): "Program"; and
     (d)  the addition of the following new definitions immediately
after definition: (l) "Donors":
          (m)  "TCC" means the Tanzania Communications Commission, a
          statutory body established pursuant to the Tanzania
          Communications Commission Act, No 18 of 1993;
          (n)  "TTCL" means the Tanzania Telecommunications Company
          Limited, a limited liability company established under the
          Companies Ordinance, pursuant to the Tanzania Telecom-
          munications Company Limited Act No 20 of 1993;
          (o)  "TPC" means the Tanzania Postal Corporation, a statutory
          body established pursuant to the Tanzania Posts Corporation
          Act No. 19 of 1993;
          (p)  "the Relevant Acts" means: (i) the Tanzania Communica-
          tions Commission Act 1993; (ii) the Tanzania Telecommunica-
          tions Company Limited Act 1993; and (iii) the Tanzania Posts
          Act 1993; and
2.   Paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 (b) is deleted and following new
paragraph is substituted:
Page  2
          "(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
          open and maintain in its central bank in dollars three
          special deposit accounts, namely: (i) Special Account A
          for TCC with respect to Parts A.1-3 and A. 5-6; (ii)
          Special Account B for TTCL with respect to Parts A.4,
          B.1-6 and C.1-6; and (iii) Special Account C for TPC with
          respect to Parts B.7 and C.7 of the Project, on terms and
          conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
          appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
          attachment.";
3.   Section 2.09 is deleted and the following new Section is sub-
stituted:
          "Section 2.09.  TCC, TTCL and TPC with respect to their
          respective Parts of the Project, shall be designated as
          representative of the Borrower for the purposes of any
          action required or permitted to be taken under the
          provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
          V of the General Conditions.";
4.   Section 3.01 (a) and (b) are deleted and the following is
substituted:
          "Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
          the objectives of the Program and the Project as set forth
          in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to this end shall cause
          TCC and TPC respectively to carry out Parts A.1-3, A.5-6,
          and B.7 and C.7 respectively of the Project with due
          diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
          administrative, financial and telecommunications practices
          and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
          services and other resources required for such Parts of the
          Project.
          (b)  Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
          other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall,
          cause, TTCL to perform in accordance with the provisions of
          the Project Agreement, all the obligations of, TTCL therein
          set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
          including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
          other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TTCL to
          perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
          taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
          performance."
5.   Paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 is deleted and the following new
paragraph substituted:
          "(d) Any of the Relevant Acts shall have been amended,
          suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
          materially and adversely the ability of TCC, TTCL or TPC,
          as the case may be, to perform any of its obligations
          under the Project Agreement.";
6.   The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended
to read as in Attachment 1 to this letter.
7.   Schedule 2 is amended by the deletion of Part A.2 and the sub-
stitution of the following:
           "2.  Establishment of a regulatory body to regulate
           telecommunications activities, including licensing, tariffs
           and frequency management, and the acquisition of vehicles
           and equipment to support such activities."
8.   Schedule 3 is amended by the addition of what appears in Attachment
2 to this letter before "Consultants' Services".
9.   Paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 4 is deleted and the following new
paragraph is substituted:
Page  3
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2)(a), (3)(a)
and (4)(a) for Special Account A, Categories (1), (2)(b), (3)(b) and
(4)(b) for Special Account B and Categories (2)(c), (3)(c) and (4)(c)
for Special Account C set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;';
10.  Paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 4 is deleted and the following new
paragraph is substituted:
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited into a Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule equivalent in the case of: (i)
Special Account A to $500,000; (ii) Special Account B to $4,000,000;
and (iii) Special Account C to $500,000.'
     All other provisions of the Agreement, except as amended herein,
shall remain in full force and effect.
     Please confirm your agreement to the amendments by countersigning,
dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter. This
amendment shall become effective as the date of countersignature.
Sincerely,
Thomas Allen
Acting Director
Tanzania, Uganda
Attachment
CONFIRMED:
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By : Peter Ngumbullu
     Authorized Representative
Date:  September 4, 1996
cc:
The Director General
Tanzania Communications Commission
P.O. Box 474
Dar es Salaam
Managing Director
Tanzania Telecommunications
 Company Limited
P.O. Box 9070
Dar es Salaam
Postmaster General
Tanzania Postal Corporation
P.O. Box 9551
Dar es Salaam
Attachment 2
     The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended
to read as follows:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and            38,800,000         100% of foreign
     installation under                          expenditures
Page  4
     Parts C.1-3 of
     the Project
(2)  Vehicles, computers                         100% of foreign
     and office equipment:                       expenditures
     (a)  for Part A.2           240,000
          of the Project
     (b)  for Parts C.4 and    4,850,000
          6 of the Project
     (c)  for Part C. 7        1,200,000
          of the Project
(3)  Training:                                   100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  for Part A.5           370,000
          of the Project
     (b)  for Parts B.4-6        550,000
          of the Project
     (c)  for Part B.7           350,000
          of the Project
(4)  Consultants' services                       100%
     (a)  for Parts A.2,         480,000
          A.3 and A.6
          of the Project
     (b)  for Parts A.4,       2,400,000
          and B.1 through 4
          of the Project
     (c)  for Part B.7           350,000
          of the Project
(5)  (a)  Postal equipment       290,000        100% of foreign
          and vehicles                          expenditures
          for Part C.7 of
          the Project
     (b)  Consultants'           190,000        100%
          services and
          training for Part
          B. 7 of the
          Project
(6)  Project                     520,000        Refunding of
     Preparation                                Amounts due
     Advance                                    pursuant to
                                                Section 2.02 (c)
                                                of this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated               3,010,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    53,600,000
                              ==========
Attachment 2
                  Procurement and Consultant's Services
Section I:     Procurement of Goods
Page  5
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).  For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid referred
to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to
be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be
taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Tanzania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
from three countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where
payments for such contract are to made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Associa-
tion prior to the making the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are
to made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with
the other information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals form the Credit
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  6
