Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2486 TA
                   Development Credit Agreement
                (Third Telecommunications Project)
                              between
                    UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 26, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2486 TA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1993, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS:  (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to secure financing from various
other sources in an aggregate amount approximately equivalent to
$115,250,000 to assist in financing the Project; and
      (C)   the Project will be carried out by Tanzania Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (TPTC) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
TPTC a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and TPTC;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 6, 1990, and
February 9, 1990, between the Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TPTC pursuant to Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
      (d)   "TPTC" means Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation, established pursuant to the Tanzania Posts and
Telecommunications Act, No. 15 of 1977 and any successor entity or
entities which may be established by the Borrower to carry out the
functions and responsibilities of TPTC;
      (e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and TPTC, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (f)   "Ministerial Directive" means the Ministerial Directive
No. 1 dated March 31, 1992, made pursuant to the TPTC Act;
      (g)   "MOU" means the Memorandum of Understanding between the
Borrower and TPTC dated March 31, 1992, establishing the operating
and financial framework for TPTC pursuant to the Ministerial
Directive;
      (h)   "Basic Telecommunications Services" means local, long
distance and international telephone, telex and telegraph services;
      (i)   "Non-Basic Telecommunications Services" means all other
telecommunications services other than Basic Telecommunications
Services.
      (j)   "Letter of Sector Policy" means the letter to be
submitted to the Association by the Borrower describing the Program,
as defined below;
      (k)   "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve the structural adjustment of the
Borrower's telecommunications sector described in the Letter of
Sector Policy from the Borrower to the Association; and
      (l)   "Donors" means the various bilateral and multilateral
agencies who will be providing financing for the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty three million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 53,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June, 30, 1999, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2003, and ending March 1, 2033. Each
Page  4
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2013, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and North Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. TPTC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Program and the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and, to this end shall carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and telecommunications
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for such Part of
the Project.
      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause TPTC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement, with respect to Parts B and C
of the Project, all the obligations of TPTC therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable TPTC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
      (c)   The Borrower shall make $20,000,000 equivalent of the
proceeds of the Credit available to TPTC as an equity contribution.
      (d)   The Borrower shall relend $53,500,000 equivalent of the
proceeds of the Credit to TPTC under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and TPTC, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which
shall include, inter alia, an interest rate of at least 8% per
Page  5
annum, with the principal to be repaid in twenty years including a
grace period of five years, and with TPTC bearing the cost of
fluctuations in the currencies relent to it.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of consultants' services required for Part A of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and ser-
vices, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by TPTC
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall by March 31, 1994: (a) esta-
blish a regulatory body for telecommunications and transfer
responsibility for regulation of the telecommunications sector to
said body; and (b) take all actions necessary to permit private
sector involvement in Basic and Non Basic Telecommunications
Services.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1993,
take all actions necessary to issue or cause to be issued at least
one license for a cellular operator on the basis of competitive
bidding procedures, satisfactory to the Association; and (b) by
December 31, 1995, take all actions necessary to issue licenses to
private sector operations or investors for two other Non-Basic
Telecommunications Services.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by no later than March 31,
1994, take all necessary measures to establish two new entities to
be responsible respectively for TPTC's postal and telecommunica-
tions functions.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by the date of the mid-term
review: (a) furnish to the Association for its review and comments
the recommendations of the study to be carried out under Part A.6 of
the Project; and (b) prepare and submit to the Association an action
plan, taking into account the Association's comments, for the
involvement of the private sector in the telecommunications sector.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall prepare or cause to be
prepared annually, for the Association's review, a comparative
analysis of the actual performance of TPTC against the performance
indicators in the MOU and as indicated in the Annex to Schedule 2 to
the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause TPTC to,
by not later than December 31, 1995, carry out jointly with the
Association and the Donors, a mid-term review of the Project. Such
review shall include, inter alia, an assessment of: (i) satisfactory
compliance with the Project implementation schedule; (ii) satis-
factory compliance with the performance indicators; (iii) the
establishment of a legal and regulatory framework for telecom-
munications; (iv) operation of the regulatory body for telecom-
munications; (v) issuance of licenses to private sector operators;
(vi) operation of the new telecommunications entity; (vii) progress
in the divestiture of the activities of TPTC referred to in Section
2.06 of the Project Agreement; and (viii) progress in the
installation of a comprehensive billing system for tele-
communications.
      (b)   At least two months prior to such review, the Borrower
Page  6
shall cause its agencies, including TPTC, to prepare and furnish to
the Association and the Donors a report, including, inter alia, a
review of the results of the efficiency audits and the status of
actions implemented in accordance with the Program, as well as
progress made in implementation of the Project.
     (c)   Promptly after the completion of the mid-term review
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower and TPTC
shall take all necessary actions to implement recommendations
emanating from the review.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Association shall have reasonably requested;
                   and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                   with sound accounting practices, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Association has
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                   Account was made; and
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records.
      (d)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                   the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  7
           (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months after
                   the end of each such year the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Association shall have
                   reasonably requested, including a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their preparation,
                   can be relied upon to support the related
                   withdrawals; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records and accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   That a situation has risen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out.
      (b)   TPTC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that TPTC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Act shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of TPTC to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (e)   The Ministerial Directive or MOU shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations, the autonomy, or the financial
condition of TPTC or its ability to carry out the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (f)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-
                   maturing is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
Page  8
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and TPTC;
      (b)   TPTC shall have submitted to the Association audited
financial statements for 1992, acceptable to the Association;
      (c)   TPTC shall have selected and commenced procurement of a
comprehensive billing system for all telephone, telex, and telegraph
services;
      (d)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association the Letter
of Sector Policy, satisfactory to the Association; and
      (e)   TPTC has selected a Financial Controller with
qualifications and experience, and under terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by TPTC, and is legally binding upon TPTC in accordance
with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and TPTC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and TPTC in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister for the time responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 9111
            Dar es Salaam
            Tanzania
Page  9
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   TREASURY                  41329
                   Dar es Salaam
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                         By /s/ Charles Nyirabu
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Equipment and                             100% of foreign
      installation under:                       expenditures
      (a)  Phase I of         20,170,000
           Part C.8 of
           the Project
      (b)  Phase II of        18,010,000
           Part C.8 of
Page  10
           the Project
(2)   Vehicles, computers                       100% of foreign
      and office equip-                         expenditures
      ment:
      (a)  Computers and       2,370,000
           office equip-
           ment
      (b)  Vehicles              720,000
(3)   Training                                  100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
      (a)  For Part A of         140,000
           the Project
      (b)  For Part B of
           the Project           640,000
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)   Consultant's                              100% of foreign
      Services                                  expenditures
      (a)  For Part A of         540,000
           the Project
      (b)  For Part B.1        1,380,000
           through 6 of
           the Project
(5)   (a)  Postal equipment    1,280,000        100% of foreign
           and vehicles for                     expenditures
           Part C.7 of the
           Project
      (b)  Consultant's ser-     710,000        100% of foreign
           vices and train-                     expenditures
           ing for Part B.7
           of the Project
(6)   Refunding of               630,000        Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(7)   Unallocated              7,010,000
                              __________
           TOTAL              53,600,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments made
for expenditures under Category (1)(a) until and unless TPTC has
employed a firm with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association to be responsible for the supervision of the
procurement and implementation of capital construction activities
under the Project; and (c) payments made for expenditures under
Category (1)(b) unless and until the Association shall have notified
TPTC that it may enter into commitments in respect of works and
equipment under Phase II.
Page  11
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) rehabilitate and
expand basic telecommunications services, particularly to business
subscribers; (ii) strengthen the institutional capacity of TPTC;
(iii) establish a market-oriented regulatory and policy framework;
and (iv) promote private sector participation in the telecom-
munications sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Regulatory and Policy Framework
1.    Carrying out annual efficiency audits, to review quantifiable
financial, technical, and operational performance targets.
2.    Establishment of a regulatory body to regulate
telecommunications activities, including licencing, tariffs and
frequency management.
3.    Establishment of the legal and regulatory environment to,
inter alia, permit private sector participation and investment in
basic and value-added telecommunications services.
4.    Commercialization and corporatization of TPTC's operations,
divestiture of non-core functions and splitting of postal and
telecommunications activities.
5.    Training of regulatory staff and transfer of knowledge.
6.    Carrying out a study on the scope and extent of private sector
involvement in the telecommunications sector.
Part B:     Institutional Development
1.    Carrying out the following studies:
      (a)   to develop a comprehensive human resource and training
strategy and a plan for its implementation; and
      (b)   to develop a computerization strategy.
2.    Design and implementation of financial management systems and
procedures, including the following: (a) new billing and accounts
receivable system; (b) accrual accounting system; and (c) improve-
ment of budgeting, forecasting and cost control.
3.    Introduction of revised audit controls.
4.    Strengthening of corporate planning, engineering, customer
service and other activities.
5.    Training of trainers of the staff college, and development of
new courses.
6.    Training fellowships for TPTC staff primarily in local and
regional training institutions.
7.    Restructuring of postal operations after the separation of
TPTC postal and telecommunications activities.
Part C:     Rehabilitation and Expansion
1.    Rehabilitation of existing switching, transmission, power and
air conditioning equipment, including acquisition of spare parts,
modules, tools and test equipment.
Page  12
2.    Acquisition, installation and commissioning of:
      (a)   about 91,000 lines of switching equipment, including
44,000 lines in Dar es Salaam and 47,000 in regional centers;
      (b)   complementary external line plant to match (a) above and
external line plant for exchanges requiring additional cabling;
      (c)   digital microwave radio systems and fibre optical
systems to interconnect the exchanges; and
      (d)   power and airconditioning equipment for switching and
transmission.
3.    Acquisition of about 20,000 telephone instruments, about 500
pay telephones, about 200 teleprinters and about 500 fax machines.
4.    Acquisition of about 50 vehicles for planning, construction
and maintenance works.
5.    Construction of buildings to accommodate equipment and for
office and residential purposes.
6.    Acquisition of ancillary equipment, computer hardware and
software.
7.    Acquisition of postal equipment and vehicles.
8.    Rehabilitation and expansion of the telecommunications network
to be financed by the Association will be divided into two phases as
follows:
      (a)   Phase I
            -      Spare parts for existing switching, external
                   line plant and transmission.
            -      Upgrading of earth station with digital IDR
                   facility.
            -      External line plant in Pugu Road and Wageni
                   (both in Dar es Salaam) to provide connection
                   capacity for existing exchanges.
            -      Long distance transmission with digital
                   microwave systems for Dar es Salaam-Dodoma and
                   Dar es Salaam-Zanzibar-Pemba-Tanga-Moshi.
            -      Terminals
      (b)   Phase II
            -      Switching in Arusha, Morogoro, Zanzibar, Chake
                   Chake, Wete, Mkoani and in 20 rural locations.
            -      External line plant in Arusha, Morogoro,
                   Zanzibar and in the above-mentioned 20 rural
                   locations.
            -      Long distance transmission with digital
                   microwave systems for Moshi-Arusha.
            -      Small radio transmission related to above-
                   mentioned rural locations.
            -      Spur links related to the long distance
                   transmission routes Dar es Salaam-Dodoma-Dar es
                   Salaam-Zanzibar-Pemba-Tanga-Moshi-Arusha.
            -      Power and air conditioning for above-mentioned
                   switching and transmission.
Page  13
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                           SCHEDULE 3
                       Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provision of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single-
source hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
Page  14
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
Page  15
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
