Report No. PIC1263
Project Name                   Morocco-Water Resources Management (@j 
Project
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Natural Resources Management
Project ID                     MAPA5521
Borrower                       Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing Agencies          Ministries of Public Works, Agriculture,
Interior and Health
Contact: Mr. Mohamed Jellali
Director-General
Administration de l'Hydraulique
Rue Hassan Benchekroun
Rabat, Agdal, Morocco.
Tel: 212.7.77.90.08
Fax: 212.7.77.86.96
Date this update               February  1997
Date initial PID prepared      November 1994
Project Appraisal Date         April 1996
Project Board Date             May 1997
1.   Background and Water Sector Strategy.   The water sector plays a
central role in Morocco's economic development and has been strongly
supported by the GOM. The urban water supply and irrigation subsectors
are relatively well developed. By the year 2000, in spite of strong
demographic growth and urban migration, 90 percent of the urban
population will be connected to treated water supplies. By the same
year, a 50 percent expansion of modern irrigation is expected to bring
the total irrigated area to one million hectares. Irrigation and
drinking water absorb 85 percent and 12 percent respectively of total
mobilized water resources. Hydropower contributes about 15 percent of
the country's total energy production.
2.   A Water Sector Review (1995) shows that despite major achievements,
Morocco faces an increasing challenge in water resource management. A
growing disequilibrium is anticipated between rising demands, resulting
from rapid expansion of irrigated areas and urban development, and a
slowing of the growth in available supplies; this trend is compounded by
the exploitation of more marginal supplies, the depletion of aquifers
and the pollution of available resources. Sanitation infrastructure has
not kept pace with drinking water supply and urban effluent is a major
contributor to the pollution of surface, coastal and groundwater. In
addition, industrial and agricultural pollution, together with erosion
of the watersheds, has resulted in a degradation of water resources.
Polluted water is the major contributor to disease in rural areas, as
only 14 percent of rural water supplies are treated. The sector has
certain weaknesses in resource planning and management, maintenance of
the existing infrastructure, cost recovery. Institutional capability



needs strengthening.
3.   Morocco is at a turning point which requires adoption of a national
strategy and decisive policies to address the challenges of water
resources management in the coming decades. The Government largely
emphasizes the development of additional water resources ("supply
management") but is facing technical and economic limits. Many of the
proposed new dams are located on less favorable sites, increasing
volumes of water have to be transferred over longer distances, several
aquifers are overexploited, irrigation efficiency is low, and
environmental degradation is increasing. Government is well aware of
these issues and is committed to taking steps to address them. In
particular, it aims to promote an integrated management of water
resources, covering quantitative and qualitative aspects, with central
coordination and decentralized management and ensuring participation of
stakeholders and the private sector.
4.   The passage of the new Water Law in 1995 is a major step in the
implementation of an integrated water resources management. It was the
result of a continuous policy dialogue conducted with the government by
the Bank in the context of the preparation of the Water Sector Review.
The law provides the necessary regulatory, legal and institutional
framework to support sustainable water management and makes a number of
fundamental policy reforms such as : (a) the creation of river basin
agencies for decentralized water management and increased stakeholder
participation; (b) the establishment of a long-term national and river
basin water master plans; (c) introduction of water charges on bulk
water resources and pollution taxes; and (d) establishment of the
monitoring and control of water quality.
5.   Project Objectives The principal objective of the project is to
assist the Government by supporting the first steps in the
implementation of an integrated water resources management strategy. The
strategy combines supply, demand and quality management while also
addressing economic efficiency and equity objectives. Specifically, the
project would support measures to: (a) promote policy reforms which
would establish the necessary facilitating environment for sustainable
water resources management; (b) strengthen the institutional capacity in
water planning and management, decentralization and increased
stakeholder participation; and (c) improve supply management through the
development of water resources, demand management through enhancing
efficiency in allocation and on-farm water use, and quality improvement
through pollution control measures.
6.   Project Description   The project would include the following four
components: (a) Policy Reforms, to develop the framework for long-
term planning and management, to set up the regulatory framework
required, promote greater use of economic incentives through
appropriate tariffs, and improve cost recovery; (b) Institutional
Development, for decentralized water management through the creation
and development of a River Basin Agency (RBA) and stakeholder
participation; (c) Capacity Building, to strengthen the planning,
policy-making, project analysis, monitoring and management capability
of implementing agencies, introduction of best practices on dam
maintenance and safety, and in real-time water management, and applied
- 2-



research on water saving irrigation technologies; and (d) Priority
Investment in water resource mobilization (infrastructure
rehabilitation, groundwater development and flood control), and water
quality improvement.
7.   This project is expected to be the first in a series of river
basin projects which would improve the integration of water resources
management through policy and institutional reforms and support
financing priority investments to achieve efficient, equitable and
environmentally sound utilization of water resources. The policy
component of the project would be defined in a policy letter outlining
government policy and institutional reform objectives and dated
actions. The project investments would mainly focus on the chronically
stressed Oum-er-R'bia river (OER) basin. These pilot actions would
demonstrate the beneficial effects of integrated river basin water
resources management, for replication in the future in the other river
basins. The principal criterion for the selection of investments would
be their contribution to enhancing water resource management based on
sound economic principles through applying best practices.
8.   Project Costs and Financing Total Project cost is estimated at
about US$105 million, of which about US$60 million would be financed
by the Bank; and US$ million would be financed by the government and
beneficiaries. Bank financing would include a portion of local costs.
For the remaining US$20 million, co-financing on a grant basis would
be sought.
9.   Project Implementation The project would be implemented by
several Government bodies: the Direction Generale de l'Hydraulique
(DGH) as the lead implementing agency, and the newly created River
Basin Authority - both under the Ministry of Public Works for water
resource planning, mobilization and allocation; the Ministry of
Agriculture for water conservation in irrigation; the Office National
d'Eau Potable (ONEP) and the Direction Generale des Collectivites
Locales (DGCL) in the Ministry of Interior for sewage treatment
works, and the Ministry of Health for the prevention of waterborne
diseases. Consultancy and training provisions under the project are
significant in order to meet project implementation needs and the
capacity building objectives of the project.
10.   Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement. The project draws on the
relevant experience in the water sector as articulated in the Water
Sector Review. In particular, it reflects the perceived need for
greater attention to institution-building for overall resource
planning and management, improved efficiency and cost recovery in
water use, and users' participation. These considerations are
particularly acute in irrigation development. The project complements
ongoing and future operations, which are primarily focused on sub-
sectoral improvements in urban sanitation, irrigation, pollution
control, environmental protection, erosion control and poverty
alleviation. The project aims to articulate the policies endorsed in
the Bank's Water Resource Management paper and MENA Water Resource
Strategy.
11. Rationale for Bank Involvement. The proposed project is
-3 -



consistent with the Bank's strategy for Morocco and the Bank's Water
Resource Management and MENA water resources strategies. It also
reflects the priorities defined in the Bank's Morocco Water Sector
Review. The water sector will continue to play an increasingly crucial
role in the Moroccan economy. Assisting the Government in its efforts
to improve water resources management would be an important
contribution to achieving an efficient, equitable and environmentally
sound utilization of water resources. The Government's projections
suggest that considerable investments will be required to meet the
rising demand for water, given decreasing supply and diminishing
water quality. Future water resource management will have to
integrate supply and demand management, address simultaneously the
quantity and quality aspects, and promote decentralization and
stakeholder participation. In implementing this new approach,
Government has requested Bank support. Bank participation is
anticipated to enhance policy reforms, institutional development,
assist in the evaluation and financing of sustainable priority
investments, and assist the Government in securing cofinancing.
12. The project is the cuination of a series of actions the Bank has
undertaken to assist the Government. For over three decades, the Bank
has provided extensive support for the development of irrigation and
urban water supply. Recently, the need to widen its focus to include
water resource management and environmental protection projects in its
lending program has become pressing. Investment operations in the
long-neglected sanitation and rural water supply sub-sectors are also
being initiated. In expanding the scope of its portfolio in the water
sector, the Bank is implementing its new approach to water resource
management which aims to meet the challenge of sustainable
development, and environmental protection. By promoting an integrated
strategy for long-term water resource management, this project is
expected to lay down the policy and institutional framework and
finance selective investments in the water sector. In particular, it
will complement the Second Environmental Protection Project, the
National Watershed Management Project and Second Sewerage and Water
Reuse Project. Through successful implementation of this project, it
is expected to develop as a model into which other donors can fit in
and support the financing of follow-up projects.
13. Environmental Aspects. The project has been rated Category B.
Please see attached Annex.
14. Project Benefits. Benefits would mainly accrue from the long-term
economic sustainability of water resources management as supported by
the project. In the short term, the Moroccan economy would benefit
from improved efficiency in water allocation and water use. The
project would also have an important positive impact on public
expenditures by rationalizing public investments in water resource
development and by raising users' contributions to capital and
recurrent costs through appropriate cost recovery policies. Project
components would have positive environmental impacts and environmental
issues associated with their implementation will be effectively
addressed by preparation and implementation of monitoring and
mitigation plans. The project is expected to demonstrate actions for
the integrated water management practices which will be widely
-4 -



replicated.
15. In addition to the economic and environmental benefits noted
above, the project would serve to reinforce stakeholder participation,
and management decentralization. It would also benefit the rural poor
through the improvement of water resources for rural communities. The
environmental impact of the project by reducing waterborne diseases
would significantly improve public health, particularly for poorer
people who consume and bathe in untreated water. In the long-term, by
providing the basis for sustainable water management and rationalizing
investment, it would contribute towards the provision of adequate
rural and urban water supplies and reduce the impact of droughts on
incomes and output.
16. Project Sustainability. The proposed project is expected to
provide an excellent foundation and framework for integrated water
management. The focus of the project on specific investment in a
river basin will ensure synergy and a replicable pilot demonstration
of integrated water resource management covering quantitative and
qualitative aspects of surface and groundwater, and decentralized
management at river basin level. This project is the first phase in a
series of follow-up projects aimed at addressing long-term issues of
water efficiency in water allocation and water use and its
sustainability.
17.  Project Risks. The principal risk relates to delays in the
establishment of the RBA and the level of tariff. This risk would be
significantly reduced with the passage of the key decrees necessary
for implementing the Water Law.
Contact Point:      Mr. A. Bichara, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 21, 1997.
- 5 -



Annex
Environmental Annex
All project components have been reviewed in the light of the
environmental requirements of Morocco and the provisions of the Bank's
Operational Directives and the project has been placed in environmental
Category B.
The project is expected to improve the long-term management of
water resources through policy reforms and institutional strengthening,
support actions to conserve water use, control the pollution of surface
and groundwater resources, and demonstrate actions for the integrated
water management practices which could be replicated elsewhere in
Morocco.
-6-



