Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15760-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
January28, 1998
Rural Development, Water and Environment Group
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of August 15, 1997)
Currency Unit: Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
US$1.00 = MAD 9.50
MAD 1.00 = US$0.105
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)      = 1.09 yards (yd)
I m2             = 10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi)
2
I km             = 0.38 square miles
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
Vice President:           Kemal Dervi§
Director MNCMG:           Salah Darghouth
Task Manager:             Adel Bichara



ABBREVIATIONS
AGR       =  Administration du Genie Rural (Department of Rural Works)
CSEC      =  Conseil Superieur de l'Eau et du Cliniat (National Council for Water and Climate)
DGCL    =  Direction Genrale des Collectivites Locales (Department of Local Admiristration)
DGH       =  Direction Generale de l'Hydraulique (Department of Hydraulics)
DMN       =  Direction de la Meteorologie Nationale
DPTP      =  Direction Provinciale des Travaux Publics (Provincial Administration of Public Works)
DRH       =  Direction Regionale de l'Hydraulique (Regional Directorate of Hydraulics)
EAP       =  Environmental Action Plan
EDI       =  Economic Development Institute
FAO       =  Food and Agricultural Organization
GDP       =  Gross Domestic Product
GOM       =  Government of Morocco
IBRD      =  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICC       =  Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee (Comite Inter-ministeriel de Coordiantion)
LODP      =  Letter of Development Policy
LSI       =  Large-Scale Irrigation
METAP   =  Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
MOA       =  Ministry of Agriculture (Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Mise en Valeur Agricole)
MOE       =  Ministry of Environment (Ministere de l'Environnement)
MOEM    =  Ministry of Energy and Mining (Ministere de i'Energie et des Mines)
MOF       =  Ministry of Finance (Ministere des Finances)
MOH       =  Ministry of Public Health (Ministere de la Sante Publique)
MOI       =  Ministry of Interior (Ministere de l'Interieur)
MOPW    =  Ministry of Public Works (Ministere des Travaux Publics)
NIP       =  National Irrigation Plan (Plan National d'Irrigation)
NWP       =  National Water Plan (Plan National de l'Eau)
OER       =  Oum-er-R'bia
O&M       =  Operations and Maintenance
ONE       =  Office National de l'Electricite (National Electricity Office)
ONEP      =  Office National de l'Eau Potable (National Potable Water Office)
ORMVA   =  Offices Regionaux de Mise en Valeur Agricole (Regional Agricultural Development
Authorities)
PHRD      =  Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PIU       =  Project Implementation Unit
PPAU      =  Policy and Project Analysis Unit
PPF       =  Project Preparation Facility
RBA       =  River Basin Agency (Agence de Bassin)
SMI       =  Small- and Medium-scale Irrigation (Petite et Moyenne Hydraulique)
TCC       =  Technical Coordination Committee
TOR       =  Terms of Reference
WL        =  Water Law
WRMP    =  Water Resource Management Project



t



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY..........................................................................1..................i
I.         SECTOR  BACKGROUND  ..................................................I
A. Introduction .................................................1I
B. Sector Overview ..................................................2
C. Issues and Constraints ..................................................3
D. Government Reform Approach ..................................................4
E.  The New  Legal and Institutional Framework ..................................................5
F.   Bank Involvement and Lessons Learned ..................................................7
G.  Bank Strategic Orientation and Rationale for Involvement ...................................................9
II.    THE PROJECT ................................................. .                                                                               10
A. Project Origin .................................................                                                                      10
B.  Project Objectives and Summary .................................................                                                     10
C. Detailed Features ...................................................11
III.       COSTS  AND  FINANCING  ..................................................                                                                 14
A. Cost Estimates .................................................                                                                      14
B. Financing .................................................                                                                           14
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING .                                                                 ................................................  15
A. Organization and Management .................................................                                                         15
B.  Establishment of the RBA  in Oum-er-R'bia .................................................                                          16
C.  Monitoring of Project Implementation and Bank Supervision ............................................... 17
D. Accounts and Audits .................................................                                                                 18
V.         PROCUREMENT  AND  DISBURSEMENT .................................................                                                          18
A. Procurement ..................................................                                                                        18
B. Disbursement .................................................                                                                        21
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions which visited Morocco in
November 1995, and April 1996 respectively, and was prepared by a tearn comprised of the following members:
Messrs/Mine. Mathewos Woldu, Mission Leader, Abbas (Hydraulic Engineer), Bekhechi (Lawyer), Faiz (Sanitary
Engineer, Consultant), Glineur (Environmental Specialist), Goldin (Water Policy Specialist), Koenig (Water Resource
Planner), Riezbos (Economist, Consultant), and Villaret (Irrigation Engineer, Consultant). The Costab was processed
by Ms. C. Henry. Messrs. Adel Bichara and Guzman Garcia-Rivero updated the report. The report was produced by
Ms. How Yew Kin. Peer reviewers were Messrs. John Hayward (EMTAW), and Guy Le Moigne (AGRDR). The
Country Director is Mr. Christian Delvoie and the Acting Sector Director is Mr. Salah Darghouth. The Regional Vice
President is Mr. Kemal Dervi,.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS    .. 22
A.        Benefits and Beneficiaries ...........................................................                            22
B.        Economic Justification ...........................................................                                23
C.        Risks ...........................................................                                                 24
VII.    DEVELOPMENT  IMPACT ...........................................................                                                24
A.        Environmental Impact ...........................................................                                  24
B.        Poverty Alleviation ...........................................................                                    24
C.        Project Sustainability ...........................................................                                25
VIII.   AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATION ...........................................................                                     25
List of Tables in the Main Text
Table 1:             Estimated Project Costs ...........................................................                                14
Table 2:             Project Financing Plan ...........................................................                                 14
Table 3:             Summary of Procurement Arrangements ...........................................................                   21
ANNEXES
Annex I              Draft Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2              Proposed Policy Framework and Reforms
Annex 3              Establishment of the River Basin Agency in Oum-er-Rbia
Annex 4              Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 5              Supervision Plan
Annex 6              List of Contracts and Procurement Methods
Annex 7              Disbursement Schedule
Annex 8              Environmental Analysis
Annex 9              Economic Justification
Annex 10             Summary Cost tables
Annex 11             Impact Monitoring Indicators
Annex 12             List of Technical Working Papers
Maps:                IBRD Map No. 28053
IBRD Map No. 25478R



i
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing Agencies:     Department of Hydraulics, Ministry of Public Works
Oum-er-R'bia River Basin Agency, Ministry of Public Works
Ministries of Agriculture, and Health.
Beneficiaries:             Approximately 280,000 irrigation farmers who reside in the Central
Oum-er-R'bia basin would benefit from dependable water resources
allocations and reduced water losses.
Poverty:                    The project has no direct impact on poverty alleviation but, by reducing
water pollution and the incidence of waterborne diseases, by providing
increased volume of water resulting from infrastructure rehabilitation,
and by improving water allocation it will help alleviate poverty
indirectly. Moreover, employment opportunities for the poor will be
substantially enhanced through increased employment in construction of
civil works associated with the project. The project emphasis on
beneficiary participation would help ensure that beneficiary needs,
including that of the poor, are integrated in all major decisions and
service quality affordable and sustainable.
Amount:                    US$10 million and FRF 59 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Terms:                     IBRD Loan - repayment over 20 years including a 5 year grace period at
the standard LIBOR/PIBOR based variable rates for single currency
loans.
Commitment Fee:             0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing
less any waiver.
Financing Plan:             See para. 3.3 (Table 2) of SAR.
Economic Rate of Return:   Economic analysis was carried out for three major components with a
total cost of US$10.8 million (covering about 43 percent of the total
project costs). NPV for these components was estimated about US$43.5
million (using a discount rate of 10%). Economic Rates of Return for
these components averaged about 48 percent.
Maps:                      IBRD No: 28053, 25478R






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1          Situated on the northwest coast of Africa, Morocco is subject to highly diverse climatic
conditionis. The climate in the north is Mediterranean, the south is part of the arid Sahara, the west is
subject to Atlantic influences, and in the east the high Atlas has its own microclimates. Average annual
rainfall varies from 750 mm per year in the Mediterranean region of Loukkos to under 100 mm in the
Saharan regions of Ouarzazate and Tafilalet. Total precipitation for Morocco averages 150 billion m3 per
year, 29 billion of which replenish surface and groundwater flows, while the remainder is lost to
evaporation. The challenges associated with the uneven geographical distribution of Morocco's water
resources are compounded by the uneven and erratic nature of rainfall. Most precipitation occurs between
October and April. Morocco is highly susceptible to long periods (one to six years) of drought. This creates
highly variable surface flows and threatens water supplies to households and fanners alike. Total water
3
resources available for mobilization is estimated at 20 billion m of which 11 billion (about 50 percent) are
currenitly used.
1.2          The population is concentrated in the fertile plains, coastal areas and major towns of the
northwest (Rabat, Casablanca). The older urban concentrations of Fez, Marrakech, and Meknes are located
further inland. Most economic activity traditionally has centered in these northern and primarily coastal
urban areas and development elsewhere in Morocco has been slow, further encouraging urban migration.
Water management plays a central role in the Moroccan economy as social welfare and the livelihood of
virtually all rural inhabitants hinges on it. Water management is also vital to enhancing health, mostly
through the improvement in supply, transport and storage of potable water. Untreated water remains the
primary cause of ill-healtlh in the rural areas.
1.3          Water resource development has facilitated agricultural and urban growth and has played a
vital role in poverty alleviation. Agriculture provides a livelihood to 40 percent of the economically active
population and contributes around 17 percent of GDP. Changes in output due to variations in weather have
a multiplier effect on overall economic activity, with serious consequences for incomes. Although 75
percent of the rural population live in rainfed areas, many migrate to irrigated areas for seasonal
employment.  The Government's rural development strategy has focused on improving the modem
irrigation sector to achieve food security and expand agricultural exports. Improvements in the irrigated
areas also contribute to increasing employment potential in higher-value activities, and by lowering the
risk of climatic failures like droughts.



2
B. Sector Overview
1.4          The water resources sector consists of the traditional subsectors, namely urban and rural
potable water supply, irrigation and hydropower. The Government objective for the potable water supply
subsector is to suLpply virtually the entire rural and urban population with potable water by the year 2020.
The urban water supply subsector is relatively well developed and Government's objective was almost
reached for the urban population in 1990. The goal is to connect 90 percent of the urban population to
treated water supply by the year 2000. In contrast, in the rural areas, where half of the population lives, only
14 percent of households have secure water supply and the target is to provide 80 percent of the population
by the year 2010.
1.5           While Morocco has been successful in providing potable water supply to its urban
population of about 14 million, rural water supply and sanitation have been developed on a very limited
basis. While water service is currently provided to 76 percent of the total population through house
connections and 14 percent througlh public standpipes, only 65 percent of the urban inhabitants and 35
percent of the rural population are provided with sanitation (through sewerage and indoor sanitation
systems,i.
1.6           The irrigation subsector is relatively well-developed. Irrigation accounts for nearly 85
percent of mobilized water resources and its history is integrally linked with that of water resources
development. Of Morocco's 71 million hectares, 21 million are classified as rangeland and 9 million as
cultivable land. Due to cropping patterns that include fallow periods, actual land cultivated in any year
averages seven million hectares. Morocco's irrigated agricultural sector totals about one million hectares,
commonly divided into large-scale irrigation (LSI), and small and medium-scale irrigation (SMI). The
modern LSI perimeters cover about 500,000 hectares administered by the ORMVAs, while 400,000
hectares of SMI are mainly traditional systems operated by local communities for subsistence agriculture
and vegetable marketing. In addition, the modern private sector covers about 100,000 hectares.
1.7           The Govemment objectives of the irrigation subsector are to increase food security by
efficiently producing strategic food products, increase agricultural incomes and employment by improving
on-farn  productivity, conserve natural resources, and encourage the integration of agriculture into
international and local markets. To achieve its objectives, the Government has built a modern and relatively
efficient infrastructure and provided farmers with research and extension services in the irrigation
perimeters. The ongoing expansion of mouern irrigation is expected to bring the total irrigated area to 1.2
million hectares by 2000. However, the Government recognizes that greater attention slhould be paid to the
conservation and protection of water resources and to increasing on- and off-farm water efficiency.
1.8            Hydropower contributes about 8 percent of the country's total energy production.
Government objective is to develop it as an important source of energy to meet the growing energy demand,
especially at peak hours. Hydropower production was equal to 855 KWh representing close to 8 percent of
total energy production in 1995 and installed hydropower capacity reached 927 megawatts, about 27
percent of total installed power. It saves almost 700,000 tons of oil per year. Hydropower capacity is,
however, constrained by the priority accorded to potable and agricultural water use as well as by the lack of
dam sites suitable for hydropower production.



3
C. Issues and Constraints
1.9           Despite remarkable achievements, Morocco faces a growing challenge in the water sector.
The main issues are: (a) decline in available water resources and degradation of water quality in some of the
primary basins resulting in the rapidly rising marginal cost of water and sharp increases in investment costs
for water mobilization; (b) very low levels of provision of potable water to the rural population; (c) low
water use efficiency in irrigation; (d) ineffective use of existing infrastructure due to inadequate
maintenance and the silting of dams reservoirs due to erosion in the watersheds; and (e) weak institutional
capacity to plan, monitor and implement projects and programs. In addition, there is need to develop a
rational mechanism for inter-sectoral allocation, introduce economic principles in investment and policy
decision and to adopt a coherent water strategy and planning to guide its effective use and management.
1.10            Growing Water Scarcity and Deteriorating Oualitv. Per capita water resources available
for mobilization are expected to fall from 837mr3 in 1990 to 514m3 in 2020. In 2020, it is projected that
Morocco will move from being defined as a "water-stressed" to being a "chronically water-stressed"
countryI A growing scarcity is anticipated as a result of rising demands, resulting from rapid expansion of
irrigated areas and urban development, and a slowing of the growth in available supplies (resulting from the
exploitation of more marginal supplies), the depletion of aquifers and the pollution of available resources.
1.11           The sewerage sub-sector is also grossly underdeveloped. Several densely populated urban
areas are not provided with any sewerage systems, existing systems are undersized and deteriorating and
domestic and industrial liquid wastes are mostly discharged untreated. The negative environmental impacts
that have resulted seriously threaten public health in major watersheds (such as Sebou river basin) and
pollute fresh water resources and coastal sea waters. Sanitation infrastructure has not kept pace with
drinking water supply and urban effluent is currently a major contributor to the pollution of surface, coastal
and groundwater. In addition, industrial and agricultural pollution, together with erosion of the watersheds,
has resulted in a degradation of water resources. Polluted water is the major contributor to disease in rural
areas.
1.12          Limited provision of Rural Potable Water. Despite Morocco's remarkable success in
providing potable water to virtually all its urban inhabitants, the provision of rural potable supplies remains
an immediate challenge. Over half of the population lives in rural areas and barely 14 percent have access
to safe and reliable supplies of water. Thie virtual absence of potable water supplies is considered the
primary cause of rural ill-health. Rural families on average devote one and half hours a day to fetching
water and pay vendors up to a hundred times the urban fee charged by the drinking water utilities. In many
cases, domestic and industrial liquid wastes are discharged, or reused for agriculture, without treatment near
residential areas and vital aquifers. Polluted water and unsanitary environmental conditions are major
health risks. Deficient provision of potable water contributes to maintain rural poverty.
1.13           Low Efficiency in Irrigation. Overall water-use efficiency in irrigation including water
conveyance and application operations currently is about 40 percent, i.e., under half of the water delivered
to farms actually reaches the crops. The GOM's objectives of expanding irrigated areas, in the context of
increasingly scarce water supplies and reduced subsidies, pose a severe challenge for the water sector.
Faced with higher water charges, reduced subsidies, advances in trade liberalization and lower output prices
for subsidized commodities (such as sugar, cereals and oilseeds), farmers may be expected to substitute
higher-value and less water-intensive crops. However, the market opportunities for these higlh-value,
irrigated crops may be limited, raising doubts as to the economic viability of some irrigated areas.
The World Bank: "Kingdom of Morocco: Water Sector Review", Report No. 14750-MOR, June 1995.



4
1.14          Ineffective Use of Existing Infrastructure. A key challenge is less than optimal use of the
existing 1hydraulic infrastructure caused by inadequate maintenance of a significant part of the existing
water resources and distribution infrastructure. Dams' siltation has diminished available storage capacity by
as much as 8 percent. Conveyance losses in the primary and secondary irrigation canals and in other
irrigation infrastructure are estimated to be as high as 25 percent. Measures to enhance watershed
management and maintenance of existing infrastructural investments are expected to result in considerable
financial and water savings.
1.15          Weak Institutional Capacity.  Of all the challenges to water resource management,
institutional issues are the most pervasive. Policy-making is largely centralized, with responsibility for
water management resting with the sectoral ministries and agencies responsible for the different end-users
resulting in fragmentation of planning and management.  Water shortages now  demand greater
coordination.
D. Government Reform Approach
1.16          Water Management in Morocco is at a cross roads. Policies and practices which have
served the country well throughout its modern development have been subject to reevaluation by the
Government in the light of growing shortages, escalating costs and deteriorating quality. To meet these
challenges, the Government has embarked on new integrated approach to water resources management
through mutually reinforcing policy and institutional reforms, capacity-building measures, and ilvestment
programs. To this end, the Government intends to: (a) formulate a long-term strategy and a national master
plan for the water sector to guide investment and policy decisions in water resources management; (b)
introduce economic incentives in water allocation decisions through rational tariff and cost recovery; (c)
increase effectiveness of existing hydraulic infrastructure by improving maintenance; and (d) develop a new
legal and institutional framework to promote decentralized management and increase stakeholder
participation. The project will support Government's approach to sector development.
1.17          Formulation of a Long-term Strategy. The definition of a coherent set of short-, medium-
and long-run objectives and the translation of these into a strategy for sustainable water resources
management is a necessary first stage, which is well advanced. A Water Sector Study (1997) prepared by
the Government and financed by a PHRD grant, with the help of local and external consultants, provides the
basic information needed for the formulation of a National Water Strategy. Such a strategy would provide
an integrated vision of water resources management and the essential guidelines for planning and operations
of all water using sector. The National Water Plan would be the vehicle for strategy implementation and
would serve as the framework for investment programs and policy measures until the year 2020.
1.18          Increased Tariff and Cost Recovery. The Government has developed a new set of
guiding principles that give greater weight to sound economic principles in policy decisions and selection
of priority public investments. For example, by 1998, urban water tariffs in six major cities are expected
to cover full operation and maintenance costs of water supply, treatment, distribution and sewerage, and
by 2001, this recovery is expected to include interest payments for capital investment of new projects
(excluding dams). In contrast, the water charges for irrigation seldom cover O&M expenses.
1.19         In the irrigation subsector, the irrigation water tariff has been restructured in June 1996--
the first such effort since enactment of the "Agricultural Investment Code" in 1969 -- introducing a block
scheme with three tranches, with water tariffs ranging from 0.18 to 0.46 MAD/m3. Accordingly, the base
water price for gravity irrigation ("redevance") would increase, on average, from 0.18 MAD to about 0.25



5
MAD per m3, and for sprinkler irrigation, average water tariffs would increase from the current 0.41 to 0.66
MAD per m3. This would mnean an increase by about 50 percent in the price of irrigation water delivered to
farmers in large-scale irrigation systems (about 2.7 billion m3 per year). At an 82 percent recovery rate, this
would bring the ORMVAs close to financial equilibrium. This is a major step in water pricing -- a long
standing issue in Morocco -- thus providing the basis for promoting a credible demand-management
strategy. Higher water charges are expected to increase both efficiency in water use and allocation by
encouraging farmers to shift to the production of higher value crops. Significant changes are expected in
the cropping patterns and irrigation techniques. The relevant decree has been included in the "Loi de
Finances" for FY97, ratified by the Parliament in late February and promulgated on June 30, 1996. The
implementation texts have been issued in October 1997.
1.20          Develop Institutional Framework for Decentralized Management.  To deal with the
management of its water resources in a holistic manner, the GOM promulgated a new Water Law in August
1995 that put in place a new legal and institutional framework for water resources management. (The new
legal framework and major changes introduced by the Water Law in the institutional system are discussed
in section E below).
1.21         The Government is committed to giving a greater role to market mechanisms and to the
promotion of decentralization and greater stakeholder participation in management and increased tariff and
cost recovery. This is most evident in the 1995 Water Law (para. 1.22) and in the urban water supply sub-
sector, where autonomy and financial independence is being granted to ONEP and the Regies. In the
irrigation sub-sector, the decentralization of responsibilities to the ORMVA and to water users is
proceeding slowly. However, the renewed commitment of the authorities in Morocco to decentralization
and privatization provides the context for an acceleration of the process of liberalization of water resource
management. Govermment is currently negotiating the privatization of the water and electricity distribution
in Casablanca through a concession contract awarded to a joint venture Moroccan-foreign company.
E. The New Legal and Institutional Framework
1.22         The 1995 Water Law. Before August 1995, the legislative framework for water resource
management was defined by numerous laws and regulations, some enacted as early as 1914.  This
legislation recognized the established customary water rights and vested the remaining water rights in the
Government. In August 1995, the Government promulgated the Water Law, passed by the Parliament in
July 1995. The Law provides a comprehensive framework for integrated water resource management. The
Law also provides for the establishment of RBAs in individual or group river catchments, and clarifies the
mandates, functions and responsibilities of various institutions including the RBA's in water resources
management.
1.23         The 1995 Water Law also provides for the integration of water quantity and quality
management, the elaboration of national water plan and river basin plans, recovery of costs through charges
for water abstraction, and introduction of a water pollution tax based on the "polluter-pays" principle. In
addition, the Water Law provides for the enforcement of abstraction and effluent discharge permits and
flood control, the participation of user's association in decision-making processes, and sanctions, penalties
and fines for water law violations.
1.24         The Water Law defines water resources as public property and specifies the conditions for
granting permits for exploitation of water. When water is used for irrigation, both the recognized water
rights and authorized permits are linked to the irrigated land and cannot be traded separately. The Law



6
proviides for water quality protection by defining environmental mandates and enforcing sanctions and
penalties. The law recognizes customary water rights if registered before July 2000.
The New Institutional Framework
1.25         The major changes introduced by the Water Law relate to the institutional system for water
resource administration. In particular they relate to: (a) the strengthening of the legal status of the High
Council for Water and Climate (Conseil Superieur de 1'Eau et du Climat CSEC) for improving centralized
coordination of the water sector at large; (b) the preparation of a National Water Plan and Riverbasin Water
Masterplans; and (c) the establishment of River Basin Agencies (RBAs) for decentralized management of
water resources at river basin level .
1.26          The High Council of Water and Climate (CSEC). The status and role of the CSEC has
been enhanced by the Water Law. The CSEC is mandated to coordinate water resource policy development
and National Water Strategy and National Water Plan, including Basin Master Plans. The CSEC will be the
higher advisory body and a forum on national water policies and programs. The CSEC, chaired by the
Prime Minister, is comprised of major stakeholders from public and private sector including water users
association involved in water resources management. A Standing Committee headed by the Minister of
Public Works, will serve as the secretariat of the CSEC. The CSEC meets at least once a year.
1.27         National and Regional Water Masterulans. The 'Water Law specifies that the Government
retains the responsibility for water planning through: (a) River basin masterplans (RBMP), to be prepared
for each of the nine river basins defining objectives and investment program; and (b) National Water Plan
(NWP), defining national priorities for water mobilization and allocation, and required public investments.
The preparation of the National Water Plan will be the responsibility of the MOPW and the RBMP that of
the RBAs. The NWP and RBMP will have a time horizon of 20 years and can be revised every five years.
They will be reviewed by the CSEC and approved by a Government decree.
1.28         The Water Law also specifies that the release of pollutants or polluted water into rivers and
aquifers is either prohibited or by permit delivered by the RBA for which pollution charges would be
collected by the RBA. The RBA is responsible for water quality monitoring. Quality standards will be
defined by the Government and wastewater reuse is subject to a permit.
1.29          The River Basin Agency (RBA). The need to coordinate water management in a single,
integrated mandate is one of the main rationales for River Basin Agency (RBA) creation under the 1995
Water Law. Morocco's territory will be divided into nine RBAs. The first RBA established in Oum-er-
R'bia catchment will be consolidated with Bank support. It would be followed by the establishment of the
second RBA in Sebou Basin. The RBA is a semi-autonomous public agency with legal personality and
financial autonomy and will be established under the trusteeship of the MOPW. It is empowered to manage
individual or groups of river catchments. RBA has a wide range of powers including entering into
contractual arrangements with all types of bodies, agencies and institutions to implement its various
functions, mandates and responsibilities.
1.30         The three principal responsibilities of the RBA consist of the allocation of water rights, the
development of water resources, and the control of water quality. Specifically, the main functions would be
to: (a) develop and implement an integrated Basin Plan for the river catchment; (b) authorize abstractions
and discharges and maintain a public register; (c) collect charges for abstraction and effluent discharges; (d)
provide financial help and technical assistance to public organizations, communities and the private sector
for the prevention of water pollution and the efficient use of water resources; (e) monitor water quality and



7
quantity- both surface and groundwater; (f) develop an adequate response system to emergencies; and (g)
develop appropriate measures to increase public awareness and public education on water resource
management. Water allocation would be administered through the issuance of water use permits. The
production of integrated catchment management plans, the operation and maintenance of infrastructure, the
authorizations for abstractions, the flood defense and the granting of permits of discharge responsibilities
will be transferred to the RBA. The water resources inventory (e.g. water levels, flows,) within the river
catchment which currently is under the DRH of the MOPW will become the responsibility of the RBA. The
transfer of responsibilities and duties to the RBA would be evolutionary as part of a learning process,
which, over time, is expected to approach the goal of optimal coordination and efficient management of
water resources.
1.31         The RBA will be administered by a Board of Directors (Conseil d'Administration) chaired
by the Ministry of Public Works, and comprised of representatives of all ministries currently involved in
water management, local Governments, water user's associations, and other stakeholders (academics,
chambers of commerce). This broad representation of major stakeholders involved in water resources
management will have a critical role in achieving a large degree of consensus during decision making
process. The day-to-day management rests with a Director General (DG) appointed by the Minister of
Public Works. The DG of the RBA will report to the Board which will be chaired by the Minister of Public
Works. RBAs will be staffed from MOPW's regional and provincial offices.
1.32         Imnpleentation Qf the Water Law. To implement the Water Law, several implementation
decrees and regulations are required, some being critical for the implementation of the proposed project.
Their promulgation was a condition of negotiations. They include the decree related to the establishment of
the RBA of Oum-er-R'bia, and the decree related to the organization and functions of the High Council of
Water and Climate. Other important decrees will assist the RBA in implementing its various mandates.
These include decrees related to: (i) establishment of rates for water abstraction, (ii) charges for bulk water
and effluent discharge, (iii) permits for water abstraction and drilling, (iv) levels of industrial wastewater
and other pollutants discharged into the water system, and (v) permits for wastewater discharge.
1.33         Other decrees and regulations are also required for the full implementation of the Water
Law. They include decrees related to: (a) the establishment of the National Water Plan and master plans;
(b) the procedure of recognition of the acquired rights on the public domain; (c) decree on artificial
accumulation of water; (d) the technical conditions of drilling; (e) water quality norms and standards of
surface and groundwater water; (f) water pollution inventory; (g) the use, treatment and re-use of
wastewater; (h) decree on the proclamation of situation of drought; (i) environmental impact assessment;
and (j) local government commissions on water.
1.34         These actions will take time. Clearly, Morocco is moving in the right direction - towards a
more effective management of water. It is anticipated this change program will be supported by a series of
projects of which this is the first.
F. Bank Involvement and Lessons Learned
1.35         The Bank has been closely involved in the Moroccan water sector for over 30 years.
Through its sector work, lending and technical assistance, the Bank has taken a lead in providing donor
support for the Moroccan water sector. To date, 23 loans and credits have been made totaling US$1,182
million, and five more projects are in the pipeline adding around US$450 million in new loans for the water
sector.



8
1.36          In the urban sub-sector, five loans directed at water supply and two sewerage development
have strengthened the sub-sector institutions, expanded water supplies to the urban areas and increased cost
recovery. The Second Sewerage project focuses on reducing urban pollution through expansion of the
sewerage and wastewater treatment systems while establislhing an appropriate cost recovery scheme. In the
irrigation subsector, nine loans have been made, of which five focused on expanding the area under large-
scale irrigation, two supported small-scale irrigation development, and two supported the rehabilitation of
the large-scale irrigation.
1.37          Through these projects, progress has been made in water efficiency and in improving
financial performance. Much, however, remains to be done at the sub-sectoral level, not least withi respect
to coslt recovery, rural water supplies, sewerage and irrigation demand management. These concenis are
receiving attention. The Fifth Water Supply Project (FY94) supports reforms aimed at achieving full cost
recovery in urban water supply. Meanwhile, the Second Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
(FY93) focuses on1 the rehabilitation of existing perimeters with a view to improving efficiency of water
use, cost recovery and users' participation.
1.38          A large share of future Bank lending to Morocco will continue to be devoted to the water
sector. Projects in the pipeline for implementation over the next few years will serve to enhance
performnance at the subsectoral level. All these sub-sector projects reflect growing concerns regarding water
scarcity and water quality. The Emergency Drought Recovery Project (FY96) seeks to rectify imbalances
caused by recurring drought and the significant destabilizing impact on the economy.  The Second
Sewerage and Water Reuse Project (FY96) defines a long-term national program along with a master plan
for the sewerage sub-sector, covering cities and large towns. Investments will be implemented in Fes and
the project is expected to play a significant role in reversing the decline in water quality of the Sebou river.
Watershbed issues, notably land erosion and reservoir siltation will be addressed through a Watershed
Management Project (FY98). Th e Second Environmental Management Project (FY98) and the Second
Sewerage and Water Reuse Project are expected to assist the Government in overcoming critical problems
in water quality management through investments in the treatment of industrial and domestic pollution and
solid waste management in the vital Sebou river basin. In addition, a new investment operation in the long-
neglected rural water supply subsectors has started (Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project FY98).
1.39          The short term focus of the Bank's lending activities (to FY98) is in environmental
management and irrigation improvement. These activities will be complemented by a number of capacity-
building efforts, including the recently approved Environmental Management Project, a series of EDI
workshops initiated in Morocco in spring 1994, and the Bank supported Mediterranean Environmental
Technical Assistance Program (METAP) activities. These projects and the associated technical assistance
are expected to make significant progress in overcoming the weaknesses in capacity to manage irrigation,
environmental and water supply projects.
1.40          Lessons Learned. The Bank recognizes the urgency of water issues and that water as a
limited resources should be managed in an integrated manner to meet national objectives as articulated in its
policy paper (World Bank, 1993) which is a departure from its past practices of fragmentary support of ad-
hoc projects focusing on specific sectors. The proposed project draws on the relevant discussion of the
water issues articulated in the Morocco Water Sector Review. In particular, it reflects that policy and
institutional reform and capacity building are critical to sustaining policies, programs and projects. These
considerations are particularly acute in irrigation stemming from poor efficiency in water use, inadequate
cost recovery as well as the need to introduce efficiency criteria into allocative decisions.



9
G. Bank's Strategic Orientation and Rationale for Involvement
1.41         The Bank recently adopted integrated approach to water resources management marks a
break with past policies. The new strategy reflects a major shift in the Bank's vision as articulated in the
Bank's Policy Paper2.
1.42         Important pieces of sector work have provided a framework for a sector wide strategy and
policy formulation, and enabled a broad-based policy dialogue with the Government. The Water Sector
Review (1995) provided the framework for a national water resource management strategy and
recommended Bank investment lending to the proposed first water resource management project. The
Water Sector Study (1997)3 provides the basis required for formulating strategy for water resource
management. In addition, the Watershed Management Study (1995) provided the investment proposals in
dam siltation control supported under the proposed project.  Bank-supervised consultants are currently
preparing the recommendations for the definition of national Water Quality Standards (1998), which will
define pollution control strategy in the Sebou river basin. A major Integrated Rural Development Sector
Study (1997) carried out by the Bank has the objective of providing a comprehensive analysis of the
contribution of water resource management to poverty alleviation in the rural areas.
1.43         The Government shares the concept and is committed to pursuing an integrated approach to
water management which recently has been formally adopted by the Bank. New approaches are, therefore,
required to meet these challenges. In meeting this challenge, and in pursuing an integrated approach to
water resource management, the Government has requested the Bank's assistance.
1.44         The proposed project is the culmination of a series of actions in project and sector work the
Bank has undertaken to assist the Govemment. Through economic and sector work, policy dialogue and
lending, the Bank is assisting the Government in the design of strategies and policies for establishing the
legal and institutional framework necessary for efficient, equitable and environmentally sound water
resources management. The Bank would also assist in the evaluation, and financing of sustainable
investments and in securing cofinancing. For over three decades, the Bank has provided extensive support
for sub-sectorial activities (para. 1.35-1.40). Now in response to Government requests and its own water
policy, the Bank is expanding the scope of its portfolio in the water sector and implementing a new
integrated approach to water resource management in Morocco.  The project starts a program  of
interventions expected to support important policy reforms, institutional development, capacity building
measures and direct investments which are priority operations and consistent with Government's emerging
strategy (para. 1.17). Successful implementation of this project is expected to develop an institutional and
policy framework and required capacity for the future into which other donors can join and support through
follow-up projects. The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Morocco, the Bank's Water Resource Policy Paper and MENA's Strategy for Managing Water. It also
reflects the priorities defined in the Bank's Morocco Water Sector Review and the Environment Strategy
Note.
2      The World Bank: "Water Resources Management: A Policy Paper", April 30, 1993.
Royaume du Maroc - Ministere des Travaux Publics - Etude du Secteur de l'Eau.



10
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.1           The Moroccan authorities requested the Bank to assist them  in the formulation and
implementation of a comprehensive water resources management strategy. As a first step, the Bank
responded by carrying out a Water Sector Review which assessed the Moroccan water sector and proposed
changes needed to meet the challenges. The review provided the basis for further Government reflection,
and recommended an integrated approach in the management of water resources in Morocco. This was
discussed at a two day conference, "Journees de reflexion", with key Government officials, who endorsed
the prinlciple of an integrated approach for implementation.
2.2          This first project would focus on the chronically stressed Oum-er-R'bia river basin and is
designed to provide a model to demonstrate the beneficial effects of integrated river basin water resources
management to be replicated in the Sebou river basin. In the selection of investments, the principal criteria
was their contribution to enhancing integrated water resources management based on sound economic
principles and assessment of environmental impact.
B. Project Objectives and Summary
Project Objectives
2.3           The principal objective of the project is to assist Government in promoting comprehensive
water management that is economically efficient, equitable and environmentally sustainable. Specifically,
the project would have the objectives of: (a) supporting the establishment of an institutional framework for
integrated water resources management and the creation of the River Basin Agency (RBA); (b) improving
capacity in water resources planning and management; (c) improving water use efficiency; (d) increasing
the eff'ectiveness of existing hydraulic infrastructure; and (e) introducing water pollution control measures.
Project Summary
2.4           To achieve these objectives, the project would include the following components:
(a) Policy Reforms and Institutional Development, to promote integrated water resources management,
establish a rational tariff policy, increase cost recovery, and promote decentralized water management
through the establishment of Morocco's first RBA; (b) Capacity Building in water resource planning,
information systems and technology to improve national and river basin planninlg, monitoring, and
management capability and  foster water conservation technology through applied research; and
(c) Investments in water mobilization and quality to improve productivity and sustainability of plhysical
infrastructure through the rehabilitation and maintenance of dams, safety monitoring and groundwater
develolpment for reliable water supply. Lastly, water quality would be improved througlh constructiotn of
sewerage systems in small urban centers. The latter program would be complemented by improved public
education campaigns to combat waterborne diseases.



11
C. Detailed Features
Policy Reforms and Institutional Development (total cost US$3.32 million)
2.5           The project would support: (a) preparation of a long-term National Water Plan; (b) the
implementation of policy-related analytical studies on bulk water pricing; and (c) the establishment of the
first River Basin Agency (RBA) in the Oum-er-R'bia basin. The project would include a Letter of
Development Policy (LODP) and policy matrix. The main points to be included in the letter and policy
matrix have been discussed with key Government officials. The Policy matrix provides an operational
content to the letter and indicates the concrete policy measures to be undertaken in the project. The policy
letter would confirm the commitment of the Government to key policy regulatory and institutional reforms.
The Draft Letter and Policy matrix are attached as Annex I and 2 respectively.  As a condition of
negotiations. the Government has provided to the Bank a draft Letter of Development Policy (LODP) and in
January 1998. the signed LODP was received by the Bank
2.6           National Water Plan (US$2.10 million). The project would support the preparation of a
National Water Plan (NWP) as defined in the Water Law and the associated decrees. The NWP would
define the short, medium and long-term investments and actions at the national and river basin level. The
plan would cover the period 2000-2020 and would include an update of the regional master plans.
2.7           Analytical Policy Studies (US$0.17 million). The project would finance a study dealing
with water pricing for bulk water, with the objective of evaluating the potential impact of alternatives bulk
water pricing schemes on water use efficiency in different sub-sectors, on the user incomes and on the
financial viability of water agencies (e. g. ORMVA, ONEP, ONE).
2.8           Establishment of the River Basin Agency (RBA) (US$1.05 million). The project would
support the establishment of the first RBA in the Oum-er-R'bia (OER) basin by financing key activities
required for its establishment witlh a view to making it fully operational by February 28, 1998. This would
include in particular, the provision of technical assistance and procurement of equipment. The project
would also finance consultancies to help the RBA establish its technical capacity in water plannling and
management. (Details on the RBA mandate and organizational structure are provided in Annex 3). As a
condition of negotiations. the Government has: (a) set-up the River Basin Agency in the Oum-er-R'bia
basin: and (b) completed the transfer of assets. appointed the Director and staff. and allocated budget for FY
1998.
2.9           The project would support the introduction of water charges for the River Basin Agency
(RBA)4 in the Oum-er-R'bia, taking into account the need to establish a financially viable RBA. The
proposed clharges are on bulk water, pollution and flood protection. The water charge would cover full
recovery of O&M cost and gradually moving towards increased recovery of investment costs. As a
condition of Board Presentation. the Government has issued a decree which enables levying of tariff on
bulk water and effluent discharge.
4      A consultant study has been carried out with Bank supervision which provided the analytical basis for
determining specific water charges and provided alternative tariff options based on various scenarios and cost
recovery to be applied by the RBA in OER.



12
Capacity Building in Water Resource Planning. Information Systems and Technology Improvement
(total cost USS16.10 million)
2.10          This component would strengtlhen Government capacity through improved procedures,
information systems and technology for effective and efficient water resources management in four critical
areas, namely: (a) water resource planning; (b) water resource allocation; (c) water conservation in
irrigation; and (d) healtlh aspects of water quality. This component would finance equipment, training,
studies and technical assistance.
Water Resource Planning.
2.11          The project would strengthen DGH's capability for planning, monitoring and evaluation of
water resource development, water allocation and water quality control. To this end, the project would
support: (a) a technical assistance and training program; (b) the preparation of master plan and action plan
for flood control; and (c) the preparation of an emergency plan for wvater pollution.
2.12          DGH Strengthening (US$1.64 million). The project would support strengthening the
capacity of the DGH in water resource planning, information systems, monitoring and evaluation through a
technical assistance and training program. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would enter into a contractual agreement with the FAO to implement the technical assistance and training
program agreed with the Bank. The signing of the T/A agreement with the FAO would be not later than
July 1l 1998.
2.13          Master Plan and Action Plan for Flood Protection (US$1.05 million). The project would
support the preparation of a countrywide flood protection master plan for the most vulnerable urban and
rural areas. The project would finance the required consultant services, estimated at 60 man-months.
2.14          Action Plan for Water Quality Protection (US$1.09 million). The project would support
the preparation of: (a) a countrywide inventory of sites where water resources are particularly vulnerable to
accidental pollution; and (b) an emergency action plan with preventive and corrective measures. The
project would finance the required consultant services, estimated at a total of 73 man-months. As a
conditioni for Board Presentation. the Government has issued a decree which introduces water quality norms
and standards.
Water Resource Allocation (US$8.11 million).
2.15          The project would support the installation and development of a comprehensive real time
water management system in the Oum-er-R'bia basin, including an automatic flow metering system and
computerized decision support system (US$6.76 million) and the installation of some 12 new
meteorological stations and the procurement of processing equipment (US$1.35 million). The project
would finance: (a) installation of automatic flow metering stations, and associated equipment to be operated
by RBA., and automatic meteorological stations to be operated by the "Direction de la Meteorologie
Nationale"; (b) establishment of telecommunication connections; (c) procurement of computers and specific
software applications for data processing and decision support; and (e) training of DGH/RBA/DRH/DMN
staff.



13
Water Conservation in Irrigation (US$3.15 million)
2.16          The project would support a priority program of applied research in water conservation in
irrigation in the Oum-er-R'bia and Souss Massa Basin. The research program would primarily focus on
water requirements for the main crops, improved irrigation methods and measures to control salinity and
nitrate pollution in the large-scale irrigation schemes.  The project would strengthen: (a) the field
experimental research stations in OER and Souss-Massa basin; and (b) the capacity of the AGR's research
center in Rabat. The project would finance equipment, technical assistance and incremental operating costs.
2.17          The project would also finance a study to review and evaluate the challenges facing the
private modern irrigation sector to identify priority needs in agricultural research and technology
improvements in irrigation. This would require consultant services estimated at 15 man-months.
Health Aspects of Water Quality (US$1.06 million!.
2.18          The project would support the MOH program to control waterborne diseases in the OER
basin. The project would finance equipment, technical assistance, training and initial operating costs
estimated at 15 man-months.
Inyestments in Water Mobilization and Quality (total cost US$6.18 million)
2.19          The principal criterion for the selection of these investments has been their contribution to
enhancing water resources management based on sound economic principles through applying best
practices. (Details on the cost-benefit analysis are provided in Annex 9 and the technical parameters are
provided in a working paper listed in Annex 12).
2.20          The project would support an important operation aimed at improving the mobilization of
additional surface water resource, namely: the reconstruction of the concrete face of the Nakhla dam
(US$1.81 million). The project would also support the mobilization of additional groundwater resource
through artificial recharge of the Souss aquifer in the Agadir region (US$2.16 million) and the study of the
Triffa Plain aquifer (US$1.67 million). This activity should not affect the aquifers in neighboring countries.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations tlhat. in accordance with OP 4.37. DGH would seek the expertise
of the Laboratoire Public d'Essais et d'Etudes (LPEE) to review the safety aspects of Nakhla darn as
follows: (a) review the investigation. design. the construction and the start of the dam operation: (b) inspect
and evaluate before the completion of the construction the Borrower's operation and maintenance
procedures and the safety status of the dam. review the proposed safety measures. and suggest
modifications if necessary: and (c) annually inspect the dam after the completion of the remedial work.
2.21          To study ways of improving the water quality in the OER river, the project would support
the preparation of Water Quality Improvement Plan (US$0.53 million). The Plan would be prepared by
DGH using international consultants (6 man-months) and local consultants (18 man- months). This plan
would take into account the industrial, domestic and agriculture pollution and would deal with surface water
as well as groundwater. The plan would also take into consideration all technical, economic and
environmental aspects. The MOPW would present the plan to the Bank 24 months after the loan
effectiveness. In addition, to improve the water quality in OER river, the GOM is actively seeking finance
in form of grants from the EU KfW, etc.. to support the construction of urban sewerage systems including
wastewater treatment stations for 5-8 small and medium towns located within Central Oum-er-R'bia basin.
Tendering procedures for one of these stations (Afourer) is already underway.



14
III. COSTS AND FINANC][NG
A. Cost Estimates
3.1            The total cost of the project is estimated at US$25.6 million (243 MAD) including physical
and price contingencies. The foreign exchange portion is approximately US$13.76 million (about 131
MAD), total taxes and duties estimated at US$3.9 million (37 MAD) or 15 percent of total project cost.
3.2            Physical contingencies were applied to baseline costs at the rate of 15 percent for civil
works, and 10 percent for equipment, vehicles and materials. Price contingencies of 3.3 percent in 1996,
2.3 percent in 1997, and 2.5 percent in 1998-2001 have been applied to the foreign exchange component of
costs so as to reflect estimated international inflation. Likewise for local costs, price contingencies were
added at 5 percent for each year during 1997-2001. Project costs cover investment on civil works,
equipment, facilities, training and consultancies. The estimated total project costs are provided below and
detailed in Annex 10.
Estimated Project Costs
Table I
Project Component                   Local     Foreign    Total           Local     Foreign    Total
---------MAD-------------             --------US$ M---------
i1.  Policy Reform and Institutional   11.8       15.0      26.8              1.2       1.6      2.8
Development
11.  Capacity Building                 54.3        74.8    129.1              5.7       7.9      13.6
111. Direct Investments                25.0       21.9      46.9             2.6        2.3      4.9
Total Base Cost              91.1       111.7    202.8             9.5       11.8     21.3
Physical Contingencies             10.7       11.8     22.5               1.2       1.3      2.5
PriceContingencies                 10.6        7.2      17.8             1.1        0.7      1 8
Total Project Cost"         112.4      130.7    243. 1             11.8      13.8     25.6
"Including taxes and duties equivalent to approximately US$3.9 million (37 MAD).
B. Financing
3.3            Financing Plan. The proposed IBRD loan of US$20 millioni equivalent would finance 78
percent of the total project costs (or 92 percent exclusive of taxes and duties) with US$13.8 million to cover
the equivalent of 100 percent of the foreign exchange and US$6.2 million to cover 52 percent of local costs.
The Government budget would finance US$5.6 million equivalent (including US$3.92 million taxes and
duties) to cover about 48 percent of the local cost of the project.
Project Financing Plan
Table 2
Local          Foreign             Total
Source of Funds                    --------------US$ M---------------
GOM                  5.6               ---               5.6
IBRD                 6.2              13.8              20.0
Total Costs                         11.8             13.8              25.6



15
3.4          Total project financing would be taken in charge by the Government's budget (Ministry of
Finance). After obtaining a loan from the World Bank the Government would transfer these funds to the
investrnent budget of the respective government organizations involved in project implementation: the
DGH in the MOPW, the ORMVA in the MOA the MOH, and ONEP.
3.5          Financing in a grant form to cover the investment cost of the water quality component is
foreseen by GOM. The EU supports the integrated water resources management approach being pursued by
Morocco. Discussion on EU funding for Morocco under the Fifth Protocol (1997-99 period) took place in
Morocco in December, 1995. Tendering for one water treatment station (Afourer) is underway and works
are expected to start before the end of 1998. Both the Directorate of Budget in the Ministry of Finance, and
ONEP are convinced that wastewater treatnent and related collection network rehabilitation are necessary.
Under two recent EU-MEDA grant funds, ONEP (a national water supply agency under the jurisdiction of
the MOPW) is preparing sanitation master plans for eight small- and medium-size cities, and will
rehabilitate wastewater collection networks in three cities. Those cities where master plan preparation is
most advanced -- Fqih-beni-Salah, Kasba-Tadla, Oued Zem, Afourer and Khourigba -- will be included in
negotiations with the EU.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
A. Organization and Management
Management and Implementation.
4.1          Management. The Director General of the DGH in the MOPW would have overall
responsibility for project implementation. The day-to-day management of project sub-components would
be the responsibility of the respective ministries involved in the project. The DGH of the Ministry of Public
Works (MOPW), in charge of technical coordination during project preparation, would be responsible for
the policy reform, institutional development and capacity building components and a large proportion of the
direct investment components. The AGR of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) which currently is
responsible for irrigated agriculture would implement the water conservation in irrigation and studies on
privatization sub-component. The Ministry of Public Health would be responsible for the water quality sub-
component dealing with public health. The Ministry of Environment would be responsible for setting the
water quality standards and monitor the environmental impact of the infrastructure works supported by the
project.
4.2          Implementation. Implementation would be over a four-year period from June 1, 1998, and
ending in June 2002. (Implementation schedule is provided in Annex 4).
Coordination and Monitoring
4.3          The coordination of project implementation would be the responsibility of the DGH and
would be organized and supported as follows:
(a)    The Technical Coordinating Committee (TCC) ("Comite de Coordination
Technique"), already created under DGH to coordinate project preparation would be
responsible for inter-agency coordination on technical matters. The TCC would be
responsible for: (i) periodic review of progress in implementation; (ii) taking appropriate



16
measures to keep project implementation on schedule; and (iii) review and approval of
annual implementation plan and semi-annual progress report. It would meet as required,
but at least once per quarter. The TCC would include representatives from key ministries
involved in water resources management and would be chaired by the Director General of
DGH.
(b)    The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be responsible for the day-to-day
operations of project implementation. It would: (i) oversee DGH's contribution to the
Project, including that of the RBA; (ii) prepare and update the annual implementation
program of the whole project; (iii) process disbursement requests; and (iv) prepare the
semi-annual progress report on project implementation. The PIU has been established in
November 1997 and placed under the responsibility of the DGH, and headed by a Project
Coordinator, assisted by three assistants (technical, administrative and accounting).
4.4           Implementation Capacity. The capacity of the lead agencies to implement the project has
been carefully evaluated. Their capacity to implement the legal, institutional development, and policy
reforms are regarded satisfactory, and their technical capacity to implement the project activities aimed at
improving the mobilization of water resources i.e. operation of reservoir, flood control, and dam safety is
regarded of high quality except the Regies for which technical assistance to support in bid document
preparation, procurement and work supervision will be provided by the project. However, there is
inadequate capacity in water resource planning and analysis, and real time operations involving
improvement in iniformation system and modern technology. The project will provide technical assistance
and capacity improvement.
B. Establishment of the RBA in Oum-er-R'bia
4.5           The RBA has been established in the Oum-er-R'bia (OER)5. It would be managed by a
Board, comprising representatives from the public institutions (60 percent), consisting of the Minister of
Public Wiorks as Chainnan, representatives from the seven other ministries involved in water management,
(Agriculture, Energy, Environment, Public Health, Finance, Interior, and Industry) and 40 percent from
NGOs, private sector and users association. The members of the Board are broadly defined to include major
stakeholder groups. (Details on the responsibilities and organizational structure of the RBA are provided in
paras. 1.29- 1.31)
4.6           To support the initial phase of the establishment of ithe RBA, the DG of the RBA would be
appointed and a small secretarial support unit would be set up. Thie staff of the unit would be seconded
from other departments and would consist of: (a) a senior personnel manager for staff recruitment; (b) an
accountant to prepare the budget to set-up the agency and cover operational expenses; and (c) secretarial
support staff for the Board, and to support the management team in the recruitment process. To effectively
set-up the RBA, the Government will put in place the organizational structure, appoint the Board of
Directors, RBA Director and key management staff and allocate appropriate budget for 1998.
4.7           Water Charges. The Government would establish water charges that ensure the RBA's
financial viability and sustainability. These include abstraction, effluent and flood protection charges. The
time frarne required for the agency to become self-financing depends on the level of charges and the cost
5      The RBA in OER basin represents 35,000 km2, 2.4 million people and 3,700 m3 of water.



17
recovery targets authorized for the RBA. Because of the likely difficulties in adopting the charges for
abstraction, it is unlikely that the RBA will be self-financing during its first years of operation. The RBA
will, therefore, at least in its first years, have to partially rely on public funds. The main abstractors/users of
water are public organizations (ORMVA's, ONEP).
C. Monitoring of Project Implementation and Bank Supervision
4.8           Progress Review. An action-oriented progress review, planning and budgeting process
would be the pivotal feature of the project management. This would take the form of a semi-annual
progress report including key issues and recommendations for actions. The report would provide a candid
assessment of project implementation by quantifying and comparing progress with agreed targets in the
SAR. Indicators to be monitored would include staff training, technical assistance, establishment of the
RBA, and physical progress including procurement and disbursement expenditures relative to total
estimated cost for each component. The DGH -- the agency responsible for overall project implementation -
- will prepare progress reports twice a year with direct contribution from the participating agencies.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that two semi-annual progress reports would be prepared each
year and sent to the Bank no later than March 31 and September 30 of each year with the first report due on
September 30. 1998.
4.9           Bank Supervision. To monitor project implementation, there would be at least two Bank
supervision missions annually. Each supervision mission will involve field visits to regional offices, and the
RBA (Annex 5). The semi-annual report and data from the PIU will be the basis of supervision. Monitoring
of project implementation should be facilitated by the fact that the DGH is well established and has
effective procedures for project implementation. During the first year, supervision would focus on progress
of technical assistance and training, adequacy of project coordination and the establishment of the River
Basin Agency in Oum-er-R'bia.
4.10          Monitoring Indicators of Development Impact.  Indicators related to each project
component reflecting the input, output and impact related to that component would be applied to measure
overall progress in meeting project objectives. These indicators were developed to monitor overall progress
in implementation including the impacts of the project. (Annex 11 provides a summary of the important
input, output, outcome and impact indicators).
4.11          Annual Budget and Work Plan. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that: the
executing agencies would provide the Bank with an annual work plan no later than April 30. of each year.
describing the work to be done in the following year. Based on budgetary allocations approved by the
MOF, the Bank and Government will review annual budget and work plan no later than April 30, of each
year with a view to agree on targets and possible changes in scope of the project.
4.12          Mid-Term Review. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Government would
hold a mid-term review no later than January 31. 2000. This review will examine progress with
implementation in project components including training and technical assistance vis-a-vis targets defined
in the SAR based on defined monitoring indicators. The review will also closely examine progress and
effectiveness in the implementation of the policy, institutional reforms in particular the establishment of the
River Basin Agency, and application of tariff on bulk water. As a basis for comparison, the project will
compile relevant data for the first 24 months of project implementation. Based on this analysis, the review
would recommend adjustments in project scope and agree on revised timetable for its implementation.



18
4.13          Project Launch Workshop. A project Start-up Workshop would be organized within one
mont.h of Loan Effectiveness to provide the momentum for a rapid-start up of implementation. The start-up
workshop has three interrelated objectives: (a) publicize the new legal and institutional framework in place
and the new integrated approach to water management being supported by the project; (b) acquaint staff of
the implementation agencies at middle and lower levels, and other stakeholders involved in water resource
management including the private sector with the project design, approach, agreed targets and
implementation strategy; aind (c) offer another opportunity to stakeholders to express their views.
D. Accounts and Audits
4.14          Project Accounts would be maintained by DGH and RBA, which would identify all
projects transactions on an ongoing basis, including contributions from the GOM, and the Loan. At
negotiations. assurances were obtained from GOM that: (i) project accounts. including the Special Account!
would be maintained and audited annually in accordance with sound auditing standards consistently applied
by independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank: and (ii) certified copies of the annual
financial statements and SOEs would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of
each fiscal year (Januarv I to December 30). Audited accounts and reports by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year. The auditor's report should comment separately on project expenditures and on Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) procedures indicating that the audit would include an examination of the
documrentation substantiating expenditures and a verification that (a) project accounts permit identification
of all receipts and payments; (b) goods had been received or work performed; (c) payments had been made;
(d) expenditures had been eligible for the purpose of the project; and (e) the Special Account has been used
appropriately, along with an opinion on the reliability of the SOE procedures and on whether the goods and
services acquired under the project were being utilized in accordance with its objectives. The auditors
would also prepare the audit report including the management letter revealing possible shortcomings in the
staffing, accounting system and efficiency of the internal control procedures.
V. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Procurement
5.1           All procurement of works and goods would be carried out in accordance with Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits". (January 1995, revised January and
August 1996). Consultant, auditing and training services would be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with provisions of the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants (January
1997) by World Bank Borrowers". Internationial Competitive Bidding (ICB) would use the Bank-issued
Standard Bidding Documents for the procurement of works and goods. National competitive Bidding
(NCB) would be based on agreed standard bidding documents for the procurement of works and goods. For
consulting assignments, the standard forms of contract issued by the Bank would be used. Detailed design
of civil works covering the rehabilitation of the upstream of Nakhla darn, flood protection works and
aquifer recharge should be completed by June 1998. Bidding documents for about 40 percent of civil works
and StLidies are being prepared and would be ready by March 1998. The method of procurement to be
followed is provided in Annex 6. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Government would
follow procurement procedures to be agreed with the Bank. (Annex 6).



19
5.2           Civil Works (total cost US$5.2 million). Civil works (approximately US$2.0 million) for
the rehabilitation of Nakhla Dam will be procured in accordance with ICB procedures. The remaining
works largely comprising reconnaissance wells for aquifer studies and groundwater recharge vary in
amount betveen US$0.2 and 2.0 million. These works will be procured through NCB procedures. These
procedures were reviewed by the Bank, and with some agreed upon modifications, have been judged to be
acceptable to the Bank.
5.3           Equipment and materials (total cost US$9.6 million). All contracts for goods, equipment
and materials costing US$400,000 or more (about US$6.0 million) will be awarded following ICB
procedures. Other contracts (not exceeding individually US$400,000 up to an aggregate US$5.0 million)
will be awarded following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Isolated or small lot purchases,
including, in particular, immediate requirements of equipment and materials, individually costing the
equivalent of US$50,000 or less up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million will be procured through
local shopping. Books, periodicals, consumables and proprietary computer software, valued an aggregate
equivalent of US$1.0 million will be procured by direct contracting.
5.4           Consultant services (total cost US$10.4 million). Consultant activities would include: (i)
staff training including visits within Morocco and overseas (US$1.7 million); (ii) studies by local and
foreign consultants on institutional and engineering subjects (US$5.6 million); (iii) technical assistance to
DGH, AGR, and RBA for project implementation (US$2.6 million); and (iv) preparation of custom-made
software for real time operations (US$0.5 million). Consultant services would be contracted on terms and
conditions in accordance with the "Guidelines for the selection and employment of consultants by World
Bank Borrowers - January 1997."
5.5           Review of Contracts. All contracts for civil works at US$750,000 and above, and goods
and equipments valued at US$400,000 and above, all consultant contracts awarded to firms valued at
US$100,000 and above (US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultant contracts) and all sole source
consultant contracts as well as the first two contracts under each of the works, goods and consultant
categories irrespective of the values, would be subject to prior Bank review. All other contracts would be
subject to random post review in the field by visiting supervision missions. This will result in about 70
percent of the project procurement being subject to prior review. GOM has prior experience with Bank
procurement procedures. The DGH staff will be undergoing training in Bank procurement practices and
will have a procurement specialist assigned full-time to the PIU to handle bid and contract documentation.
5.6           Procurement Management. At negotiations. agreement was reached that the Government
would follow the following procurement procedures:
(a)    except where may be specifically agreed by the Bank (for dam rehabilitation and
flood protection works and other needs as may be determined), prequalification procedures
would not be used;
(b)    as a minimum, all bid invitations would be advertised in newspapers with national
circulation and shall contain in summary form the post-qualification requirements. Bid
documents shall be provided promptly upon request, upon payment of the prescribed fee,
and shall be sent by mail upon request;
(c)    prospective bidders shall be allowed at least 30 days from the date of the invitation
to bid (avis d'appel d'offre) to submit bids and the invitation to bid shall so specify;



20
(d)    bids shall be opened in public so that bidders or their representatives are allowed to
be present at the bid opening, and the invitations to bid shall so specify;
(e)    bids shall be evaluated, approvals sought and granted (including that of Bank,
where required) and contracts awarded, all within the validity period, and ajustification for
any exceptions shall be forwarded to the Bank;
(f)    at time of bid opening, the executing entity, in particular DGH would appoint a
suitably qualified individual to prepare a signed and dated Bid Evaluation Report (BER),
following a format and content acceptable to the Bank; and
(g)    DGH's quarterly reports would contain summarized procurement data including
for each contract, the dates of bid invitation, receipt, evaluation, approval and signing, and
the names of contractors bidding, prices offered and firm awarded the contract.
5.7           Detail design on civil works for civil works for the rehabilitation of Nakhla Dam, and
aquifer recharge will be completed by June 1998. Bid documents for about 40 percent of civil works and
TOR for the analytical study related to water pricing will be available by June 1998, to start execution
during the first year of project implementation. The procurement procedure to be followed has been
prepared and has been agreed with Government during negotiations.
5.8           For improving the water quality in the OER River, the Water Improvement Plan is
expected to be ready by March 31, 1999. The decree on the establishment of the RBA was promulgated in
July 1996. The degree to which the Govemment has placed its resources toward early completion of key
institutional and policy decisions has been encouraging and provides a strong foundation for project start up
and ownership.



21
5.9            The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
Table 3
ICB     NCB    Others       NFB         Total Costs
----------------US$ million----------------
Civil Works                      1.8      3.4        -         -             5.2
(1.4)    (2.7)      -         -            (4.1)
Goods                            6.0      2.6       1.0a/      -             9.6
(4.8)    (2.0)    (0.8)       -            (7.6)
Consultant servicesb/             -        -       10.4        -             10.4
-  -   (8.3)b/                  (8.3)
Recurrent Costs                   -        -         -        0.4            0.4
-    -   (-)            (-)I
TotalCost                        7.8      6.0      11.4       0.4           25.6
(6.2)    (4.7)    (9.1)      (-)          (20.0)
Notc:  Figures in brackets are the respective amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan
ICB:   Intemational Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; Others: include consultant
services and domestic shopping.
NFB:  Not financed by the Bank includes parallel cofinancing and incremental operating costs.
a/ National shopping and direct contracting
b/ Includes technical assistance, training and studies
B. Disbursement
5.10           The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$20 million) would be disbursed against:
(a)    80 percent of expenditures on civil works;
(b)    100 percent of foreign expenditures (net of taxes) for goods, or 100 percent of local
ex-factory costs or 70 percent of local expenditures for items procured locally; and
(c)    100 percent of expenditures (net of taxes) on consultants' services, training and
studies.
5.11           Disbursements against civil works contracts exceeding US$750,000 equivalent, equipment
and materials contracts exceeding US$400,000 equivalent, and consultant and training contracts exceeding
US$100,000 would be fully documented (for individual consultants the limit would be US$50,000
equivalent). For all other expenditures, disbursement could be made against Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs). Supporting documents for SOEs would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by
GOM and made available to Bank staff during supervision. The Schedule of Disbursements is presented in
Annex 7.



22
5.12          To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in Moroccan Dirham would be established
at General Treasury of Morocco with an authorized allocation of up to US$2.0 million. This deposit will be
based on estimates of tlhe project financing needs and projected Bank disbursements equivalent to the
average of four months. When the loan becomes effective, the Borrower may request an initial deposit to
the Special Account not exceeding US$1.0 million. Additional deposit up to the authorized amount of
US$2.0 million may be requested when the amounts committed and/or disbursed under the Loan will reach
US$5.0 million. The Special Account will be replenished by submitting withdrawal applications to the
Bank on a montlhly basis, or whenever the account is diminished by one third, whichever sooner.
Replenishment applications submitted against the Special Account will include monthly bank statements
showing account activities since the last application, a reconciliation statement and supporting documents as
required by the Bank.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AN]D ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.1           Through the policy and institutional reforms, capacity building measures and investment
actions, the project is expected to lay the foundations for an integrated approach to water resources
management. In the short-term, the Moroccan economy would benefit from improved efficiency in water
allocation and use due to more efficient services, improved planning and more environmentally sensitive
matnagement. In the long-term, sustainability of water resources management would be enhanced. The
direct investment actions would maximize the benefits and effectiveness of the existing hydraulic
infrastructure and the sewerage systems in small- and medium-sized towlns would contribute to improving
water quality and public health in Morocco. In addition, the project would have positive impacts on public
finance and rural employment. Its impact on the environment is also favorable (paras. 7.1 - 7.5).
6.2           Benefits. The project is expected to have a countrywide benefit through improved water
management in Morocco stemming from: (a) avoidance of damages to the hydraulic infrastructure, thereby
reducing the long-term maintenance costs; (b) increased water availability from recharge of aquifers, real-
time water management and water conservation in irrigation; (c) improved sanitary conditions of the
population through water quality improvement actions which would result in reducing infant mortality,
medical expenditures and production loss due to illness from waterborne diseases; and (d) increased
protection of the water resource quality through control of the urban pollution. In a longer term, the
econom;y at large would benefit from the rationalization of the water development, improved water use
efficiency resulting from policy reforms and capacity building measures supported by the project.
6.3           Beneficiaries. Direct beneficiaries would include about 750,000 people who reside in the
central Oum-er-R'bia basin, of whom approximately 280,000 are irrigation farmers and would benefit from
dependable water resources allocation and reduced water losses. In addition, 200,000 people living in the
Tetouan area would benefit from the increased safety of the Nakhla dam and more dependable water
supplies. The establishment of the RBA is expected to have positive impact for two reasons: (i) incremental
staff required for the RBA would be transferred from regional and provincial offices of the MOPW; and (ii)
RBA will rely on bulk water tariff as a revenue to cover its cost. The project as a whole is not a major draw
on Government. The budgetary impact is minimal compared to total public expenditure on sector and when
compared to the expected long-term benefits.



23
6.4           Impact on public expenditures. The project would also have a positive impact on public
expenditures through: (a) improved prioritization of public investments resulting from more rigorous policy
and project analysis and increased revenue from tariff on bulk water and pollution expected to be introduced
under the project; and (b) establishment of a self financing River Basin Agency expected to achieve full
recovery of operation and maintenance costs and a portion of the investment costs through tariff on bulk
water to be introduced by the Government. The project would transfer the O&M burden from the Treasury
to the beneficiaries (e. g. ORMVAs, ONEP, ONE).
B. Economic Justification
6.5           No shadow exchange rate has been adopted in view of the near-convertibility of the
Moroccan Dirham. The cost estimates of the different component which have been subjected to cost benefit
analysis were converted into economic prices based on the following conversion factors for civil works
(0.77), equipment (0.63), technical assistance and studies (0.83). The project's economic justification is
based on: (a) its short- and long-term effects on water resources management, improved water use
efficiency and rationalization of water resources development; (b) positive impact on public finance through
the tariff and cost recovery policy for the RBA; and (c) direct benefits from economically sound and
environmentally sustainable investments. The policy reform and institutional development component (13
percent of the total project cost) and 40 percent of the capacity building component (or 44 percent of total
project cost) will not be subject to cost-benefit analysis.
6.6           Economic Analysis. Benefits associated with damage avoidance to the hydraulic
infrastructure have been expressed by annuity, based on the extent of the possible damage and the
probability of damage occurrence. Benefits from increased water availability in irrigation, due to water
saving or additional water mobilized have been valued on the basis of its productive value in agricultural
production. Benefits from water destined for drinking water purposes has been valued on the basis of the
consumers' willingness to pay. Benefits from improved sanitary conditions include reduced mortality,
reduction in medical cost associated witlh prevention and treatment of the waterbome diseases and a
reduction in loss in productive work due to illness.
6.7           Three sub-projects (Nakhla Dam, Souss aquifer recharge and Real Time Management),
covering about 43 percent of the total cost of the project (about US$10.8 million) have been subjected to a
conventional cost-benefit analysis. The total NPV of these components, at a discount rate of 10 percent, is
estimated about US$43.5 million. The individual Economic Rate of Returns (ERRs) range from 38 to more
than 120 percent averaging approximately 48 percent, which favorably compares with an opportunity cost
of capital of about 10 percent for Morocco.
6.8           Sensitivity Analysis. A sensitivity analysis on the base case has been carried out to test the
robustness of the ERR of the investment component to less favorable scenarios regarding the increase in
costs, delay in implementation and decrease in benefits or a combination of these events. The sensitivity
analysis has demonstrated that the ERR of the direct investment actions of the project is robust to
uncertainties related to capital costs, delay in project implementation and to combinations of the above
(Annex 9 - para. 12). For each project component switching values have been calculated for costs and
benefits; they range from 293 to 1500% for costs, and 75 to 94% for benefits. The analysis also
demonstrated that the ERR is well above the opportunity cost of capital in Morocco. The DGH has
considerable experience in the implementation of such schemes and cost overruns delays are expected to be
minimal.



24
C. Risks
6.9           Although Government has shown strong commitment to policy and institutional reforms
as reflected in the passage and promulgation new 1995 Water Law, key risks remain. These include: the
extent to which Government will achieve consensus on water sector policy, its timely implementation and
the effectiveness of necessary institutional reforms. Specific aspects to monitor will be tariffs on bulk water
and cost recovery policies for the RBA where key legislation must be passed [(para. 8.3 (a)]. The proposed
policy reforms have been discussed extensively during project preparation and the necessary decrees have
already been drafted that would introduce reforms to support improved planning, decentralization, tariffs
and cost recovery. Given the breadth and depth of the policy, regulatory and institutional reforms is
complex and risk imminent. Therefore, the emphasis should be on the timely initiation of a process
designed to put in place an integrated vision of water management. There is also a standard Moroccan
budgetary risk. In this extent Government has provided assurances that the project is a priority and
sufficient budgetary allocation will be made available.
VII. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT
A. Environmental Impact
7.1           All project components have been reviewed in the light of the environmental requirements
of Morocco and the provisions of OD 4.01. The project would improve the long-term management of water
resources through policy reform and institutional strengthening, supporting actions to conserve water use,
controlling the pollution of surface and groundwater resources, and demonstrating actions for the integrated
water management practices which could be replicated elsewhere in Morocco.
7.2           The project environmental measures (Annex 8) would be monitored by an Environmental
Monitoring Committee "Comite de Suivi Environnemental de l'Agence de Bassin" to be created under the
project. The Committee would be chaired by the RBA of Oum-er-R'bia (DGH) under the guidance of the
Ministry of Environment and the assistance of ONEP cellule de l'environnement. The Committee will
comprise all concerned ministries (MOPW, MOE, MOI, MOA, and MOH).
7.3           The Ground Water Recharge, Water Quality Improvement, and Surface Water Pollution
Control components have positive environmental impacts and environmental issues have been integrated
within tlhe project design, and would be addressed by preparation and implementation of environmental
measures, including mitigation and monitoring plans.
B. Poverty Alleviation
7.4           The project has no direct impact on poverty alleviation but its positive effects on the
environrnent by reducing the incidence of waterborne diseases, by providing increased volume of water
resulting from infrastructure rehabilitation, and by improving water allocation resulting from better
planning and water management, will help alleviate poverty indirectly. Moreover,  employment
opportunities for the poor will be substantially enhanced through increased employment in construction of
civil works associated with the project. The project emphasis on beneficiary participation would help
ensure that beneficiary needs including that of the poor are integrated in all major decisions and service
quality affordable and sustainable.



25
C. Project Sustainability
7.5           The project is expected to lhave a positive effect on water resources management in general
and improved water allocation and water use efficiency in particular. The new regulatory and institutional
framework, the newly established RBA and the policy and institutional reforms would lay the foundation
for a sustainable water resources management by providing a basis and a means for an efficient allocation
of water resources, while simultaneously protecting against aquifer depletion, water pollution and by
ensuring participation of stakeholders in decision making. Moreover, the RBA as a public agency with
financial autonomy, is expected to become self-financing through water charges on bulk water and pollution
tax covering full operation and maintenance cost as well as a portion of future capital costs.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1           As conditions for negotiations. the Government has:
(a)    provided a draft Letter of Development Policy outlining its long-term strategy
and guiding principles for Integrated Water Resource Management (para. 2.5);
(b)    promulgated the decree on: (i) establishment of the RBA in Oum-er-R'bia; and
(ii) organization and functions of the CSEC (para. 2.8);
(c)    set up the RBA in Oum-er-R'bia including the transfer of assets, appointed the
Director, and staff and allocated budget for 1997 (para. 2.8).
8.2           At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would:
(a)    enter into a contract with FAO for the implementation of technical assistance
and training program not later than July 1, 1998 (para. 2.12);
(b)    recruit the "Laboratoire Public d'Essais et d'Etudes - LPEE" to review safety
aspects associated with design, construction and maintenance of the Nakhla dam's
concrete face (para. 2.22);
(c)    prepare two semi-annual progress reports and submit them to the Bank, the first
by January 31, and the second, by July 31, of each year (para. 4.8);
(d)    submit to the Bank annual budget and work plan no later than April 30, of each
year for the following calendar year (para. 4.1 1);
(e)    conduct a mid-term review to examine progress in project implementation no
later than January 31, 2001 (para. 4.12);
(f)    establish project accounts including Special Accounts in the General Treasury of
Morocco. This deposit will be based on estimates of the project's financing needs and
projected Bank disbursements (para. 4.14); and
(g)    follow procurement procedures to be agreed with the Bank (para. 5. 1).



26
8.3           As Conditions of Board Presentation. the GovernMient has:
(a)    issued a decree which enables levying chairges oni bulk water and effluent
discharge to be applied by the RBA; (paras. 2.9 and 4.7); and
(b)    issued a decree introducing norms and standards on water quality (para. 2.14);
(c)    provided the Bank with the singed Letter cf Development Policy ( para. 2.5);
8.4           Recommendation. With these agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a Ban-k loan of US$20.0 million-equivalent at the standard LIBOIVPIBOR based variable rates for single
currency loans with 20 years maturity, including five years of grace.



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1         Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2         Water Policy Framework and Reform
Annex 3         Establishment of the RBA
Annex 4         Implementation Schedule
Annex 5         Supervision Plan
Annex 6         Procurement Schedule
Annex 7         Disbursement Schedule
Annex 8         Environmental Analysis
Annex 9         Economic Analysis
Annex 10        Summary Cost tables
Annex 1 1       Monitoring Indicators of Development Impacts
Annex 12        List of Documents Available in the Project File






Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Draft Letter of Development Policy
Integrated Water Management
The Government is committed to adopt a long-term strategy for an integrated water resources
management combining supply, demand and quality management while addressing economic efficiency and
equity objectives aimed at providing the basis for sustainable economic, social and environmental
development. This strategy will be articulated in a long-run national plan, supported by the WRMP, which
will define for different time horizons, planning, investment and policy decisions and guide decisions
regarding water mobilization, allocation, and cost sharing.
Institutional Arrangements
Tlhe Govermment is committed to strengthening the institutional framework for an integrated water
resource management as effected through the passage of the Water Law (August 1995). The establishment
of the Conseil Superieur d'Eau et Chmat (CSEC) will provide a forum for discussion of major initiatives
and formulation of general direction of national water policy. To operationalize its actions, an inter-
ministerial committee composed of high level representatives of key ministries responsible for water
management will be established. The Government is also committed to the decentralization of water
management to the basin level through the establishment of River Basin Agencies which will assume all the
functions of integrated water management at the basin covering supply, demand, quality control and cost
recovery aspects. The preparation work for the creation and the establishment of the first River Basin
Agency is underway and will be supported by the WRMP.
To ensure that water users participate in discussions of major initiatives and decision making
regarding water mobilization, allocation, maintenance and financing, water users are represented on the
CSEC and the Board of Directors of the River Basin Authorities.
Capacity Building
Institution Building will be carried out to strengthen the government's and River Basin Agencies'
capacity in water planning, policy and project analysis, monitoring and management requisite for
implementation of integrated water policies and programs. The Government will also take other capacity
enhancing measures designed to meet the institutional challenges for the management of water resources.
Institution building will be supported by the WRMP, which will facilitate the development of real time
water management, automatic monitoring of dam safety, computerized maintenance of dams, economic
analysis and establishment of information system.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
Legrislation and Regulation
The Government has taken significant steps by putting in place a legal and regulatory framework
to support sustainable water management. The National Water Law which provides the necessary
framework of legislation and regulation has been passed by parliament in July 1995. The definition and
application of the legal and administrative texts have been initiated, and their promulgation supported by
WRMP, will ensure that the Water Law and associated decrees provide an effective legal instrument for an
integrated water management, the establishment of river basin authorities and water users associations.
Pricing Policy
Because of the growing scarcity of water and the escalating cost of water supply and to control
pollution, the Government will pay greater attention to the value of water as an economic resource in
mobilization and allocation decisions. Within the framework of an integrated approach to water
management, which had taken into account social priorities, equity considerations and the limitations on
public finances, the Government is committed to introduce a more rationale and comprehensive tariff policy
(for surface water mobilization, transport and distribution, ground water recharge, and wastewater
treatment) using economic principles. This aims to and ensure cost recovery beginning with introduction of
recovery for bulk water supply and other infrastructure and wastewater treatment costs. This effort will be
supported by the WSIL which will also support the Government through comprehensive study which will
guide discussions on a more rational approach to water pricing.
Environment
The Government is comnmitted to reduce surface and ground water pollution and environmental
degradation with a view to ensuring more sustainable environmental management. The strategy to be
adopted consists of establishment of effective monitoring and control of water quality, introduction of
economic incentives and legal enforcement, and incorporation of water quality and environmental
management into the national Water Plan and River Basin Agency Plans. This is to be supported by
WRMP which will assist the government to ensure that investment in water resources mobilization meet
acceptable standards for environmental assessments and contain mitigation plans.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED POLICY FRAMEWORK AND REFORMS
OBJECTIVE                             ISSUES                            STRATEGY                              ACTION
I. Etablish integrated water       Unsustainable water use             Adopt a long-term strategy for       *  Receipt by IBRD of draft letter of
management                                                              integrated water resources             development policy outlining
management, combining supply,          Government's commitment to
demand and quality management while    establishing a long-term strategy
adressing economic efficiency and      for integrated water resource
equity objectives. The strategy will   management, not later than
guide decisions regarding water        September 30, 1997
mobilization, allocation, cost-sharing
and financing
II. Strengthening the institutional  Overlap and gaps in institutional  Passage of a Water Law and          *  Promulgation of key "Decrets and
framework for integrated water      responsibilities                   implementation Decrees that would:      arretes " for the Water Law, by
resource management                                                     *  Strengthen coordination through     negotiations;
Fragmented approach to water quality   establishment of an interministerial  *  Operation of a River Basin Agency
and quantity management                water committee                     (RBA) for the Oum-er-Rbia basin,
*  Define institutional responsibilities  by Negotiations.
Weak capacity for planning analysis    for water quality, surface and
and monitoring                         groundwater abstraction, water
delivery and disposal services,
rural water supply/financing.
Decentralization of water management
decision-making to river basin
authorities and water utilities



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
OBJECTIVE                            ISSUES                           STRATEGY                             ACTION
Ill.  Increase stakeholder        Water users are inadequately        Through greater beneficiary        D&rets on RBA and CSEC.
participation                represented in decision making.    participation in decision making
regarding water mobilization,
allocation, maintenance and financing:
*increase stakeholder participation,
ownership and commitment of chosen
strategies and implementation actions;
* improve maintenance, service
delivery and cost recovery.
IV.   Adopt rational tariff policy  Rising marginal cost of water, in  Treatment of water as an economic    Implementation of a comprehensive
and improve cost recovery   conjunction with low water tariffs for   good in mobilization and allocation  tariff policy in the Oum er Rbia basin
urban and irrigation use, resulting in    decisions. Establishing financial  (to include cost recovery of
inappropriate allocation, low efficiency  coherence of the national water  mobilization and other infrastructure
of use, inadequate maintenance and  strategy by adopting a more rational    costs, wastewater treatment, and
constraints to investment finance.  tariff policy using economic principles  supply from non-conventional
and ensuring full cost recovery in the    sources), by February 28, i998.
long run, beginning with introduction
of water tariffs and cost recovery for
bulk water and O&M costs of
irrigation water and sanitation services
and gradually moving towards full cost
recovery, including for hydropower.
V.  Reduce surface and groundwater  Degradation of water quality reaching   Establishment of effective monitoring   Promulgation of application Decrees
pollution and environmental  critical levels; management of water    and control of water quality;  for norms and standards, pollution
degradation                  quality and environnmental protection    implementation of economic incentives  charges and enforcement authority;
divorced from quantity management.   and legal enforcement; incorporation of (see 11).
water quality and environmental
management principles into the     Definition at the river basin level of
.______________________________ _______________________________  National Water Plan and River Basin   tariff policy and application of charges



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
OBJECTIVE                             ISSUES                             STRATEGY                              ACTION
Authorities' mandates.              for wastewater collection, treatment,
and disposal of treated wastewater,
including reuse of treated wastewater;
(see IV).
vr. Strengthen legal framework and    Inadequate legal and regulatory    Support sustainable management of   Promulgation of priority Decrees, on:
regulatory framework                framework                           water resources by putting in place a    (i) creation of RBA; (ii) authorization
coherent legal and regulatory       for extractions and discharges; (iii)
framework, particularly for:        charging schemes for abstraction and
* establishment of River Basin      discharge; and (iv) norms and
Authorities and water user          standards on water quality; (see II)
associations;
* management of water protection and
conservation and groundwater use;
* cost recovery for water mobilization
and pollution control infrastructure.
VII. Improve demande management    Inefficient water use in agriculture  Promote: (i) efficient use of water  Define principles for tariff policy, and
through pricing, applied research and   investments and maintenance of
Lack of integration of demande and  other incentives to improve on-farm  surface water mobilization, transport
supply management decisions         efficiency; and (ii) reduce losses   and distribution, aquifer recharge, snd
through real time management and    wastewater treatment and supply to
Inadequacy of economic incentives for  improved maitenance of infrastructure   users: (see IV)
demand management
I1.   Dates to be defined in terms of stages of project processing and implementation; appraisal, negotiation, Board presentation, effectiveness, implementation.
The processing calendar envisioned is:
Negotiation - July 7-11, 1997; Board - December 16, 1997; Effectiveness - January 31, 1998.






Annex 3
Page I of 8
MOROCCO
Water Resource Management Project
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RIVER BASIN AGENCY IN OUM-ER-RBIA
A. Background
1.           The Government of Morocco has accepted the concept of integrated river basin
management (IRBM) to plan and control water resources in the future, and the new Water Law (10/95)
(Ref. 1) provides the framework for the necessary legislative measures.  This requires the
decentralization of water resource management to the river basin level.
2.           The selection of the Oum-Er-Rbia river basin as the first river basin agency (RBA)
reflects the problems and stresses of water resource management in a region containing major centers of
population, such as Casablanca (population >3.5 M). The Oum-Er-Rbia catchment covers an area of
35,000 Km2 and contains 3,700 M m3 water. Under the law, RBAs are public authorities with financial
autonomy. The necessary restructuring to achieve the Government's objectives will be monitored by a
Government "multidisciplinary" task force.
3.           The requirements of the approved National Water Plan will determine the activities of
the RBA, that will be empowered by the new water legislation to fulfil the requirements of the Plan,
under the overall control of the Ministry of Public Works (MOPW). The MOPW will produce written
guidelines and operational procedures, covering all functions of the RBA, to assist the Agency in its task
of developing acceptable catchment management plans.
4.           In November 1995 the Water Research Center (WRC) 2-week mission to Morocco
provided advice to the Government, in a Report dated January 1996, on the legal, institutional and
financial arrangements that would be required to establish the first RBA in the Oum-Er-Rbia catchment.
The MOPW accepted the principal recommendations of the WRC proposals and have included them in
its comprehensive draft report "Mise en Place et Fonctionnement des Agences de Bassin", dated March
1996. This document provided the institutional development information base for the World Bank
Mission Appraisal Team; it was made available during the first week of the Mission.
5.           The MOPW  Report details : (a) the duties and responsibilities of the RBA; (b) the
proposed organizational structure; (c)  RBA representation at the Provincial level, and its inter-
relationship with other statutory bodies; (d) financing and budgetary issues for the RBA; (e) proposals
for establishing the RBA in the period before "vesting day" (January 1, 1997); and (f) timetable to
ensure that the RBA is effective, viable and sustainable, from January 1, 1997.
B. Functions / Responsibilities of RBA
6.           The MOPW Report details the activities, duties and responsibilities of the RBA, and the
powers of the Director of the RBA that derive from the new Water Law (10/95), and that are related to
the relevant Articles of the Water Law (1 0/95). Initial discussions at the most senior level of the MOPW
indicated:



Annex 3
Page 2 of 8
(a)   a strong motivation to set-up the Oum-Er-Rbia RBA according to the principles of IRBM,
and for it to be operational on the I January 1997;
(b)   a commitment to set-up a "Shadow  RBA" manned by seconded senior MOPW
professional staff; there would also be a senior personnel officer included in the team, to
help with staff recruitment;
(c)   a commitment to minimize the impact on national budgets by transferring existing
professional staff to the RBA;
(d)   that the existing staff resources and assets would provide the core resources for
establishing the envisaged RBA structure, in order to minimize the impact on the RBA
budget;
(e)   a recognition that the two areas of weakness in the present institutional arrangements and
structures are the degree of integration of water resource management (ie: quantity
aspects) and water quality management; and the lack of water quality expertise in the
field;
that the MOPW existing operational structures were very strong in the maintenance of
large dam structures, and that these operational structures were the "backbone" of the
effective management of water resources at the national level. The strength of the
maintenance function is distributed throughout the catchment, and on large dam sites,
whilst local control is concentrated on the MOPW Regional Office at Beni Mallal, and
overall control and accountability is placed on the central MOPW office in Rabat. There
is scope for improved efficiency when these duties are taken over by the RBA;
(g)   that a small proportion of staff, at the senior / professional level, in the 8 Provincial
Offices could be transferred to the RBA if needed, but that the remainder would stay in
the Provincial Offices under the control of the central MOPW office to carry out all of
their current activities that are not related to the duties of the RBA;
(h)   that the RBA would need an effective structure to manage all operational duties,
maintenance, and water quality related activities; all within the framework of IRBM.
C. Organizational Structure
Structure to be developed
7.           The establishment of the first RBA in Morocco, using IRBM techniques, is a visionary
concept that recognizes the need to adopt new water management systems and procedures for the future.
Unless this is done the situation where in the past Morocco has had a surfeit of water, will change to one
of severe water shortages as Morocco expands and develops, with respect to population growth,
industrial activities, and the significant expansion of the tourism industry.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 8
8.           The MOPW draft report follows this concept in proposing a small, viable organization
that can be established within the tight timescale, using existing staff wherever possible. The need to
have a financially self-supporting, and sustainable organization that can develop over time, and act as a
"pilot exercise" for RBAs in the remaining 8 RBAs throughout Morocco, is a central theme of the report.
All subsequent Mission discussions confirmed this theme.
9.           The new Water Law (Article 21) determines the basic structure of the RBA. A key aspect
is the establishment of the RBA Administrative Council (AC) that will oversee the activities of the RBA;
approve all RBA actions; catchment plans; and the RBA interface with the central MOPW with respect
to all aspects of the National Water Plan. Also, the Water Law determines the representation on the AC
of the major water users and state controlled bodies, provincial, rural, local, and ethnic organizations.
The AC is presided over by the Minister of Public Works, who will ensure that the views of all water
users are considered when approving proposals of the RBA. The Director of the RBA will attend all AC
meetings, and provide the Secretariat and support facilities to the AC.
10.          A number of Commissions will be established by the AC to facilitate its work. There will
be a provisional Commission charged with setting-up the RBA. Four permanent Commissions will:
(a)    oversee the day-to-day activities of the RBA;
(b)   consider the redistribution of pollution charges to environmental improvement schemes,
and related studies, and the provision of anti-pollution measures, such as financing
sewerage and sewage treatment schemes for rural areas;
(c)   co-ordinate research activities, and consider technological improvements, for the benefit
of all who live in the river basin;
(d)   promote educational activities throughout the basin regarding the work of the RBA; in
particular ensure that school educational programs are in place to further the
understanding of the environmental protection role of the RBA.
1 1.         The MOPW Report outlines the structure of the Oum-Er-Rbia RBA, the duties of the
proposed four Departments, and their respective Divisions, reporting to the Director, as follows : (a)
planning and development; (b) operations; (c) management of the "Domaine Public Hydraulique"; and
(d) finance and administration.
12.          The duties and responsibilities of the 12 Divisions can be summarized to include:
(a)   Operations:
All maintenance activities, including large dams; Flow control (dams and river sluices)
to satisfy needs of users and for flood control; Emergency response - flooding, accidents,
pollution incidents. The Operations Department will implement and control all field
activities, eg. hydrometra, control of abstractions, application of agreed "norms and
standards", operating to agreed procedures for all field activities. The field staff are the



Annex 3
Page 4 of 8
"eyes and ears" of the RBA and will provide early indications of problems. The need for
training is recognized. The proposed WRC Training program should cover these needs.
(b)   Water Resource monitoring:
River flows, levels (dams and groundwaters), abstractions, discharges, water quantity
monitoring network, sampling, analysis.
(c)   Water Quality:
Set objectives to achieve Water Plan aims; Monitor and control via pre-defined sampling
networks; Recover costs and pollution charges; Propose investment of anti-pollution
fund; Support PR campaigns (education). T he laboratory will be in the Division
Protection du milieu.
(d)   Planning and resulting data assessment will be carried out by the Departement de la
Planification et du Developpement, whilst all legal aspects connected with authorizing
extractions and discharges will be the responsibility of the Departement de la Gestion du
Domaine Public Hydraulique.
13.          The Director will ensure adequate liaison between Departments; there will need to be
strong inter- departmental links on setting environmental targets and the application of "norms and
standards"(Planning Department with Authorizations Department), monitoring in the field (Operations
Department) in conjunction with the laboratory (Division Protection du milieu), and the final data
analysis (Planning Department with Authorizations Department) to provide management information for
action; eg. to enforce more stringent standards to better protect the river; and to prosecute dischargers
who contravene the law.
14.          The structures and principal activities of the Departments detailed in the MOPW Report
are comprehensive in covering the legal duties of the RBA. However, the early implementation of the
training program proposed in the WRc report will be essential to the effectiveness of the RBA. Also,
special attention should be given to the training of field staff in sampling techniques and the use of hand-
held instrumentation, and the appreciation of the legal framework of the RBA that underpins the
enforcement role of the RBA.
Existing structures
15.          The DRH Regional Office at Beni Mellal will be the core of the RBA; at present it
consists of three units, reporting to the Director, with a total staff of 54 including:
(a)   A planning I management group, headed by the Assistant Director, assisted by two
technicians. Recently a new small water quality group has been added, which 1has two
engineers and two laboratory staff.
(b)   A groundwater group, consisting of five engineers and eight technicians, five of which
are involved in rural potable water supplies.
(c)   A surface water group, consisting of one engineer and five technicians, dealing only with
hydrometra, flood control and emergencies.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 8
(d)   Other duties in the "domaine public hydraulique", and asset management in all
catchments (including dams) are handled with by two technicians. There are 25
administrative support staff.
16.          All the 54 staff at the Beni Mellal DRH Regional Office will transfer to the RBA. 34 of
these staff are "senior and middle level" staff, 10 of which meet the profiles listed in the WRc proposals.
The draft report lists these 10 by discipline, but does not specify which divisions they would be assigned
to in the proposed RBA structure.
17.          The RBA will need to recruit the seven engineers and one chemist position listed as
vacant. They do not exist in the Provincial Office structures, and the RBA will recruit them from the
MOPW at "the Centre" (ie: DGH), or by external recruitment. MOPW staff in Rabat would be
considered to fill key vacancies in the RBA at Beni Mellal. However, the MOPW will continue to
review all options. It was decided not to transfer staff until September to allow the Director to be
involved in the selection process.
18.          MOPW  intends to transfer key staff from the eight Provincial Offices to the RBA, by
January 1, 1997. Staff to be transferred will be limited so that the majority of the provincial office staff
continues with their existing non-RBA duties.
19.          A breakdown of staff, by discipline and number, in the eight Provincial Offices has been
obtained. It seems likely that the nine Engineers and several technicians will transfer to the RBA out of
the total staff of 284. Special consideration needs to be given to strengthening the El Jadida "local
office"; this is the only area office in the proposed RBA structure which reflects the needs of heavily
populated areas for groundwater resources.
20.          For 1998 it is proposed that the additional staff needed by the RBA will come from
DGH/DRH (centre + provincial offices) but it may be necessary to recruit externally for specialist posts.
eg. 2 lawyers and I economist.
21.          The laboratory will be located at Beni Mellal under the control of the Division Protection
du milieu. Following a review of its existing capability the laboratory may most likely need
strengthening. Lower level technicians should be available from the DRH Provincial Offices, but they
will need special training.
Relationship with the "Centre"
22.          All interviews with staff in DGH gave the overwhelming view of minimal integration of
activities; planning issues, water quantity and water quality matters appeared to be dealt with in
"compartmentalized boxes". The mission was told on one occasion that only questions relating to
particular functions could be addressed.
23.          There is an urgent need to integrate the activities of the 3 Divisions in the Direction de la
Recherche et de l'Eau, particularly as they will be the interface with the RBA on ensuring that the
requirements of the National Water Plan are met. The RBA will need on-going technical advice and



Annex 3
Page 6 of 8
guidance from the "Cenitre" when designing catchment management plans that will need to be approved
by the Administrative Council.
24.          These aspects were acknowledged by the Director of DGH, who accepted that a more
integrated approach was required at the "Centre", and seemed amenable to the suggestion of regular
(quarterly) meetings between the "Centre's" technical staff, operating as a mutifunctional team, and their
counterparts in the RBA in order to facilitate the production and implementation of the National Water
Plan.
D. Staffing / Resoulrces
25.          The MOPW draft report sets out the proposed staffing of the RBA on1 the I January 1997.
It was made clear to me that the aim was to form a modest RBA based on the principles of IRBM, at
minimum cost, and utilizing existing staff resources. These staff resources are of a very high calibre in
operation and maintenance activities, water resource (quantity) management, and related technical
support services. However, weaknesses in the management of water quality in the field, and associated
monitoring and laboratory facilities were acknowledged. All visits, interviews, documentation, and
discussions tended to confirm.
26.          The draft report was received  on day 6 of the Mission, and early discussions were
devoted to clarifying the concepts of the creation of the RBA. Staff structures are based on the WRc
proposals, suitably expanded to reflect better the needs of the government.  The RBA will be
concentrated on the Beni Mallal site of the DRH regional office, with the DRH staff at the core of the
RBA. One local office will be located at El Jadida to address specific issues related to heavily populated
areas, and the management of important groundwaters.
27.          Initial discussions with the DGH Director, and senior DGH staff, concentrated on the
staff numbers and associated staff numbers that would join the RBA on 1 January 1997. Another key
issue was the impact on national and RBA budgets, and the MOPW proposals has to be accepted by
other PMinistries. These considerations, and the fact that the RBA would be financed from water tariffs
by the main beneficiaries (irrigators, extraction of water for treatment and supply, power generation, and
industrial users) resulted in a minimal staff structure for the first year.
28.          The large increase in staffing for the second year (1998) results from the transfer to the
RBA of all maintenance staff associated with the large dams. During the first year this maintenance
function would operate as at present, and would thus not appear within the RBA structure and budget.
There would be a close liaison with the RBA on all maintenance activities.
29.          However, during the period of the Mission these issues were reconsidered and I was
informed on the last day of the Mission, ie: after the "wrap-up" meeting, that an internal decision had
been taken to include all relevant maintenance staff within the RFBA structure from the I January 1997.
The impact on the budget was not clear at that time, and was subject to further consideration. It seems
that for organizational purposes the maintenance staff will be shown as in the RBA structure, but that the
first year cost will be covered by DGH as now. This situation needs further clarification.



Annex 3
Page 7 of 8
30.          These changes need to be reflected in the RBA staff numbers from 1997 to 2010 (Draft
Report, page 13).
31.          The proposals that the RBA, with its headquarters in Beni Mellal, will be staffed by
professional and support staff as follows :(a) all the staff of the existing DRH regional office at Beni
Mallal, (b) selected senior staff from the eight provincial offices, and (c) key professional staff from
DGH, will be a good start for the RBA to carry out all functions, with the exception of the water quality
function, subject to any necessary training, preferably before January 1, 1997.
32.          Special care needs to be taken in re-enforcing the water quality component of the RBA
and special training may be necessary. A case can be made for selecting the Laboratory Manager by
open competition; this may require an input into the recruitment process by an external laboratory
specialist. Again, specific training should be provided for laboratory personnel at the earliest
opportunity.
E. Financial Resource
33.          The impact of the establishment of the RBA on the national budget will be minimal due
to staffing the RBA from existing structures. The RBA will be funded from the tariff imposed on bulk
water users (ONEP; ONE; ORMVAS; Industry). It will collect pollution charges that will be used to
fund studies, and provide sewerage systems and sewage treatment plants for towns and villages. This
will indicate to the population at large that they are receiving benefits from the RBA.
34.          It is intended that the bulk water tariff level should be based on economic principles
taking into account social objectives and budgetary constraints. The GOM has engaged a Consultant to
carry out an analytical study to recommend options for policy making. The amount of the tariff will be
determined by the government before negotiations take place with the World Bank. On the quality side,
the principle of "the polluter pays" will be adopted
35.          Provision is made in the RBA budget to cover a number of studies intended to provide the
RBA with the analytical framework for its technical, operational planning and financial activities.
36.          However, it appears that no budgetary provision has been made to cover necessary
training as proposed by WRc. To ensure that urgent training needs can be addressed in the first 2 years
of the RBA, a sum of 2M DH has been included in the World Bank COSTAB Form, to cover the cost of
external training consultants. It is essential that the MOPW consider funding arrangements for on-going
training needs of the RBA. The inclusion of professional staff from "the Centre" MOPW in selected
RBA training courses would be beneficial to the overall management of the water cycle.
F. Training and Technical Assistance
37.          The WRC training proposals provide a useful framework for RBA. The MOPW should
confirm that there is adequate budgetary provision for training over the first 5-year period, in addition to
the funding included in the WB COSTAB.



Annex 3
Page 8 of 8
38.          During discussions a need was identified for the provision of financial control
mechanisms. The possibility of including such needs in proposed management information systems
should also be considered.
G. Next Steps
39.          The steps to be taken are the following: (a) appoint RBA Director - immediately, (b) set-
up "Shadow RBA" - by 01.07.97, (c) appoint I select remaining RBA staff and "slot" into RBA structure
- by 01.10.97. consider competitive appointment of Laboratory Manager, (d) appoint and establish AC,
and set-up all AC Commissions - to be operational on 01.01.97, (e) carry out technical audit of
laboratory and monitoring function, and Equipment Procurement Program, (f) provide urgent training
and                                       ensure                                       RBA
budgetary allocation, (g) ensure adequate funding of maintenance function for first year of RBA - before
"negotiations", (h) MOPW to produce written guidelines, ancl operational procedures to assist the RBA
in carrying out its statutory duties - by 01.01.97, and (i) consider the creation and staff structure of the El
Jadida "local office" - by 01.10.97.
H. Conclusions and Recommendations
40.           In Summary, the MOPW proposals for the RBA will fulfill the initial requirements for
integrated river basin management, with the following qualifications:
(a)    The Heads of Department de la Gestion du Domaine Public Hydraulique et du
DOpartement des Affaires Administatives et Financieres may be externally recruited.
(b)    Consideration should be given to appointing a journalist/media person to be Head
of the Public Relations Department.
(c)    Additional water quality staff needed at the start of RBA is limited to one
Professional Laboratory Manager (may need to be appointed externally) and four
laboratory technicians (who may already be working in current DRH Regional and DRH
Provincial Offices). The impact on the RBA budget will be minimal.
(d)    All RBA staff should receive "in-house" training over the first 2 years of tlle
RBA.  The initial training courses should be provided by external consultants as
recommended by WRc. The emphasis should be on "training trainers" to ensure that
training expertise is developed and maintained in Morocco.



Annex 4
Morocco
WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Activities                                              200       2.
1. Support to Policy and Institutional Reforms
A. National Water Plan
plan
B. Policy studies
C. RBA establishment
(a) equipment
(b) training
(c) technical assistance
II. Capacity Building
A. Water resource planning
(a) masterplan for flood protect.
(b) masterplan for water quality protect.
B. Water resource allocation
real-time water management
Meteorological Station
DGH strengthening
C. Water conservation in irrigation
(a) applied research
(b) study
D. Health aspects
Ill. Direct Investment Actions
A. Infrastructure improvement
Nakhla dam rehabilitation
B. Groundwater management
C. Water quality improvement






Annex 5
Page I of 2
SUPERVISION PLAN
Visits                  Activity                     Skills/specialty        Staff weeks
approximate timing                                            required               needed
June 1998          Project start-up mission        Task manager + Specialists in:        10.00
Review of:
1997 Work Program
bidding procedures             Civil engineering
water mobilization works       Procurement
waste water treatment          Water quality
Institutional development      Water institutions
Real-time water management     Real-time water management
November 1998       Review of:                     Task Manager + Specialists in:        10.00
Water mobilization             Civil engineering
Real time water management     Dam safety monitoring
Research in irrigation         Real time water management
RBA operations                 Irrigation research
Institutional development      RBA management
Water institutions
April 1999          Review of:                     Task Manager + specialists            10.00
Water mobilization             Civil Engineering
Health aspects                 Water master planning
Regional water plan            Health aspects
Institutional development      Water institutions
November 1999       Review of:                     Task Manager + Specialists in:        10.00
Water mobilization             Civil engineering
Waste water treatment          Water quality
National/regional master plans  Water master planning
Institutional development      Water Institutions
March 2000         Mid-term Review                 Task Manager + Specialists in:        15.00
Civil engineering
Real-time water management
Water quality
Water master planning
Water Institutions
November 2000       Review of:                     Task Manager + Specialists in:         10.0
Water Mobilization             Civil engineering
Regional master plans          Water quality
Applied research in irrigation  Water master planning



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
V isits                  Activity                     Skills/specialty         Staff weeks
approxinmate timing                                            required                needed
Institutional development       Water Institutions
March 2001          Review of:                      Task Manager + Specialists in:          10.0
Water Mobilization              Civil engineering
National/regional master plans  Water quality
Applied research in irrigation  Water master planning
Institutional development       Water Institutions
November 2001       Review of:                      Task Manager + Specialists in:           8.0
Water mobilization              Civil engineering
Regional masterplans            Water masterplanning
Institutional development       Water institutions



Annex 6
Morocco
Water Resources Management Project
List of Contracts and Procurement Method
Subzject                              Item        No. of contracts  Proc. method  MAD million
Policy reforms                        studies           2              N/A           21.5
RBA Establishment                  techn. equip.        2              ICB            2.7
TA/training         5              N/A            7.3
Flood/pollution control master plans  studies           2              N/A           20.0
Real-time water management             CW               I              NCB            2.0
Equip. vehicles      1              ICB             1.6
hydrologic eq.       2              ICB           18.5
telecomm.           1              ICB           18.9
computer eq.         1             NCB             2.0
software           1            others           5.4
TA              3              N/A           12.5
Meteorolgical stations                 CW               1              NCB            1.5
meteor. equip        1              ICB            5.6
computer eq.         2             NCB             3.8
training          2              N/A            1.5
DGH strengthening                   computers           1              NCB            5.3
TA              2              N/A           10.3
Rehabilitation of the Nakhla dam       CW               I              ICB           16.7
study            1              N/A            0.4
Aquifer study                          study            1              N/A            3.6
borehole drilling     1             NCB            12.1
Equip.            2             others          0.2
Recharge of the Souss aquifer       study/cons.         1              N/A            3.9
OW               I             NCB            16.7
Water conservation in irrigation      equip.            5              ICB            6.8
TA/study           1              N/A            8.1
equip.           10             NCB            15.0
equip            5             others          5.0
Water quality improvement             studies           1              N/A            51
Health aspects                         CW               1              NCB            0.8
Lab. equip.         2             NCB             1.2
Mobile Units        1              ICB            0.7
Material          2              NCB             6.5
TA/Training         2              N/A            1.5
ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding
NCB = National competitive Bidding
N/A = Not Applicable
m:\bichara\wrmp\annex6



Annex 7
MOROCCO
Water Resource Management Project
Disbursement Schedule
Projected         Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD          Semester       Disbursement       Amount
Fiscal Year       Ending       (US$Million)  _(US$ Million)        % of total
FY98           Jun-98            1.00            1.00               5
FY99           Dec-98            0.50            1.50               8
Jun-99           1.50             3.00              15
FY00           Dec-99            1.50            4.50               23
Jun-00           2.00             6.50              33
FY01           Dec-00            2.00            8.50               43
Jun-01           2.50            11.00              55
FY02           Dec-01            2.00            13.00              65
Jun-02           2.00            15.00              75
FY03           Dec-02            1.50            16.50              83
Jun-03           1.50            18.00              90
FY04           Dec-03            1.00            19.00              95
___________       Jun-04            1.00            20.00             100
a/ The Loan is assumed to be effective during ithe first half of 1998



Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Environmental Assessment
I.    INTRODUCTION
The Water Resource Management Project (WRMP) is the first major effort of the Government to
address water issues in a comprehensive manner within the framework of the country's environmental
priorities and the MENA Environmental Strategy. The project would result in important enviromnental
benefits: prevention of further degradation of the quality of ground and surface waters and improvement of
the efficiency of water use. These benefits would directly contribute to improving overall quality of the
rural/urban and natural environment and the health of the river basin's population. In this respect, the
WRMP is an environmental project. The WRMP is a category B project. Environmental consequences are
mitigated through compensation measures and environmental studies undertaken aim at implementing
environmental measures as an integral part of the project.
All project components have been reviewed in the light of the environmental requirements of
Morocco and the provisions of O.D. 4.01. The project is to (a) improve the long-term management of
water resources through policy reforms, institutional strengthening, and capacity building, (b) support
actions to conserve water resources, (c) control the pollution of surface and groundwater resources, and (d)
demonstrate actions for the integrated water management practices which could be replicated elsewhere in
Morocco.
The project's environmental measures would be monitored by an Environmental Monitoring
Committee (Comite de Suivi Environnemental de l'Agence de Bassin) to be created under the project. The
committee would be chaired by the future river basin agency (RBA) of Oum Er Rbia with the guidance of
the Ministry of Environment and with the assistance of ONEP's "cellule de l'environnement". The
committee will comprise all concerned ministries ( MI/collectivites locales, MTP, ME, MAMVA, and
MSP). The Enviromnental Monitoring Conmmittee will also commission and supervise environmental
impact assessment studies for all development projects affecting the Oum Er Rbia river bassin.
II.    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT of the WRMP
The project supports policy reforms, institutional development, capacity buiding, and investment in
physical infrastructure. All WRMP components were assessed in collaboration with the Ministry of
Environment and other concemed ministries. Overall, all components have a positive environmental effect.
However, some of the physical work to be undertaken, under the priority investments component, for the
improvement of environmental conditions will have environmental impacts which will be mitigated through
the implementation of appropriate measures.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
A.    Policy Reforms
Policy Reforms will include developing the framework :for long-term planning and management of
wateir; and setting up the regulatory framework to limit groundwater mining, control pollution, promote the
use of economic incentives, and improve cost recovery.  These policy reforms will ensure that the
environmental aspects of water quality and quantity management are integrated. Supporting activities
include: the GOM Letter of Development, the Water Law and implementation decrees, the National Water
Plan, and a Water Pricing and Cost Recovery Scheme.
The Government, through the project's Letter of Development Policy, is committed to reduce
surface and groundwater pollution and environmental degradation of the river basins, thereby allowing for
sustainable use of water and land resources and improving the health of the population. The strategy to be
adopted consists of establishing, through the setting up of RBAs, effective integrated management of water
quality and quantity aspects throughout the basins. This will include setting up, and/or implementing under
the National Water Plan and River Basin Master Plans: (a) the legal and regulatory framework, (b)
effective charging policies that act as incentives to water conservation and quality protection, and (c) the
environmental impact assessment procedures for any development plans affecting the river basins. This
strategy is to be supported by the Water Resource Management Project which will ensure that
environmental quality and quantity aspects of managing a river basin are met.
The Water Law and Implementation Decrees include decrees for norms and standards on water
quality and pollution charges. The National Water Plan should ensure better water conservation policies.
The P'lan will also integrate quality and quantity aspects of water management. The Water Pricing and
Cost Recovery scheme will act as incentives to water conservation.
B.    Institutional Development
The creation and development of the Oum Er Rbia RBA will introduce the integrated management
of water quality and quantity aspects within an overall catchment approach. The agency would regulate
discharges and monitor water quality and quantity of surface and groundwater as well as developing public
aware;ness for measures to conserve water.
C.    Capacity Building
The policy, economic, and environmental analysis unit would also include an environmentalist
specialized in water quality issues. The training component would include training on dam-related
environmental issues and water quality issues within a catchmrent approach to ensure that environmental
aspects are properly integrated into the policy and project work. The capacity building component will also
include (a) the development of a flood protection master plan for which general guidelines are in Appendix
1; and (b) an emergency pollution plan of which TOR are satisfactory to the Bank. These TOR will have
to be fully revised to include the work done, under the pre-feasibility study, on the social, environmental,
and health impacts. Particular attention will be given to the conservation of the Mamora forest.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
D.    Priority Investments
The WRMP includes priority investments in Ground Water Recharge, Flood Protection, Water
Quality Improvement, and Surface Water Pollution Control. They consist not only of developmental or
technical equipment, but also of management operations or of preliminary studies that represent remedial
measures for important environmental issues (aquifers and water quality for example).
The table below covers all the WRMP 's various environmental aspects and mitigation measures of
the investment components. Only the investments which have an environmental impact in the preparation
or implementation of the WRMP are summarized in the following paragraphs.
The Flood Protection work will be accompanied by specific measures. The works will be
integrated in an overall catchment approach (with minimization of the consequences of the flood
protection work downstream) and in the case of Oued Issil, in Marrakech, the works will be
designed in collaboration with a landscape architect. Measures to be undertaken during the project
implementation are detailed in Appendix 1. For Oued Issil, however, two important actions must
be taken as prerequisites to the flood protection measures in order to fully ensure their efficiency:
(a) solid waste (domestic waste, rubble, plastic container, etc.) can be found in the riverbed, mainly
in Sections 2, 3 and 4. These debris not only could form a bottleneck in the riverbed and obstruct
the water flow when the water level is high, but could also represent a nuisance downstream. An
action plan to remove the solid waste will have to be prepared by the Government and reviewed by
the Bank during implementation. It is also recommended that the plan include a population
awareness component for the poorer sections of the river's banks. It would include a program for
the schools and mosques (during the Friday prayers) as well as audio-visual equipment involving
the local population; (b) in Sector 4, downstream from the bridge on RP24, the river drains the
sewage from a poor neighborhood (flooded during heavy rainfall) located on the East bank. The
linkage of the sectors of the river to the treatment plant should be planned. Pollution of the Oued
Issil's groundwater table has been reported.
Recharge of aquifers. Under this component, the deep aquifer of Triffa will be surveyed and a
feasibility study will be undertaken for the use of ground and surface waters (guidelines in
Appendix 3). This survey will integrate the related environmental aspects. The artificial recharge
of Souss aquifer will be carried out. Since clean fresh water is to be used for the recharge, there
are no environmental impacts.
Finally, the health benefits, deriving not only from the project's health component but from almost
all other components, will be apparent through a reduction in the flow of raw sewage and industrial effluent
into surface and ground waters. It will provide treated water of irrigation quality in accordance with WHO
norm (now raw effluent is already used for irrigation).



Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
Appendices
Appendix 1:   Flood Protection Guidelines
Appendix 2:   Artificial Recharge of Aquifers
Appendix 3:   Evaluation Environnementale des Projets d'Assainissement et Protection des Ressources en
Eau de Ouiaouizerht, Afourer, Oued Zem et Azilal - ONEP, Mai 1996.
Appendix 4:   Termes de Reference pour l'Etude d'Impact des Stations d'Epuration
Appencdix 5:   Amelioration de l'Hygiene du Milieu - Ministere de la Sant6 Publique, Direction de
l'epidemiologie et de la lutte contre les maladies, D'ivision de l'hygiene du milieu, avril
1996.



Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
A. WATER MOBILIZATION
Al. Rehabilitation of Hydraulic Infrastructure
COMPONE    ENVIRONMENTAL                                               MEASURES
NTS                    IMPACTS
Rehabilitation   No impact.
of the
concrete face
of the Nakhla
dam.
A3. Groundwater Manaement
COMPONENTS               ENVIRONMENTAL                                     MEASURES
IMPACTS
Survey of one deep     No impacts or positive impacts.    Activities
aquifer (Triffa).                                     -Measures envisaged are to offset the overuse of aquifers.
-Environmental aspects, integrated in TOR, are related to the
increased salinity of the aquifer. The impact of irrigation on
groundwater quality will be assessed.
Responsible Agency: DGH
Artificial recharge of  No impacts due to use of clean
Souss aquifer.       water for aquifer recharge.
A4. Surface Water Resource Management
COMPONENTS               ENVIRONMENTAL                                     MEASURES
IMPACTS
-Real-Time water       No impact.
management
-Meteorological stations  No impact.
B. WATER DEMAND MANAGEMENT
Research & Development in Irrigation
COMPONENTS              ENVIRONMENTAL                                   MEASURES
IMPACTS
-Strengthening of applied  No impact.                Particular attention will be given to the level, pollution (nitrates and
research in the OER basin.                           pesticides) and salinity of the watershed's aquifers. The relationship
between low aquifers and the deep aquifer will be explored.



Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
C. WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Health Aspects                                           .
Epidemiological survey.    Positive impact. National level   Responsible Agency
measures of environmental nature.    Ministe.re de la Sante Publique; Direction de l'epidemiologie
et de la lutte contre les maladies, Division de l'hygibne du
milieu ('cfr. Appendix 6).
Preventive measures.       Positive impact. National level   Responsible Agency
measures of environmental nature.    Ministere de la Sante Publique; Direction de l'epidemiologie
et de la lutte contre les maladies, Division de l'hygi6ne du
milieu (cfr. Appendix 6).
Public awareness.          Positive impact. National level   Responsible Agency
measures of environmental nature.    Ministbre de la Sante Publique; Direction de l'epidemiologie
et de la lutte contre les maladies, Division de l'hygibne du
milieu (cfr. Appendix 6).
INVESTMENTS IMPLEMENTATION: ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING1
Environmental              Crucial positive impact of the  Action
monitoring during          environmental monitoring.         Create a "Comite de Suivi Environnemental de l'Agence
WRMP's implementation.                                       de Bassin" sponsored by the Ministry of Environment in
close collaboration with ONEP's "cellule environnement".
Responsible Agencv
* DGH in coordination with concerned ministries.
1. Environmental aspects related to water policy issues and to instituttional and regulatory aspects are
integrated within the project's first two components.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Justification
1.           General: The economic justification is based on the project's benefits from improved
efficiency in the use and management of water resource due to proposed policy and institutional reforms
and the capacity building measures which would improve information system, planning and technical
capabilities for improved monitoring and management and in the implementation of public investment
programs. The establishment of a self-financing River Basin Agency in Morocco would rely on tariff
from bulk water and pollution charges supported by the proposed project. It is expected to introduce a
tariff and cost recovery policy which could provide the basis for advancing the policy of financing
autonomy of public enterprises. Strengthening the policy and project analysis capacity of the lead
government agency in charge of water resources mobilization is expected to result in a more rigorous
selection of investment projects with the application of sound economic principles in investment
decisions which would result in improved prioritization of public investments. Furthermore, the project
has directly quantifiable benefits generated from the direct investment actions which would improve the
effectiveness of the water systems.
Cost-Benefit Analysis of Investments .
2.           Projects like the Water Resources Management Project do not generate directly
quantifiable benefits of the sort typically included in cost benefit analyses; they lay the enabling
environment i.e. policy, legal and institutional framework essential for improved water resources
management.  As such, their benefit is not directly quantifiable and hence can not be subjected to a
conventional cost-benefit analysis. A cost-benefit analysis has been carried on 43% of the project cost.
3.           Costs. The cost estimates were expressed in financial prices. Factors for the conversion
into economic prices have been calculated as a function of the foreign exchange component of each cost
category, the import duties on that foreign exchange component, and the value added tax applied to that
cost category. The factors used were: civil works 0.77; equipment 0.63; consultant services and studies
0.83. In view of the near-convertibility of the Moroccan Dirham, no shadow exchange rate has been
adopted.
Economic Rate of Return
4.    Each of the investment components has been subjected to the conventional cost-benefit analysis
and Net Present Value (NPV) calculated. There is no single NPV for the project as these are individual
investments whose viability has been individually tested. These investments have been selected from
government's priority investment program based on the criteria of how far the investment could advance
the new integrated approach based on sound economic principles through applying best technological
practices. These are: (i) rehabilitation of Nakhla dam, (ii) recharge of Souss aquifer, and (iii) real-time
water management.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
5.            Project Benefits. The project is expected to result in increases in water use efficiency,
improved demand management and improved capacity to manage a very scarce resource. The project
would have five readily identifiable quantifiable benefits, namely: (a) avoiding damage to hydraulic
infrastructure; (b) increased water availability; (c) avoiding flood damage; (d) improved sanitary
conditions; and (e) and protection of surface water resources. The increased water availability resulting
from the rehabilitation works, disiltation of reservoir, and recharge of aquifers as well as the benefits of
the real time management would help avoid losses that occur because of delays in transmission of
procedures for dam operations. In addition, it allows timelly information to farmers about water
availability later in the season.
Rehabilitation of Nakhla dam
6.     The objective is : to eliminate water losses, currently estimated at 110-130 m3/sec, but gradually
growing. This, in turn, will allow postponing the provision of additional water supply, through the
construction of the Raouz or Amsa dam. The water of the Nalchla dam is used for the drinking water
supply of the city of Tetouan. Two scenarios can be envisaged: (i) If the dam is not repaired and the
government and/or ONEP do not provide for a timely additional supply, there may be interruptions in the
supply of water. In that case, the inhabitants of Tetouan are the beneficiaries of the envisaged repair of
the dam mask. (ii) If the dam is not repaired, but the Government and/or ONEP provide for an alternative
supply, the cost are borne by the budget of the government and/or ONEP. The beneficiaries of the
intervention are the taxpayers and/or the ONEP customers.
7.    Benefits: The mask on the reservoir side of the dam will stop, as from year 3, and water losses
due to leakage averaging 4.5 Mm3/year. The most obvious altetnative source is the earlier than planned
construction of one of two dams, Raouz or Amsa, but probably the Amsa dam.
Recharge of Souss aquifer
8.     The objective is to let surface water, that would otherwise remain unused, infiltrate into the
aquifer of the Souss valley, thereby compensating, at least partly, for decennia-long over-exploitation of
that aquifer by irrigators. Beneficiaries are irrigators in the Souss valley, who are facing water shortages
and/or rising pumping cost. For most farmers water cost has risen to levels that only high value crops
such as out-of-season vegetables, fruits (bananas and citrus), and flowers can still be profitably grown.
Both small and large farms are likely to benefit. The quantity of water to be recharged to the aquifers of
the Souss valley is 25 Mm3/year, of which 20% is expected to be recovered downstream where it will be
lifted for-on-the spot irrigation purposes. The economic value of this water is put at MAD 4/m3 at farm
level, and at MAD 3/m3 before pumping. There may be an additional benefit, not included in the
analysis, and that is a possible reduction in the pumping cost as water levels in wells may rise (or stop
falling).
Real-time water management
9.     This real time dam operation component will have two types of benefits. i) help avoid losses of
irrigation water that occur because of delays in transmission of instructions for dam operations. (losses
estimated at 30 Mm3/year), ii) provide earlier and less conservative information to farmers about water
availability later in the season, thus allowing a higher valorization of the 360 Mm3/year used in the Oum



Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
R'Bia basin from February to August. The higher productive value is conservatively estimated by the
mission at an additional MAD 0.05/m3, or MAD 18 million per year. MAD 0.05/m3 represents only 1-
3% of the productive value of irrigation water in the basin.
Summarvy
10.    The table below summarizes the results of cost-benefit analysis
11.    The total NPV of these components is, at a discount rate of 10%, about MAD 414 million
(US$43.5 million), (excluding the -negative- NPV of the Oued Issil component). The economic
justification for the water quality component is outweighed by the health aspects.
Component      Investment'MAD    NPV at 10% MAD    EIRR   Switching value, %    Switching value,
million,      million, ec. prices    %         benefits        % costs
fin. prices
Nakhla dam                  14                 198     120                -94          +1500
Souss aquifer                                            43                              +359
recharge
Real-time manag.                                           38                             +293
TOTAL            (excl Issil)        (excl Issil)    =
I.     Sensitivity Analysis. A sensitivity analysis on the base case has been carried out to test the
robustness of the ERR of the investment component to less favorable scenarios regarding the increase in
costs, delay in implementation and decrease in benefits or a combination of these events. The sensitivity
analysis has demonstrated that the ERR of the direct investment actions of the project is robust to
uncertainties related to capital costs, delay in project implementation and to combinations of the above.
The analysis also demonstrated that the ERR is well above the opportunity cost of capital in Morocco.
The DGH has considerable experience in the implementation of such schemes and cost overruns and
delays are expected to be minimal and delays in implementation are minimal.
'Including physical contingencies (except WWT stations); excluding price contingencies.






MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Sunmmary
0t    1 Total
JflIL~~1i1IionL...  J1)591000L.-.. ~~~Foreign    Base
Local  f2orign _QIAtAl   Local.   Erizslgn_ 2tot-.Al   Exchanga  Costs
I. IKnvEtm-nt Costs
A. Civil Works
Buildilngs                               0.5      0.2      0.7      51.1      21.7     72.8        30          -
Major works                             14.8      8.0    22.8  1,561.2    837.3  2,398.6            35       11
Minor Works                              1.8      1.2      3.0    188.3    124.3    312.6          40          1
Boreholen                                2.5      7.5    10.0    265.0    790.6  1,055.6           75         5
Mobilization                        ____2_1  _12 _.   3 -         217.2    126.5    3631J         35           2
Subtotal Civil Works                       21.9    18.1    39.9  2,302.9  1,900.4  4,203.3             45        20
B. 8quipmant
Technicnal Bquipmqnt                     6.1    14.4    20.6    644.1  1,520.5  2,164.6             70        10
Computing Equipment                      4.3    10.0    14.3    451.6  1,049.1  1,500.6            70          7
Vehicles                                 0.6      1.4      1.9      61.7    143.4    205.1         70          1
Hydrological Equipment                   6.1    14.3    20.4    646.2  1,501.1  2,147.2            70        10
Mechanical Equipment                       -             -        -         -         -         -              -
Hydraulic Equipment                        -        -        -         -         -         - _                 -
Telecommunication Equipment              4.8    11.2    16.0    505.3  1,173.9  1,679.2             70         8
Small Equipment                      ___1,  _ 2.           -.Q      2_1 _295.2    4222             20         2
Subtotal Equipment                         23.1    54.0    77.1  2,435.9  5,683.0  8,118.9             70        38
C. Technical Assistance
Computer Software                          -        -        -         -         -         -         -         -
Detailed Design                          1.4      1.8      3.2    151.0    187.9    339.0           55         2
Local Consultant services               21.8   * 0.1    22.0  2,298.6         12.5  2,311.1          1        11
International Consultant Services        1.8    20.3    22.1    189.5  2,135.6  2,325.1            92        11
Joint Consultant Services                  -        -        -         -         -         -         -         -
Studies                                 15.9    13.9    29.8  1,675.1  1,459.2  3,134.3             47        15
Training                                 2        3.     5.8    223Ll    381J          605-6        61         3
Bubtotal Technical Assistance              43.1    39.7    82.8  4,538.1  4,177.1  8,715.1             48        41
D. Other Investment Costs
Expropriations / Compensations             -        -    _             -         -         -         -         -
Total Investment Costs                          88.1   111.7   199.9  9,276.8 11,760.5 21,037.4            56        99
II. Recurrent Coats
A. Salaries                                             -            -         -              -         -         -
B. O0M Equipment                            2.5         -     2.5    265.6          -    265.6          -         1
C. Telephone Communications               0.4           - -- .- 4      439_                439 9        _ 
Total Recurrent Costs                            2-.2.1      - ...2A      IS93.2-  _____    .3 -5             -        1____
Total BASELINO  COSTS                            91.1   111.7   202.8  9,586.3 11,760.5 21,346.8            55        100
Physical Contingencies                         10.7    11.8    22.5  1,128.2  1,240.6  2,368.8            52        11
Price Contingencies                         7IQA        7.2  _.. a 1.81-.li.2    761.1  1.815.1           41         9
Total PROJECT COSTS                             112.4   130.7   243.1 11,B28.7 13,762.2 25,590.9            54       120
Wed Jul 09 16:56:48 1997
(D (D
X
0  0
F-h



MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
rrojct  CoSut ary
1     % Total
JILH Million)    .- ________USS '000)9&            Foreign    Base
Locad  Foreign  Tctal   LoAL_  Foreign .TQtdal   £xchangr  Conati
A. POLICY RFORYS1*
1. Preparation of National Water Plan                  6.1    10.6    16.8    646.3  1,117.2  1,763.5             63         8
2. Pormulation of National Strategy                           -        -             -         -         -         -
3. Strengthen CSSC                                        -       -        -         -         -         -         -         -
4. Analytical Studies                                  0.4      1.1      1.4      37.5    112.0    149.6          t5         1
S. Prep of Legal Framework                                -       -        -         -         -         -         -
6. RBA Establishment                                   3 _1  .3l.A.          .55A.Q ---151 51J1                         .
Subtotal POLICY RSEORMS                                   11.8    15.0    26.8  1,237.8  1,581.0  2,918.8            56        13
S. CAPACITY3 BUILDIN9
1. POLICY AND PROJECT ANALYSIS UNIT                       -        -       -         -         -         -         -         -
2. Flood-Contamination Master Plan                      9.4     7.6    17.1    993.5    805.0  1,798.6            45         8
3. Real Time Water Management                         25.7    28.1    53.8  2,700.9  2,963.1  5,664.0             52        27
4. Meteorological Stations                             4.0      6.9    10.9    421.9    725.2  1,147.1            63         S
S. Dam Maintenance                                        -        -       -         -         -         -         -         -
6. Dam Safety Monitoring                                  -        -       -         -         -         -         -         -
7. DGH Strengthening                                   4.4      8.8    13.2    462.8    922.5  1,385.3            67         6
8. Applied Research on Water Conservation              7.9    17.6    25.5    829.7  1,850.5  2,680.2             69        13
9. Support for MON                                   2.9    ___S...8.1   310L0              OkaQL1 _  2113     6A     _ 4A-
Subtotal CAPACITY BUILDINQ                                54.3    74.8   129.1  5,715.9  7,873.1 13,588.9            58        64
C. PRIORITY SUPPORTING INVRSTYKNTS
1. Capaoity Improvement of Infrastructure
a. K Tadla canal                                 *    -        -        -         -         -         -         -         -
b. Dam Mechanical Equipment                           -        -        -              -              -         -         -
c. Nakhla Dam                                       7.8      6.9    14.6    818.8    721.7  1,540.5            47         7
d. Dredging Nakhla Resevoir                           -        - -           -              - _             -             -
Subtotal apacity Improvement of Infrastructure         7.8      6.9    14.6    818.8    721.7  1,540.5            47         7
2. Aquifer Study and Racbarge
a. Aquifer Studies                                  4.1      9.0    13.1    430.2    949.7  1,380.0            69         6
b. Artificial Recharge Systems                     10.71  _4.1    14.0.  l.J.Q.         U A    1.560.8        B2Q        72
Subtotal quifer Study and Recharge                    14.8    13.1    27.9  1,560.9  1,379.8  2,940.8             47        14
3. Construction of Water Treatment System
Water Quality Improvement                           2.1.     1.9      4.3    2522 . 2Q_2    451i2A             45         2
Subtotal PRIORITY SUPPORTING INVRSTURNTS                  25-fl    21     .4A  7.2         _2_.3QKA  4A9I..1 4172
Total BDARLINu COSTS                                       91...    11.7   202.8  9,566.3 11,760.5 21,346.8           55       100
Physical Contingencies                                  10.7    11.8    22.5  1,128.2  1,240.6  2,368.8             52        11
Price Contingencies                                  ._1i.6    7.2  _171  _L,134.2    761J  _j1I5,..                41         q
Total PROJRCT COSTS                                      112.4   130.7   243.1 11,828.7 13,762.2 25,590.9             54       120
Red Jul 09 16:56:43 1997
O   CD
o Q



Annex 1 1
Page 1 of 4
Morocco
Water Resources Management Project
IMPACT MONITORING INDICATORS
I. SUPPORT TO POLICY REFORMS & INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVE                  INPUT                         OUTPUT                       RISKS AND                           IMPACT OF
Resources provided for by the    Goods and services produced        ASSUMPTIONS                      PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Project
Develop capacity    Support to the development of    National Water Plan          (a) Delay in the implementation  Implementation of long-term water
for policy reforms   the regulatory framework                                     of key decrees; speed of      management strategy
and institutional                                                                 required institutional reforms
development                                                                       may be delayed by Ministries
(b) user unwillingness to pay
(c) inadequate cost recovery
(d) inability to collect user
TA to develop NWP for years                                   contributions
2000-2020
Finance a water cost recovery  Determination of appropriate                                  Policy decision based on application of
study, explore options for cost    water and pollution charges                               sound economic principles and tariff
recovery including pollution   increasing user contributions to                             levels increase
taxes                          water
Decentralize       Staff, equipment and revenue    Fully functional RBA at                                      (a) Implementation of the appropriate
decision making at  source for the RBA of the Oum-   effectiveness                                              water charges by GOM,
the river basin level  er-R'bia
(b) Improved water resource management
at basin level
Strengthen the
capabilities for WR
planning,
management and
monitoring
Consultant services            Two masterplans for flood                                     Government able to implement flood
control and measures against                                 control investment projects in priority



Annex 11
Page 2 of 4
11. WATER RESOURCE PLANNING, INFORMATION SYSTEMS & TECHNOLOGY IMPROVEMENT
OBJECTIVE                      INPUT                        OUTPUT                     RISKS AND                           IMPACT OF
Resources provided for by the  Goods and services produced       ASSUMPTIONS                      PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Project
accidental water pollution,                                areas,and mobilize appropriate
including flood areas and                                  resources, and take adequate measures
contamination-prone sites                                  to combat accidental water pollution.
identification countrywide and
proposals for priority projects.
Civil works, hydrological and    Comprehensive real-time water  (i) delays in detailed design,  10 % increase of irrigation output
telecommunication equipment,   management system installed in  procurement and installation of  resulting from better prediction of
cormputer equipment, decision-  the central OER river basin,  the RTWM system, (ii)      available volumes of irrigation water
support software, technical  including hydrological        inefficiency of the public    and reduction of operational water
assistance and training.     telemetry and decision-support  telecommunication company and losses to the lower basin.
systems.                     (iii) inadequate qualification of
RBA staff.
(i) comprehensive technical
assistance provided to cover all
implementation aspects (ii)
ONPT closely associated to
project preparation and (iii)
assurances to be obtained from
DGH on staff qualification
Meteorological equipment,    An additional 12 automatic    Possible delays in DMN        2% increase of agricultural production
telecommunication equipment,   meteorological stations     procuring, installing and     resulting from beter knowledge and
computers and database       installed in the OER basin and   operating the satations.   forecasting of recurring drought.
management software.         connected to the national
climatological network       Technuical specifications of
operated by DMN              equipment ready.
Technical assistance and     DGII planning capacity                                      Additional capacity for planning,
training                     reinforced                                                  implementing and monitoring water
I                            I                             I resource management



Annex 11
Page 3 of 4
III. IMPROVED MOBILIZATION OF WATER RESOURCES
OBJECTIVE                       INPUT                          OUTPUT                        RISKS AND                           IMPACT OF
Resources provided for by the    Goods and services produced           ASSUMPTIONS                    PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Project
Increase safety, reliabilit Technical studies, civil works    Nakhla dam concrete face   Cost overrun due to          Dam life period extended by 30 years,
& efficiency of water    and equipment                 rehabilitated                     unforeseen deterioration of   safety significantly improved and an
resource mobilization                                                                    the earth structure following   estimated 6 Mm3 would be saved and
removal of the existing     reused for Tetuan water supply.
concrete face.
Improve groundwater    Technical studies, civil works    Three additional infiltration weirs  Lower than expected     An estimated 20 Mm3 currently
mobilization            and boreholes                   constructed in the Souss riverbed   performance due to        infiltrated in the upper reach of the river
to increase recharge of the Souss   inadequate operation of the    or lost to the sea would be infiltrated in
aquifer.                         upstream Aoulouz reservoir.  the central reach where the deficit of the
groundwater resources has reached a
critical stage.
Triffa aquifer fully surveyed and   Delays in implementing the   Government able to implement an
optimum exploitation parameters   survey and lower-than-      investment project meant to produce an
determined.                      expected perspectives for    additional 3-5 Mm3 for drinking water
mobilization of additional   supply.
groundwater resource.
Improve water use       Technical assistance,           Parameters for water             Insignificant results due to  Doukkala and Tadla ORMVAs able to
efficiency through      equipment and additional        conservation in irrigation fully  insufficient resources      implement large-scale water saving
water conservation in    recurrent expenditures to     tested in the OER river basin     committed by AGR and the   programs aimed at reducing on-farm i
large-scale irrigation  implement a program of                                           ORMVAs to cover the          water-losses by 20% over 10 years.
applied research in water                                        actual operating costs of the
conservation in irrigation                                       three research stations.
Consultant services to         Status and options for the       Inefficienit monitoring of a    AGR in position to promote
implement a multi-disciplinary   iinprovemnent of modern private    multi-disciplinary study.  irrigation efficiency improvemiienjt in the
study                          irrigation fully assessed.                                     modern irrigation sector with objective
of reducing water losses by 15 % and
inicrease yields by 5 % over five years.
Technical Assistance studies   Master plan for water quality    Insufficient budget          Government would be able to start
for the preparation of master  improvement                                                   investments for water quality
plan for water quality                                                                       improvement in the OER basin.
improvement



Annex 11
Page 4 Of 4
OBJECTIVE                      INPUT                        OUTPUT                        RISKS AND                        IMPACT OF
Resources provided for by the   Goods and services produced         ASSUMPTIONS                   PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Project
Civil works, equipment and    A three-year health improvement  Inefficient irnplementation    70% reduction of the mortality rate
additional recurrent          program implemented by MOH      due to insufficient resources  from typhoid, malaria, cholera and
expenditures to implement a   to reduce the impact of         allocated by MOH            bilharzia in the OER basin.
waterborne disease control    waterborne diseases.
program in the OER basin
m:\bichara\morocco\annex 1 .doc



Annex 12
Page 1 of 1
MOROCCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
List of Technical Working Papers
I. Technical Reports
1. Mobilisation des ressources en eau
2. Groundwater management
3. Water demand Management
4. Real-Time Water Management & Meteorological Stations
5. Water Conservation in Irrigation
II. The establishment of a River Basin A2ency in Oum-er-Rbia
III. Economic Analysis
IV. Environmental Assessment
V. Detailed Cost Tables (COSTAB)






M  O R 0  C c  o                                                                                             A                8° Lu A Nxgtvra T< I'  I
M A R O C                                                      A                                              [AN?IC A 
OUM ER R'BIA RIVER BASIN AGENCY                                                                                                        OCFA N                                              S
INTERVENTION ZONE                                                                                                                         RABAT  
ZONE D'ACTION DE L'AGENCE DE BASSIN                                                                                               /                 odi%  o                           /
DE L'OUM  ER R'BIA                                                                                                              C/ ett (                 ira
RIVERS                                        - INTERVENTION ZONE OF THE AGENCY                                                                  Soli         Q49O0BC   11                  - f
TlVlf ReS                                          ZONE D'ACTION DE L'AGENCE                                                       32'                El Kelaoo , o     ^_ _
.: o SELECTED CITES A   TOWNS '                       EXISTING RESERVOIR                                              /                             '-D   rrile  -r  Z        u       _
VINESETBOURGSSECEcTIONPtS                          RESERVOIR EXISTANT
* NATIONAL CAPITAL                                   PROJECTED RESERVOIR
CA PITALE NATIONALE                                RESERVOIR EN PROJET                                    ,                                     41                    mop
- - - MAIN ROUTES                                        MAJOR DAM                                        f                                                                      a0
ROUTES PRINCIPALES                            (   BARRAGE PRINCIPAL
INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES INSET)                (   MINOR DAM                                 7                                                   "-'
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                         BARRAGE SECONDAIRE
--  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (APPROXIMATE)               CANAL                                 ,  Casablancac
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES (APPROXIMATION)         CANAL                             /                                                                              0    100   200   300 KILOMETERS
&~/ ,  j  8o 4                            28'
Azeour                                     rrechid
El-Jadida                                      Berrechid
ATLA-NTIC                                                 MAAChOU 
OCEA N                                    /                            DAQURAT
El Quolidic                                          IOU                                                                MES
Sidi Benno,
/   /   \      \             >                                     \.       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~        ~        ~~~~~KASSA TADLA  / 
/   J}            Xf         k        X   \s Et ~~~~~~~~MASSIRA                                             _
; ; ) S \XX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-M  ,4 elala/
s. afi /\SIt,-r 
j     1Ka   SrI '                I               '                                       a, Di Uoni sohna  Th ,l Rank.
//  > s                        \                      t   Canol       d          <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HASSN lor <fa  
.   /  >N                                         \        t                   |s;>    ~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~    ~~      ~       ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Si IDRISS-  T a     his mop aprod.,edby the
/o,t_  Dent,(  Th. boundries,colors, denominations
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T iJf''t                                       r                        -sTIMI  NlOUTNE     )                    00      a n d anyother inf-ormi-n showno
.00,           ~~~~~this map d. not imply, on the part of
MY ; 0 < .         .                       _          _     .~Ct ^. * \ \t vYOUSSEF  r  ~ The World ak Group, any jrdgent
0 2(  a   - .   \  >    \  \d? 2  t   |               on the legalstatus of any territory,
I vw^ w++ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Marrakeck                                                                  \                                         >O  nyendorsem-ento-acptanceof
t Esa a.'w_w- w      I-sh  boundaris.R    t
n                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ( _  0 KfLOMETERS
IC).



IBRD 25478R
TANGER~-, A>
MAJOR DAMS                                                                                                                              Mediterranean Sea
1. Thngerois IL-, Hthef, Enokhb:Ma
2. 0_d El Mokh.i.- _Lk                                                                                                      OUEDNlS
3. A6d.1kpin, El Kholttai (NekkonMlIERAEES
4. Ai Whoh&  la.eh.l                                                                                                                                                Dp/
5. My ldrius I (inn=-).,
6. Mohonond V IMooloyol 
7. sidi Mohommed BEn Abdellah (Bou Regsogl                                                                        .    n.
8. El Konzo (Behtl 
9. Ait Y..h (0,.  S.6ou)                                                                                  B          jATAOUNATE
10. Al Masio [Oum ar Rbial          A   T  L  A    N     T  I C
11. Bine El Ouidone (Oued El Abid)
12. Lll. Tkrkoust  o-d Nfis)             C        C    E  A     N                                                              5        T 
13. My YoLwd ITO-.ooot                    0~                                                                    Kc- AEN
14. HFkon 1r( Lakhdorl                                                         RABAT                   ,B             FES6       9
15. sidi Abdelnouoen lO-ed Is-.r)
16. ADUI-ouzOed Sous.)                                                                                    EKNE
17. M-n,oor Addohbi (Ou.d Dmoo
17. Hson Eddkhdl(Oued Zizl                                CASABLANCM-' I                   ^i                          IFRA                               MOULO
19. YusmfE en 1Ilin-e (MtoR.)
A TE
EL-JADIDAZ                             
0ORMVA
B. Ghb                                                  bA
C. Mo-LIoyc
D. :@-.1                                                                  0  O    P R'oA L'UIR SAOUlRAo.
E. Todl.                                                                10o
F. Haouz
G. ScussM- SAfSSA
H.  - -OAuDADrzzoJe KKAL                                                                                                                                                                                  32
-32' I. Toiloe ol. 
>  <---         F, >1 4}|c  A                >/J    / E~~~~~~~RRACh I',nu-~~s 
HAi 
WATER RESOURCES
ious .    SOS)J_H                                                                                                       LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION AREAS:
<^G                                                              DRAA  EX ST NG IRRIGATED AREAS
7   7/? sa  FUTURE IRRIGATED AREAS
TIZN,IT    8     ~\s  /                                                             w                                                  BASIN 8OLUNDARIES
EXISTING DAMS
FUTURE DAMS
RIVERS
400-  MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL N MILLIMETERS
C    PORTS
T A                10o       ISo                                             0    SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
KILOMETERS                                                       IA   PROVINCE CAPITALS
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL
TAN-TAN                                               |Th bd                              d-noicion-iondo=nyo,ho,cinh  on                                 ----  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR ES
o.n an -is nop da no niP,Y o ny hepry or The Wo,Id-Rook o-cp,                    -   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (APPROXIMATEI
ar =cnpIoo-oa fu-hbndooies                                                                                                             28
MAY 1 996



