Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4289-MOR
Loan Agreement
(Water Resources Management Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 5, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4289-MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 1998, between the KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
Page  2
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AGR” means the Department of Rural Works (Administration du Génie Rural) 
within the Borrower’s NADRPM (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and the term “Categories” means more than one Category collectively;
(c)
“DGH” means the Department of Hydraulics (Direction Générale de 
l’Hydraulique) within the Borrower’s MOPW (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
“Dirham” means the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(e)
“Dollar Loan Tranche” means the amount specified in Section 2.01 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, starting July 1 and ending June 30 of the following 
calendar year;
(g)
“French Franc” and “FRF” each means the lawful currency of the Republic 
of France;
(h)
“French Franc Loan Tranche” means the amount specified in Section 2.01 
(b) of this Agreement;
(i)
“Loan Tranche” means either the Dollar Loan Tranche or the French Franc 
Loan Tranche;
(j)
“NADRPM” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture (Ministère de 
l’Agriculture, du Developpement Rural et de la Pêche Maritime) or any successor 
thereto;
(k)
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Health (Ministère de la 
Santé) or any successor thereto;
(l)
“MOPW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works (Ministère de 
l’equipement) or any successor thereto;
Page  3
(m)
“Performance Indicators” mean the agreed indicators set forth in a letter 
of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower pursuant to Sections E and F of 
Schedule 5 hereto to measure the degree to which the Project objectives are being 
achieved;
(n)
“River Basin Agency” means the River Basin Agency (Agence de Bassin) of 
the Oum-er-R’bia catchment, a public entity (Etablissement Public)  established and 
managed pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 2-96-536 of November 2, 1996, to be 
maintained by the Borrower under Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the Water Law (as hereinafter defined);
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(p)
“Water Law” means the Borrower’s Law (Loi sur l’Eau) No.10-95  dated 
August 16, 1995. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement: 
(a)
an amount equal to ten million Dollars ($10,000,000); and 
(b)
an amount equal to fifty-nine million French Francs (FRF59,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dirhams a special deposit account in its General Treasury on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of a 
Loan Tranche not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of: 
(i) the Dollar Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for 
each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread; and (ii) the 
French Franc Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for 
each Interest Period equal to PIBOR Base Rate plus PIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
Page  4
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(v)
“PIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the Paris 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in French Francs for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(vi)
“PIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate, the LIBOR 
Total Spread, the PIBOR Base Rate and the PIBOR Total Spread for Interest Period, 
promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable September 15 and March 
15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of each Loan Tranche 
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through the MOPW, 
carry out Parts A, B1, B2, C1, C2 and C3, the NADRPM carry out Part B3 and  the MOH 
carry out Part B4 of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, agriculture, engineering, environment, 
technical and water management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Page  6
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Foreign Investments of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
36715 M
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  7
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount
 Amount 
  % of
of the 
 of the 
   Expenditures
   Dollar Loan
Franc Loan 
 to be
Category
Tranche Allocated
Tranche Allocated
Financed
(1)
Civil Works 
1,500,000
  8,800,000
80%
(2)
Goods      
4,000,000
 23,400,000
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory 
cost), and 70% 
of local 
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally 
(3)
Consultants'
3,500,000
 20,400,000
100%
Services, Training
and Studies
(4)
Unallocated
1,000,000
  6,400,000
_________
  _________
TOTAL
      10,000,000
 59,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after June 30, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for goods, under contracts costing 
less than $400,000 equivalent each; (ii) for works, under contracts costing less than 
$750,000 equivalent each; (iii) for services of consulting firms, under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) for services of individual 
consultants, training and studies, under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
5.
No withdrawals shall be made in respect to payments for expenditures under Part 
C (3) of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in promoting 
comprehensive water management that is economically efficient, equitable and 
Page  8
environmentally sustainable, through: (i) support to the establishment of an 
institutional framework for integrated water resources management and the creation of 
the country’s first River Basin Agency; (ii) the improvement of the capacity in water 
resources planning and management; (iii) the improvement in water use efficiency; (iv) 
increased effectiveness of existing hydraulic infrastructure; and (v) the introduction 
of suitable water pollution control measures.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Reforms and Institutional Development
Carrying out of a comprehensive program designed to promote integrated water 
resources management, establish a rational cost recovery system and promote 
decentralized water management through the establishment of the River Basin Agency, 
and consisting of:
1.
The provision of technical assistance for: (a) the setting up of the 
institutional and financial mechanism required for the operation of the River Basin 
Agency; (b) the preparation of a suitable National Water Plan in accordance with the 
provisions of the Water Law; and (c) the carrying out of a strategic study on water 
pricing and cost recovery on bulk water.
2.
The establishment and full-fledged operation of the River Basin Agency through: 
(a) the provision of equipment, and (b) the provision of the required consultants’ 
services and training, in particular to assure its technical capacity in water 
planning and management.
Part B:
Capacity Building In Water Resource Planning, Information Systems and 
Technology Improvement
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity for effective 
and efficient water resources management through the adoption and implementation of 
improved procedures, information systems, and technology for water resource planning 
and allocation, water conservation in irrigation, and health aspects of water quality, 
and comprising in particular:
1.
Strengthening of the DGH’s capability for planing, monitoring and evaluation of 
water resource development, water allocation and water quality control through: (a) 
the implementation of a technical assistance and training program as required 
therefor; (b) the preparation of a countrywide flood protection master plan and action 
plan for flood control; and (c) the preparation of an emergency plan to safeguard 
against water pollution, including the establishment of a countrywide inventory of 
sites particularly vulnerable to accidental pollution and of an emergency action plan 
on preventive and corrective measures therefor.
2.
Carrying out of a program for the development of a comprehensive real time water 
management system in the Oum-er-R’bia basin, including: (a) the installation of 
automatic flow metering and associated equipment, and of automatic meteorological 
stations; (b) the setting-up of telecommunications connections; (c) the provision of 
computers and mobile hydrological units as required therefor; (d) the provision of 
specific software applications for data processing and decision support; and (e) the 
provision of relevant technical assistance for the implementation of the 
above-mentioned program.
3.
Support to a priority program of applied research in water conservation in 
irrigation in the Oum-er-R’bia and Souss Massa basins, focusing primarily on water 
requirements for main crops, improved irrigation methods and control measures for 
salinity and nitrate pollution in the large-scale irrigation schemes, through: (a) the 
strengthening of the field experimental research stations in said basins and the AGR 
department in charge of experiments and standardization in Rabat, including for both 
the provision of the required equipment and technical assistance; and (b) the carrying 
out of a study to review and evaluate the challenges facing the private modern 
irrigation sector in order to identify priority needs in agricultural research and 
technology improvements in irrigation. 
Page  9
4.
Support to the MOH program to control water borne diseases in the Oum-er-R’bia 
basin, through the provision of equipment and technical assistance.
Part C:
Investments in Water Mobilization and Quality
Carrying out of investments aimed at incorporating safety, reliability and 
efficiency in water storage and conveyance in the Oum-er-R’bia basin, and comprising: 
1.
The improvement in the mobilization of additional surface water resources, 
through the reconstruction of the concrete face of the Nakhla dam. 
2.
The drilling of exploratory boreholes and wells for the studying of the 
characteristics of the Triffa aquifer and construction of infiltration sills for the 
recharge of the Souss aquifer. 
3.
The preparation of a master plan for the improvement of water quality in the 
Oum-er-R’bia basin. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Dollar Loan Tranche
  Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
of the Dollar Loan Tranche*
September 15, 2003
210,000 
March 15, 2004
215,000 
September 15, 2004
225,000 
March 15, 2005
230,000 
September 15, 2005
235,000 
March 15, 2006
245,000 
September 15, 2006
250,000 
March 15, 2007
260,000 
September 15, 2007
265,000 
March 15, 2008
275,000 
September 15, 2008
285,000 
March 15, 2009
290,000 
September 15, 2009
300,000 
March 15, 2010
310,000 
September 15, 2010
320,000 
March 15, 2011
325,000 
September 15, 2011
335,000 
March 15, 2012
345,000 
September 15, 2012
360,000 
March 15, 2013
370,000 
September 15, 2013
380,000 
March 15, 2014
390,000 
September 15, 2014
405,000 
March 15, 2015
415,000 
September 15, 2015
425,000 
March 15, 2016
440,000 
September 15, 2016
455,000 
March 15, 2017
465,000 
September 15, 2017
480,000 
March 15, 2018
495,000
____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid 
determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 
and 4.03.
Page  10
French Franc Loan Tranche
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
of the French Franc Loan Tranche*
September 15, 2003
1,475,000 
March 15, 2004
1,500,000 
September 15, 2004
1,530,000 
March 15, 2005
1,560,000 
September 15, 2005
1,590,000 
March 15, 2006
1,620,000 
September 15, 2006
1,650,000 
March 15, 2007
1,680,000 
September 15, 2007
1,715,000 
March 15, 2008
1,750,000 
September 15, 2008
1,780,000 
March 15, 2009
1,815,000 
September 15, 2009
1,850,000 
March 15, 2010
1,885,000 
September 15, 2010
1,920,000 
March 15, 2011
1,960,000 
September 15, 2011
1,995,000 
March 15, 2012
2,035,000 
September 15, 2012
2,075,000 
March 15, 2013
2,115,000 
September 15, 2013
2,155,000 
March 15, 2014
2,195,000 
September 15, 2014
2,240,000 
March 15, 2015
2,280,000 
September 15, 2015
2,325,000 
March 15, 2016
2,370,000 
September 15, 2016
2,415,000 
March 15, 2017
2,460,000 
September 15, 2017
2,510,000 
March 15, 2018
2,550,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in French Francs to be repaid, 
determined as 
of the dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 
and 4.03.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
namely that for preference for domestically manufactured goods the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  11
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent; and (b) works, with the 
exception of works under Part (C) (1) of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National/International Shopping
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $1,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate, shall be procured under lump sum, fixed 
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $200,000 equivalent or less 
in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement schedule  for the Project shall be furnished to 
the Bank  in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement schedule  and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (a) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$400,000 or more; and (b) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Page  12
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications Services under Parts A, B and C of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants Services for technical assistance under Parts A, B and C 
of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants 
Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection Services under Parts A, B and C of the Project up to an 
aggregate amount of $2,000,000 may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed  
Schedule for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection schedule and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Section A:
Implementation Arrangements
Responsibility for overall coordination of the Project shall, as provided for in 
Article 3 of this Agreement,  be vested in the DGH.  The Borrower shall at all times 
during Project implementation maintain the required financial, staffing and reporting 
arrangements to ensure that the DGH is properly assisted by:
1.
A technical coordinating committee composed of representatives of the 
implementing agencies, in charge of inter-agency coordination on technical matters to 
be maintained with specific responsibility for: (a) carrying out periodic progress 
reviews on Project implementation; (b) maintaining Project implementation on schedule 
through the adoption of all required measures; and (c) reviewing and approving the 
annual implementation plan referred to in Section F of this Schedule and the 
semi-annual progress reports referred to in Section E of this Schedule.  To this end, 
the said Committee shall meet at least twice a year at the initiative of the DGH, to 
properly assume and discharge the aforementioned responsibilities. 
2.
A project implementation unit in charge of the Project’s follow-up to be  
established in the DGH not later than January 1, 1998, and thereafter maintained.  In 
particular, this unit shall be responsible for: (a) the oversight of DGH’s 
implementation measures under the Project, including those for the River Basin Agency; 
(b) the preparation and update of the annual implementation plan referred to in 
Section F of this Schedule; and (c) the preparation and submission by the DGH not 
later than March 31 and September 30 in each Fiscal Year of the semi-annual progress 
reports referred to in Section E of this Schedule.
Section B:
Part B.1 of the Project: The Technical Assistance and Training Program
In order to ensure that the best arrangements are in place for purposes of 
carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than September 
1, 1998, conclude a contractual agreement with consultants and under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth a detailed implementation program to 
carry out the technical assistance and training under Part B.1 of the Project; and 
(ii) thereafter, take all action required to carry out Part B.1 of the Project in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the said agreement.
Section C:
Part C.1 of the Project: Rehabilitation of the Nakhla Dam
For purposes of ensuring that adequate safety measures are in place for the 
purposes of carrying out Part C.1  of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the DGH to 
arrange for one (1) independent dam specialist, acceptable to the Bank, with specific 
expertise in concrete face rock-filled dams:
(a)
to inspect and to evaluate the safety status of the existing dam and to 
conduct a review of the concept of the structures and the conformity of their 
technical design before the starting of the works under Part C.1 of the Project;
(b)
(i) to review and to evaluate the Borrower’s operation and maintenance 
procedures of the existing dam, including the plan for construction supervision and 
quality assurance, the plan for instrumentation, and the emergency preparedness plan; 
and (ii) to provide a written report of findings and recommendations for any remedial 
work or safety-related measures necessary to upgrade the existing dam to an acceptable 
standard of safety during the carrying out of the works under Part C.1  of the 
Project; and
(c)
to carry out annual safety inspections under arrangements satisfactory to 
the Bank after completion of the works under Part C.1 of the Project.
Section D:
Mid-term Review
1.
The Borrower shall cause the DGH:
Page  14
(a)
to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with Performance Indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about January 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section E:
Project Monitoring
Without any limitation on the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall cause the DGH, commencing on September 30, 1998, and 
not later than March 31 and September 30 in each Fiscal Year and until Project 
completion, to prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, including acceptable 
Performance Indicators, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, describing the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project during 
the preceding six (6) month period.
Section F:
Project Annual Planning
The Borrower shall cause the DGH to submit to the Bank, commencing in Fiscal 
Year 1998-1999, and not later than April 30 in each Fiscal Year, a proposed annual 
work plan setting forth the Project activities envisioned to be carried out during the 
following Fiscal Year.  The Borrower shall take into account the recommendations of 
the Bank for the elaboration of the final work plan. 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of  $5,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  15
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
Page  16
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
General Conditions.
