Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21 150-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.8 MILLION (US$7.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
FOR AN
INDIGENOUS AND COMMUNITY BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT IN MEXICO
October 31, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Managment Unit
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 10, 2000)
Currency Unit = Mexican Pesos
I Mexican Peso = US$0.1056
US$I = 9.468 Mexican Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBD           Convention on Biological Diversity
CE/UNAM       Centro de Ecologia/Universidad Nacional Aut6noma de Mexico (Center of
Ecology/Autonomous University of Mexico)
CHM           Clearing House Mechanism
COINBIO       Proyecto de Conservaci6n de la Biodiversidad en Comunidades Indigenas (Indigenous and
Community Biodiversity Conservation)
CONABIO       Comisi6n Nacional para el Conocimiento y Uso de la Biodiversidad (National Commission
for Information and Use of Biodiversity)
CONAF         Consejo Nacional Forestal (National Forestry Advisory Group)
CONANP        Consejo Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas (National Council for Natural
Protected Areas)
EA            Executing Agency
Ejido         Land reform block created in the 1930-1960 land reform
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GIS           Geographic Information System
GOM           Government of Mexico
GTZ           Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Technical
Assistance Agency)
IBRD          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INE           Instituto Nacional de Ecologia (National Ecology Institute)
INI           Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National Institute of Indigenous Peoples)
MBC           Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
MBS           Mexican Biodiversity Strategy
MSP           Medium-Sized Project
NAFIN         Nacional Financiera (National Finanicial Agency)
NGO           Non-Government Organization
PMR           Project Management Report
PMU           Project Management Unit
POA           Programa Operativo Anual (Annual Operational Plan)
PROCYMAF  Proyecto de Conservaci6n y Manejo Sustentable de los Recursos Forestales en Mexico
(Community Forestry Conservation Project)
PRODEFOR   Proyecto de Desarrollo Forestal (Forestry Management Program)
PRODERS    Programa de Desarrollo Regional Sustentable, implemented by SEMARNAP
(Regional Sustainable Development Program)
PROMAD        Programa de Manejo Ambiental y Decentralizaci6n (Program of Environmental
Management and Decentralization)
RAN           Registro Agrario Nacional (National Property Registry)
SAGAR         Secretarla de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural (Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and Rural Development)
SEMARNAP  Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca (Ministry of
Environment, Natural Resources and Fishery)
SHCP          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito P6blico (Ministry of Finance)
SINAP         Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas (National System of Protected Areas)
SNIF          Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Forestal (National Forestry Information System)
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
WWF           World Wildlife Fund
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader:    Augusta Molnar



MEXICO
INDIGENOUS AND COMMUNITY BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT IN
MEXICO
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        12
3. Benefits and target population                                                       13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             20
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          21
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                             21
2. Financial                                                                            21
3. Technical                                                                            22
4. Institutional                                                                        23
5. Environmental                                                                        24
6. Social                                                                               26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   30
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       30
2. Critical risks                                                                       32



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       33
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              33
2. Other                                                                                33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            33
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           46
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis Summary                                                 47
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                 53
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         54
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       61
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     62
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    63
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              66
Annex 1 1: Social Assessment                                                               68
Annex 12: Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects                                             80
Annex 13: Environmental Analysis                                                           85
Annex 14: Institutional Arrangements and Financial Administrator                           87
Annex 15: Community Conservation and Green Venture Funds                                   91
MAP(S)
*   Pre-selected Eligible Communities in Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero
*   Vegetation and Land Use in Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero
*   Areas of Importance for Corridor Connectivity in Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero
*   Map of Mexico with COINBIO Priority Areas in Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero



MEXICO
Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSEO
Date: October 31, 2000                              Team Leader: Augusta Molnar
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade        Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P066674                                 Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Theme(s):
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                        Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
a Loan          O Credit         X Grant         O Guarantee      O Other (Specify)
IBRD counterpart of this project is a restructured on-going Community Forestry project (Ln.4137-ME) which is
expanding the technical assistance component to two states (Michoacan and Guerrero) in addition to Oaxaca. "Other"
refers to planned future IBRD assistance.
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):
Financing Plan:     Source                                     Local         Foreign          Total
GOVERNMENT                                                        3.90            0.00           3.90
IBRD)                                                             2.60            0.00           260
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                       7.50            0.00           7.50
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING                 3.00            0.00           3.00
COUNTRY
OTHER SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                      1.70            0.00           1.70
Total:                                                           18.70            0.00          18.70
Borrower/Recipient: NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Responsible agency: SEMARNAP AND NACIONAL FIANCIERA, S.N.C.
Contact Person: Salvador Anta, Delegate of Oaxaca, SEMARNAP
Tel: 529-515-0019                   Fax:                  Email:
Other Agency(ies):
SEMARNAP, Coordination Unit, PROCYMAF
Contact Person: Gerardo Segura, Coordinator of Community Forestry Project
Tel: 525-554-3952               Fax:                   Email: segura@servidor.unam.mx
Project implementation period: Seven years (2001-2007)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
FY          2001       2002        2003      2004       2005        2006       2007
Annual        1.0        0.9         1.0        1.1       1.1        1.2        1.2
Cumulative        1.0        1.9        2.9        4.0         5.1        6.3        7.5
Expected Effectiveness Date: 01/30/2001     Expected Closing Date: 06/30/2008
OCS PAD Fo   Rev M:,c. 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex ])
The objective of the project is to conserve areas of high biodiversity by strengthening and promoting
community conservation initiatives on communally owned lands in areas of high biodiversity in a
priority set of ecological zones in the states of Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero, building on the
positive cultural values and traditional management practices that these communities have developed
over a long period in relationship to the resources in these ecological zones. The project would build
upon the WWF-Oaxaca pilot program for community conservation initiatives and the technical
assistance offered in the on-going Community Forestry Project (Ln. 4137-ME; PROCYMAF) in the
states of Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero by initiating a parallel, demand-driven program for
financing the creation of community biodiversity conservation areas and complementary
biodiversity-friendly sustainable land use activities.
Project objectives would be achieved by: (a) supporting the on-going efforts of indigenous communities
and ejidos to establish permanent conservation areas, and establishing cooperative networks linking
communities with significant conservation areas within a larger region of high biodiversity; (b) building
capacity for community conservation and sustainable natural resource management among communities in
areas of high biodiversity but with weak organizations and a poor economic base; and (c) supporting the
creation of state and regional institutions that can promote and help finance community conservation
initiatives over the medium to long-termn with strong ownership by the communities themselves.
The project was originally planned to have two distinct phases of implementation: an initial pilot phase in
Oaxaca, with an expansion into the remaining two states, once the institutional mechanisms and community
demand had been tested. At appraisal, it was decided to have a more fluid implementation process-
initiating activities in Oaxaca, incorporating Michoacan during the same year, and incorporating Guerrero
six months after that, adding a larger number of eligible communities as capacity and interest developed.
To reflect on-going learning, two evaluation events have been included: an initial evaluation within the first
two years to review implementation mechanisms and adjust the criteria and procedures in the operational
manual, and a second mid-term evaluation in the fourth year which allows adjustments in targets and
distribution of subgrant activities among the different types of participating communities and ejidos. In the
first two years activities will focus on the needs of individual communities, while expanding to
multi-community capacity-building and networking in later years, and consolidating a legal framework for
community conservation.
Project Global Objectives: (see Annex I)
The global objective of the project is to conserve some of the most unique and biologically diverse areas
of Mexico, along with testing a model that may be applicable to indigenous reserves and other
communally-owned land in other parts of Latin America.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance Indicators (Objectives):
1. Total area under legally recognized community conservation in different ecozones in the project area,
and total adjacent area under sustainable use.
- 2-



2. Number of organizationally advanced communities (Categories 3 and 4) with active conservation
(and integrated resource use) on legally recognized communally owned land of high biodiversity in
Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero.
3. Number of incipient communities (Categories I and 2) with increased capacity and willingness to
engage in conservation activities.
4. Institutional framework at state level to channel resources to communities for their conservation
initiatives, and to support inter-community networking and collaboration on shared conservation goals.
Performance Indicators (Outputs):
1. Community-demand driven institutions in three states support initiatives of indigenous communities
and ejidos for community conservation over the long-term.
2. Successful elaboration of land use plans with complementary investments in community conservation
areas, in sustainable use in adjacent areas, and in organizational development for medium to long-term
sustainability.
3. A socio-economic and bio-physical integrated information system (SII) which maintains and
disseminates key information on community conservation resources to communities, government, and
academic stakeholders.
4. Recognition of community statutes as a legal framework for permanent community conservation
areas and recognition of the legal validity of the community model within the national conservation
strategy.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: R99-92, IFC/R99-82             Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/08/99
The joint IBRD/IFC Mexico Country Assistance Strategy was discussed by the Board of Directors in
May 1999. The CAS is structured along three main, interrelated themes: (i) social sustainability, (ii)
macro-economic stability and sustainable growth, and; (iii) effective public governance.
The Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation (COINBIO) project simultaneously
promotes the various strategies in the CAS. Poverty reduction in communities and ejidos would result
from creating economic benefits from sustainable use of natural resources, including biodiversity. The
CAS strategy of working within the scope of and reinforcing local and indigenous cultures in Mexico is
one of the main objectives of this project, as it seeks to reinforce indigenous community and ejido
structures to promote the creation and maintenance of community protected areas. Environmentally, the
project reflects the CAS environmental strategy in working to enhance biodiversity conservation and
strengthen institutional frameworks.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Mexico ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity on March 11, 1993. The proposed project is
consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy, supporting long-term protection of globally important
ecosystems. Oaxaca, Guerrero and Michoacan are the repositories of significant global biological
diversity with high endemism. This project supports Operational Programs 4 (Montane Ecosystems) and
- 3 -



3 (Forest Ecosystems), and would target three GEF priorities: in situ conservation of globally unique
biodiversity; sustainable use of biodiversity; and local participation in the benefits of conservation
activities. The project is fully consistent with Mexico's first report to COP IV. The project is also fully
consistent with the principles of the CBD by supporting all three levels of biodiversity (ecosystems,
species, and genes) and supports COP Decisions 1/8, 11/8, 11/9, 111/9, 111/10 and 111/12, and SBSTTA
Recommendation 1/3.
As one of the most biologically diverse of all Mexican states, Oaxaca is internationally recognized to be
of exceptional importance for biodiversity conservation. Within Oaxaca, the Sierra Juarez stands out as
an especially high conservation priority. The World Bank-World Wildlife Fund Conservation of the
Terrestrial Ecoregions of Latin America and the Caribbean (1995) assigns a "Highest" conservation
priority rating to two of the four Sierra Juarez ecoregions (Mexican Transvolcanic Pine-Oak Forests
and Balsas Dry Forests); the Sierra's other two ecoregions (Tehuantepec Moist Forests and Oaxacan
Dry Forests) receive a "High" rating. Among many animal and plant species endemic to the Sierra
Juarez are the endangered Dwarf Jay Cyanolyca nana, the cloud forest tree Oremunia mexicana, and
several showy butterfly species, including the threatened Papilio esperanza. The Sierra Juarez is also
notable as perhaps the largest remaining extent of mid-montane cloud forest in Mexico, with an
unbroken forest corridor extending from the high ridges (3,200 m) all the way to the Gulf lowlands (200
m). Besides the Sierra Juarez, the project also proposes to work with indigenous communities located in
the Chinantla and Costa regions of Oaxaca. The Chinantla region includes a diverse set of ecosystems,
including moist forest on karst limestone hills, which harbors highly localized endemic species such as
the globally threatened Sumichrast's Wren (Hylorchilus sumichrasti). The Costa region encompasses
the coastal Sierra de Miahuatlan, which also supports species found nowhere else and encompasses the
Oaxacan Moist Forests ecoregion (rated "Highest" as a conservation priority).
The proposed project areas in the states of Michoacan and Guerrero are also globally significant-for
biodiversity conservation. For example, in Michoacan, the Meseta Purepeche (Tancitaro) area contains
an important sample of the Mexican Transvolcanic Pine-Oak Forests ("Highest" priority) Ecoregion. In
Guerrero, the Sierra Madre del Sur (also known as Sierra de Atoyac) encompasses a substantial portion
of the ("Highest" priority) Sierra Madre del Sur Pine-Oak Forests Ecoregion. It is also recognized as an
Endemic Bird Area by Birdlife International due to its concentration of range-restricted birds, including
the Short-crested Coquette (Lophornis brachylopha), a hummingbird found only in this mountain range.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In Mexico, deforestation and land degradation due to population growth, past agricultural policies,
expansion of the agricultural frontier, over-exploitation, poorly regulated tourism, accelerated economic
development, and arbitrary settlement policies are having a serious impact on terrestrial biodiversity.
Up until 1986, the incentives for sustainable forest and natural resource conservation were perverse.
Commercial wood extraction relied upon a system of industrial concessions or inefficient parastatals
that had no incentives for long-term sustainability or diversification and that were not responsive to the
needs or interests of indigenous communities or ejidos, despite their legal ownership of much of the
country's forest lands as a result of land reform. Past agricultural policies fostered clearing of forests
for subsistence and commercial agriculture or cattle-rearing, and private land tenure was linked to forest
clearing. Large-scale cultivation of illegal drugs began to proliferate in remote forested areas in the
1960s as a response to acute poverty, and continues to create social conflict and local violence in some
- 4 -



areas.
In the early 1990's a series of policy reforms in the agricultural sector eliminated the past distortions in
prices, livestock and input subsidies, and trade policies, and reformed the land administration system to
strengthen land markets, while preserving ejido and indigenous community tenure. As part of this
sectoral reform, a new Forestry Law was passed in 1986 and revised in 1992, providing the legal
framework for indigenous community and ejido management of forests in their boundaries, based on a
Forest Management Plan requiring government approval. Although this provided a positive framework
for community forestry management, little additional support was provided by government in the form
of TA, links to stable markets, or other positive incentives to facilitate change in this direction, apart
from a few soft loans for industrialization of the forest communities and ejidos. In addition, small-scale
NGO-supported initiatives in promising regions were carried out, particularly in Oaxaca.
During the current six-year administrative termn in Mexico, the Ministry of Environment, Natural
Resources and Fisheries (SEMARNAP), working with the National Commission for Biodiversity
(CONABIO), has worked with civil society to develop a comprehensive approach to sustainable natural
resource use and conservation of Mexico's unique biodiversity. Under the guidance of the Convention
on Biological Diversity, Mexico (the Mexican government, academia, private sector and relevant
stakeholders) has developed a Country Strategy based on a participatory process over a six month
period. The National Biodiversity Strategy identifies four priority areas for action: (i) protection of
biodiversity rich ecosystems; (ii) sustainable use of Mexico's biolo-gical resources; (iii) expansion of
the country's knowledge base related to its biodiversity; and (iv) promotion of green market/valuation of
biological resources. Rainforest, dryforest and marine and coastal ecosystems are among the particular
ecosystems identified as priori-ties for federal protection status and for a major mainstreaming of
biodiversity considerations in economic and public investment programs. The National Strategy also
recognizes the importance of indigenous and community conservation practices that have long prevailed,
especially in rural/mountainous regions in South-Central Mexico, and supports development of
innovative programs to strengthen such approaches to natural resource management.
In keeping with these recommendations, SEMARNAP's own programs have been reoriented to be
consistent with this framework, and SEMARNAP is working with other federal and state entities to
mainstream this approach in related sectoral programs. GOM and CONABIO are now developing a
more detailed Action Plan for the Conservation, Use and Equitable Distribution of Benefits from
Biodiversity. The first five/ten year strategy is expected to be completed by early 2001.
In parallel with the efforts to develop an effective strategy for conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity, SEMARNAP has also initiated a range of programs for biodiversity conservation and
sustainable natural resource management with the aim of balancing environmental values with societal
interests and needs. In particular, SEMARNAP has promoted a set of programs to foster sustainable
land use, as a complement to the strategy to develop a national system of protected areas (SINAP). In
keeping with the country's strategic shift towards increased decentralization of environmental
management to states and municipalities and the objective of increased public participation,
SEMARNAP's programs emphasize local responsibility and participation.
The key sustainable forestry programs currently underway include: (i) an integrated model of
sustainable development with a regional focus (PRODERs); (ii) a sustainable forestry management
sinking trust fund for private producers, ejidos and indigenous communities (PRODEFOR) in those
states willing to provide counterpart financing; (iii) a pilot forestry management project to test
community forestry mechanisms (PROCYMAF); (iv) a restructured reforestation program
-5-



(PRONARE); and (v) on-going policy work on international environmental issues and the global
commons, including environmentally friendly markets. At present, there are no government-supported
programs for community-based conservation areas and sustainable use of biodiversity.
The Bank-assisted Community Forestry Project (PROCYMAF), initiated in 1998, is piloting a positive
model for channeling technical assistance to interested communities in Oaxaca to defray the cost of
forest management plans and complementary studies while improving the quality of private technical
services available to the 248 forest communities and ejidos in the state of Oaxaca. Based on a widely
disseminated typology of industrial specialization and internal organization, PROCYMAF targets
technical assistance subsidies to Oaxaca communities and ejidos on a demand-driven basis. Horizontal
information exchanges and regional organizational capacity are promoted through six regional, monthly
fora. Private service providers are required to take a core course in integrated forest management and
are encouraged to participate in continuing education courses on cutting edge forestry and natural
resource management issues.
Despite its newness, PROCYMAF is already demonstrating positive outcomes. It has built upon NGO
community resource management initiatives, including a decade of WWF-Oaxaca efforts to foster
community conservation initiatives based on better knowledge of biodiversity values. With less than
US$2 million in project expenditures at Oaxaca state level, by the end of 1999 55,000 new hectares of
forest had come under sustainable forestry management plans, generating 1,300 permanent jobs, at least
eighty million pesos in earnings to the communities, and one million pesos in fiscal revenue; in addition,
the program resulted in the establishment of 12,000 hectares of new conservation areas. Participatory
planning is now incorporating less organized communities into the project.
Building on this positive experience in Oaxaca, the GOM has restructured the on-going project to take
advantage of budget savings and expand to states where the national forestry management program
(PRODEFOR) has been operating without the advantage of capacity-building and training activities
(Michoacan and Guerrero). Assuming success with this three-state program experience, the plan is to
expand the program to the remaining three forest-rich pine-oak states (Chihuahua, Durango, and
Jalisco) and possibly linking to additional states where PRODEFOR is active.
In addition, the GoM has recognized the importance of expanding forestry development support to
include assistance to communities for conservation efforts. Under this new expanded forestry strategy,
the GoM wishes to develop and implement a program to conserve biodiverse community and ejido
lands, while supporting financially sound complementary activities of sustainable use. This model
would provide a more decentralized, grass-roots led conservation program, responding to unmet needs at
the community level. The GoM proposes to test this new program in the states of Oaxaca, Michoacan
and Guerrero; if successful, it would be expanded to other forest-rich states.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would address the lack of support for community-driven conservation initiatives and the
need to build capacity at the local level. The project would support the creation of conservation areas
based on voluntary choices by communities in areas of known high biodiversity, developing a
mechanism for more systematically recognizing these customary law commitments at the national level
to foster legitimacy and permanence. By financing investments and capacity-building complementary to
the studies and training financed by PROCYMAF and the PRODEFOR sinking fund, the proposed new
project would link communal conservation areas to sustainable use activities in adjacent forest and
agroforestry lands, and link conservation actions across individual communities.
- 6 -



Communal areas provide an ideal focus for conservation efforts in Mexico, because of clear land and
resource property rights derived from colonial decree and/or later land reform legislation. In the case of
indigenous communities, two national constitutional articles (Nos. 4 and 27), and a state decree, in the
case of Oaxaca, legitimate the right to establish land as individual parcels or as areas of restricted use,
in recognition of traditional indigenous customs and practices (usos y costumbres). These can be
recorded as customary laws (such as Communal By-laws, Estatutos Comunales) at the community level
to establish long-term, legally binding community conservation areas, registered formally in the National
Property Registry. Where large expanses of land with high biodiversity value exist under indigenous
community or ejido ownership, there is a comparative advantage to seek a model of biodiversity
conservation that is voluntary and on private (communal) land.
Based on lessons from experience, the project design is based on a strategic choice to provide
communities with adequate information and with financial incentives for conservation. Information will
be disseminated and shared amongst communities through the inter-community networks promoted by
the project. Financial incentives will not be based on unsustainable subsidies, but will facilitate the
adoption of sustainable alternatives for natural resource use that maintain or enhance conservation.
Where communities have timber and non-timber forest enterprises, conservation becomes a natural
extension of their resource management. For other high biodiversity areas, sustainable livelihoods
linked to landscape management are key incentives. Therefore, a key component for encouraging
community-driven conservation would be to promote sustainable activities in areas adjacent to lands
under protection to broaden economic benefits from conservation. In a number of cases, sustainable use
activities may well build on traditional indigenous practices, which offer a host of management
strategies that allow for biodiversity-friendly land uses to complement strict conservation in neighboring
forests (e.g., mesophilous forests in Sierra Juarez in Oaxaca).
Another strategic choice reflected in project design is the decision to rely on horizontal information and
capacity-building transfer between communities. Recognizing that leader communities have played an
important role in fostering forest management in these indigenous regions before and during
PROCYMAF, the project would work through the communities with a longer experience in collective
forest conservation and management, helping them to implement biodiversity conservation on their own
lands, as well as to build alliances and transfer knowledge to other communities. About thirty-five
Oaxaca communities have been identified as potential leaders for this "campesino-a-campesino"
arrangement.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would be implemented in highly biodiverse priority areas of Oaxaca, Michoacan and
Guerrero. The priority areas have been identified based on project preparation (Block B) supported
analyses and consultations as well as CONABIO national priority setting and WWF-Mexico studies.
The priority areas delimited in the biological assessment include 1,300 communities within the priority
biological zones of the three states, all with relatively equivalent biodiversity values. Participating
communities have been identified through a participatory social assessment process using criteria for
measuring interest and capacity for conservation (see Annex I 1) and over the life of the project
approximately 300 communities and ejidos are expected to come forward to participate in project
-7 -



activities, either capacity-building or investment.
Within the 1,300 community universe, social assessments have categorized a subset of communities by
their level of absorptive capacity and organizational commitment to conservation. A typology of four
categories, ranging from the least organized for conservation (Category 1) to the most organized
(Category 4) has been developed and activities tailored to these different levels of organization (see
Annex 12). Any community within the 1,300 is eligible to present proposals to the project, although
communities not included in the social assessment wishing to present proposals must first be categorized
by their level of absorptive capacity using this typology. Communities evaluated through the social
assessment, along with their location, are presented in Annex I 1.
Initially, it is expected that about 150 communities would be eligible for financing -- about 100 for land
use planning and capacity-building activities and about 50 for conservation and sustainable use
investments related to community conservation areas. As local capacity increases, an additional 150
communities are expected to request land use planning and training support, and conservation
investments would be financed in another 70 communities and ejidos, with about twenty of these
demonstrating the capacity and interest to manage their own conservation-related ventures over the
longer-term.
Transparent criteria for selecting proposals have been developed in the state-level social and
environmental assessments and would provide a basis for decision-making by state-level committees to
select proposals for financing. The project strategy would be to channel project proposals appropriate
for financing by PROCYMAF or PRODEFOR to those projects while targeting GEF funding to areas
not receiving financing from other sources. The eligible set of activities has been analyzed in detail by
type of activity and type of financier and is presented in Annex 12.
Communities will hire their own PSPs or NGOs for land use planning and other studies, and technical
assistance related to investment proposals, but should ensure that these are entered in the project registry
of eligible providers which would build on the existing PROCYMAF and PRODEFOR registers
developed earlier.
The project would be implemented over a period of seven years, to allow adequate time for
capacity-building in the incipient communities and for phased learning in the more advanced
communities.
Component 1. Local Capacity Building
This component would finance the costs of the three state committees and the coordinating units, which
would be the decision-making and oversight bodies for activities at state level. Activities to be financed
would include coordinating unit consultant fees, funds for technical assistance to communities and
ejidos, training of the coordinating unit in financial and technical monitoring, operational expenses, and
costs of consultation and regional meetings. During the first few years, these coordinating units would
be legally constituted and, over time, procurement responsibilities transferred completely to them during
the course of project implementation. Over the long term, these committees might evolve as independent
entities, serving the needs of those communities that are not sufficiently advanced to cover their own
conservation investment needs or directly seek resources from external sources. The coordination units
would transfer knowledge and experience during project implementation both to participating
communities and to state committees on fundraising, investment practices and grant management.
Component 2: Community Conservation and Sustainable Use Sub-proiects
The project would channel grant resources to communities to finance a progressive series of community
-8-



conservation and sustainable use subprojects tailored to the level of organization and willingness of
participating communities to undertake long-term conservation (see Annex 12). Incipient communities
with interest in conservation activities but limited organizational skills and insufficient experience with
conservation investment (Category 1) would be eligible for grants to help finance land use planning,
community conservation action plans, diagnostic studies and inventories, and training events that build
their capacity for conservation. The more advanced and experienced communities (Categories 2-4)
would be eligible for grants to help finance activities that assist them to actively manage and protect
areas designated for conservation, including fire control, demarcation, delimitation, or restoration, and
activities that promote sustainable use in adjacent resource areas which generates income while reducing
pressure on conservation areas. As a member of the state committees and in its role as enforcer of the
1992 Forest Law, SEMARNAP would ensure that environmental standards are applied to proposals
under review. Grants would be given directly to communities. In some cases, communities would
provide their own labor and technical assistance; in others, the community would contract private
service providers or purchase small goods and services. There are four types of activities (Types A-D)
which would be eligible for grant allocation, each with a different community counterpart requirement,
and each with progressively larger grant sizes:
Type A: Land Use Planning for the Establishment of Biodiversity Conservation Areas (Total:
$4.8 million: GEF: $1.7 million)
Type A activities include workshops, participatory rural appraisals, land use planning,
mapping, inventories of existing biodiversity resources, and delimitation of conservation areas,
including preparation of by-laws or communal statutes (where appropriate) for the creation of
permanent conservation areas. Grant amounts for these activities would range in size from
$5,000 to $15,000, and counterpart contribution would be at least 10% of total costs, presented
as in kind contributions of local labor, travel, participation in workshops and evaluations, and
community meetings. For pine-oak forest areas, PROCYMAF would be the lead financier,
while GEF funds would be targeted to all other forest types. While all communities (Categories
1-4) would be eligible for Type A grants, Category 3 and 4 communities would not require
Type A assistance before proceeding to Type C and D activities.
Type B: Training and Capacity-Building. including Horizontal Exchanges (Total: $1.7 million:
GEF: 0.6 million
This component would finance two types of activities necessary for communities to develop the
information base and institutional framework to establish conservation areas. Type B activities
include capacity-building for conservation activities, including training for communities
provided by third parties and by more advanced communities to less advanced ones,
strengthening of community networks, and carrying out feasibility studies as under Type C
activities. Proposals can be made by individual communities or networks of communities, with
grants in the order of $2,000 to $8,000 per community with a matching contribution of at least
20%. For pine-oak forest areas, PROCYMAF would be the lead financier, while GEF funds
would be targeted to all other forest types. While all communities (Categories 1-4) would be
eligible for Type B grants, Category 3 and 4 communities would not require Type B assistance
before proceeding to Type C and D activities.
Type C: Community Investments for Conservation Areas and Sustainable Use (Total: $4.6
million; GEF: $1.65 million)
-9-



This component would finance investment in conservation areas or in complementary
sustainable uses of biodiversity, including investments to protect or improve the administration
of conservation areas, as well as investments (and feasibility studies) for productive activities
that generate sustainable alternatives for communities. The potential scope of activities could
include forest certification studies, market studies, seed capital for eco-tourism projects, water
bottling plants, nature paths, guide training, mushroom cultivation, resin collection, carbon
sequestration and other non-timber forest product enterprises. Investments for protection could
include guard towers, identification markers, fencing, fire control mechanisms and rehabilitation
of forest fringes. All Type C proposals would be based on a matching formula to apply the
incremental cost principle, with a community counterpart of at least 25% for sustainable use
projects and at least 20% for conservation activities, and would range in size from $15,000 to
$20,000. PROCYMAF would be the lead financier for pilot scale non-timber forest product
based investments and both PROCYMAF and PRODEFOR for technical assistance/study
components of these investments in eligible forest types. Only Category 3 and 4 communities
are eligible to participate in Type C activities.
Type D: Community Green Venture Funds (Total: $1.8 million; GEF: $0.63 million)
Category 4 communities that have developed the capacity to invest in more substantial projects
of sustainable use and which have a longer-term commitment to conservation of their permanent
areas would become eligible for a fourth type of grant investment, which would be a payment
into a revolving fund established at the community level as a separate conservation account (see
Annex 15). Under this latter modality, communities that are ready to create a permanent fund
for continued financing of sustainable use activities and conservation areas would be eligible for
a larger size grant and would agree to reimburse both the amount of the grant and their own
matching investment into a community account specifically established for conservation
investments. This financing modality would be accessed on a voluntary, self-selecting basis, and
would be targeted to the more advanced communities (Category 4) which have reached a point
of recognizing the value of long-term conservation initiatives and are willing and able to
dedicate resources to this purpose. The scheme would provide a learning experience to the
community which should make them eligible for future support from other local and
intemational conservation donors or from green venture capital sources. The size of this grant is
expected to be between $20,000 and $50,000, with at least an equivalent amount of community
counterpart. Specific technical assistance would also be provided to those communities that
agree to establish permanent revolving funds for conservation-related investments to help them
establish the rules of such funds and transfer best practices on accounting and management
practices.
Component 3. Biological Monitoring and Evaluation
Project implementation monitoring would be carried out throughout the project implementation period to
follow both physical execution as well as biodiversity changes over time. An important aspect of this
component would be generating the needed information to assess the viability of the biodiversity
conservation areas being established. Participatory evaluation studies would be designed and carried out to
document social organizational processes and issues. An important part of the M&E system would be the
Integrated Information System (SlI), an interactive and dynamic geo-referenced data base. Evaluation
activities would include an initial review at the end of the second year and a midterm review at the end of
the fourth year, which would be carried out to assess project experience and make adjustments as needed in
project design. All biodiversity monitoring data generated through this project will be forwarded into the
- 10-



Clearing House Mechanism (CHM) that the GOM is developing to provide decentralized access to
biodiversity conservation information.
Component 4: National Coordination
This component would finance the costs of the national coordination unit, the national oversight
committee, the supervision and monitoring activities, establishment of the legal and conceptual
framework for community conservation as a valid protected areas model, and reporting to the
Government and the Bank. Evaluation and dissemination activities would include documenting project
lessons and sharing these findings with other community and indigenous groups in Mexico and the Latin
American region, to facilitate cross-fertilization of experiences with innovative programs across states
and elsewhere in Latin America (e.g., Argentina, Peru, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Central America,
etc.).
- 11 -



f X iBE C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EF                                           % O
sank       GEE~~GE
..J4~!WL  ot~t    J~~Lfinancing4US$ VA)financing
1. Local Capacity Building                      2.70       14.4    0.65      25.0     1.70    22.7
2. Community Conservation                      12.90       69.0    1.70      65.4     4.58    61.1
and Sustainable Use
Subprojects*
a) Land Use Planning
b) Training for the
Establishment of
Conservation Areas;
c) Community Investments
for Conservation
Activities;
d) Sustainable Use
3. Biological Monitoring and                    1.50        8.0    0.25       9.6     0.42      5.6
Evaluation
4. National Coordination                        1.60        8.6    0.00       0.0      0.80    10.7
0.0               0.0              0.0
0.0               0.0              0.0
Total Project Costs               |   18.70      100.0    2.60      100.0     7.50   100.0
Total Financing Required                    18.70      100.0    2.60     100.0     7.50   100.0
* See text above under Component 2 or Annex 2 for total and GEF costs of subprojects A-D.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project seeks to increase the role of indigenous communities and ejidos in biodiversity conservation
efforts and to better complement initiatives for community forest management and sustainable agroforestry
with landscape conservation objectives. The project would support activities at the state level in Oaxaca,
Michoacan and Guerrero to integrate community conservation statutes as a basis for permanent
conservation in line with the 1997 Oaxaca law for the Rights of the Indigenous Peoples and Communities
of the State of Oaxaca, which includes ratification of customary land-use designations. The project would
assist communities to establish their communal statutes and to register these in the National Agrarian
Registry, consistent with the national Agrarian Law for all three states and the Oaxaca law. The project
would also create sustainable institutional mechanisms in the form of state committees for promoting
conservation agreements and legitimate these in the eyes of government. The committees allow communities
to take the lead on their own biodiversity conservation decisions. The GOM would seek to replicate the
model at the national level as a complement to the current SINAP strategy.
State-level committees are being created as a pilot institutional mechanism to support community-level and
multi-community conservation initiatives, including technical assistance, training and community
investment. Should these prove an effective structure, it is hoped that they would develop a permanence
after the project as a civil association with strong community ownership. To ensure that the
community-driven model is legitimated at national level, the national committee is being created to ensure
that the relevant national institutions are involved in project implementation and recognize this as a valid
conservation model.
- 12 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The primary beneficiaries and target population would be the 150-200 indigenous communities and
ejidos and their members in the states of Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero who could be expected to
establish conservation areas and the other 100 indigenous communities and ejidos who would
participate in training and capacity-building.
Domestic benefits would include enhanced resource and livelihood security due to fire control, improved
recharging of water systems, and long-term stability of the ecological system in traditional territories.
Project activities would contribute to broadening the livelihood strategies of participating communities
and to enhancing cultural heritage, by preserving traditional knowledge and practices for biodiversity
conservation and management. Conservation activities would raise local awareness of the value of
Forestry Management Plan information on species diversity and help improve community
decision-making on resource use in the adjacent productive forest areas.
Local and national government agencies would benefit from strengthened organizational capacity, better
relationships with indigenous communities and ejidos for other goals, as well as actualized and
replicable policies and programs promoting biodiversity conservation with sustainable natural resource
use. The experience in PROCYMAF has been that natural resource management initiatives have helped
some communities to solve related problems hindering their development, such as resolving boundary
disputes or intemal conflict over land-use decisions.
Mexico would benefit from conservation efforts on the part of indigenous communities and ejidos, both
the individual conservation areas and the clustering of conservation areas where alliances would permit
the linking of some areas for management purposes. It would also benefit from the clarification of legal
standards established for these activities in states such as Michoacan and Guerrero.
The global benefits include: (a) demarcation and conservation of critical forest ecosystems and
enhancing probability of achieving long-term conservation; (b) sustainable management of critical
habitats in the long-term; (c) development of incentives to maintain protected areas and forest habitats in
the long-term; (d) established capacity to ensure adequate management of community protected areas
sustainably; and (e) new knowledge concerning the feasibility of community conservation approaches
and the factors associated with success.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Arrangements: (see Annex 14)
As a result of a participatory process of project design involving community, NGO, academic and
government stakeholders, it was decided that the project should have (i) a high level of community
decision-making and a flexible role in modifying the criteria for project operation; and (ii) a minimum
technical and strategic oversight by government to ensure institutionalization of the community
conservation model.
Project Coordination and Management. The project will be implemented (under the general direction of
SEMARNAP) by state committees and coordinators which represent the participating communities and
ejidos (see Annex 14). Each state committee would establish small state coordination units with a
coordinator responsible for carrying out the project. Implementation is therefore decentralized to the three
states. The state committees will have six members; three representing the communities, one representing
the SEMARNAP delegation in the state, one representing the state government, and one representing the
- 13 -



NGO/academic environment sector. Each representative will be selected by its sector with a term in office
to be agreed by the committee. Each sector will be responsible for deciding the selection rules for their
representative(s). In Oaxaca, the communities and ejidos have tentatively decided that one representative
will be selected by the communities from each of three regions included in the project area. In Michoacan,
there is likely to be a similar regionalization of the representatives from ejidos and communities. There will
be no prior decision on the chair of the committee. These internal rules of order will be determined by the
committees. Each state coordinator will have responsibility for procurement and expenditures related to
consultants, promotion and packaging of the community subproject proposals to be submitted to the
committees for review. The state coordinator will also be accountable for supervision and monitoring of the
subprojects that have been approved and that are under implementation, as well as reporting requirements
for M&E, evaluation, and financial reporting. The coordination units at state level will liaise closely with
the PROCYMAF coordination units and promotional staff to ensure consistency in technical information
and to avoid duplication of resources for activities that PROCYMAF or PRODEFOR can finance under
the loan and government resources.
Overall implementation programming and progress will be assigned to a national oversight committee,
supported by a national coordinator. The national coordinator will assist in establishing the three state
committees and in identifying the coordinators who will support the state committees. The national
coordinator will have resources assigned for monitoring and evaluation, financial reporting, and special
studies, as well as operational expenses for travel in the three states. The national committee will include
community representatives of the three state-level committees, PROCYMAF (SEMARNAP), the National
Council for Natural Protected Areas (CONANP), the National Biodiversity Institute (CONABIO), the
National Forestry Advisory Group (CONAF), with additional observers including NAFIN, the academic
sector and other personnel from SEMARNAP. Civil society representatives will be selected by their sector,
and will have a rotational appointment as agreed by the committee.
The four coordinators will be recruited by the financial administrator in consultation with SEMARNAP
and state-level stakeholders. Terms of reference for these and the administrator positions will be included in
the operational manual. In addition, the financial administrator will recruit full or part-time financial
accountants at the national and state level to generate financial and progress reports and records and
prepare project financial management reports (PMRs). The financial administrator would recruit and hire
the coordination staff on the basis of job profiles developed in the operational manual and in consultation
with SEMARNAP and state stakeholders. A government resolution at federal level will be needed to
establish the national and state level committees and mandate their authority over their respective
coordinators. In the event of disagreements, the national coordinator will resolve disputes at state level.
SEMARNAP will have representation on the four committees, which will be the PROCYMAF project
coordinator or their equivalent at both national and state levels. SEMARNAP will also be responsible for
ensuring that proposed subprojects are in compliance with the Bank's environmental assessment
requirements. Where activities are similar to those in PROCYMAF, standard TORs with environmental
criteria will be provided to the beneficiaries and the committee. Where extraction of products is
contemplated, SEMARNAP has responsibility by law to ensure that communities are managing the
resource according to an agreed action plan. The underlying rationale of the project is that communities
will have the incentive to undertake conservation initiatives in the hope of an international certification,
which automatically implies that the World Bank's EA requirements would be met, should this rationale be
correct.
Financial Administrator. NAFIN will be the recipient of the grant resources for administrative
purposes, and provide oversight as well as technical assistance on financial management to the four
- 14 -



coordination units (three state and one national). The financial administrator will house the national
coordination unit and disburse resources from a special account to be set up for administration of the
grant money. The financial administrator will be in charge of procurement and payments related to the
coordination staff at both levels (coordinators and administrators). Based on an annual operation plan
(POA), coordinators at the different levels will procure goods and services under agreed procedures and
arrangements, but NAFIN will process payments and transfers (including resources for the necessary
operational expenses and hiring of consultants and technical assistance).
In order to be in full compliance with Bank requirements per OP/BP 10.02, a certified specialist carried
out a financial management assessment of NAFRN-executing agency. The conclusion of this review is
that NAFIN, the financial administrator of the funds, would be certified as 4-b in the case of this
project, since the financial management system of NAF1N is compliant with the Bank's requirements,
but the specific system that will be established under the project at national and state levels has not yet
been put in place, nor the staff (administrators) hired. The administrators would, however, follow
modified NAFIN standards. NAFIN has considerable experience with execution of this type of project;
it is currently implementing two Bank projects (an IDF grant and a GEF project) and is the financial
agency for 14 existing WB-financed projects. The project implementing unit in NAFIN
(NAFIN-executing agency) will be satisfactorily integrated into the Bank regarding staffing as well as
MIS, internal controls, procedures and financial management, as was done for the above mentioned
Bank projects. NAFIN standards are adequate at this stage for Board presentation.
NAFIN-executing agency is taking actions to have an MIS which will produce quarterly PMRs and
eventually allow for PMRs-based disbursements. Traditional disbursement methods (SOEs, special
commitments and direct payments) will be used until NAFIN is ready to adopt the Financial
Management Initiative (FMI) to disburse based on PMRs.
Disbursement and Flow of Funds. A Special Account in US dollars with an initial deposit of US$0.4
million would be established in NAFIN. This special account will be replenished and will be used for all
transactions with a value of less than 20% of the amount advanced to the Special Account. Traditional
documentation requirements apply for direct payments, special commitments and statements of
expenditures (SOEs). If project is converted to PMR-based disbursement methodology, disbursement
procedures should be in line with the Financial Management Initiative (FMI). NAFIN-executing agency,
in coordination with NAFIN-financial agency, would prepare the necessary documentation for prompt
disbursements.
The financial administrator will establish, as above mentioned, a Special Account created for the
purpose of the community conservation initiative. State-level operating accounts would be established
in local currency (MXN - Mexican pesos) for channeling GEF resources to the state level units. Four
accounts would therefore be established: (i) the first account would cover coordinating and management
costs at the regional and state level, including direct expenditures incurred by the coordination units,
such as consultant fees, travel and subsistence of staff and consultants, M&E studies, and training and
capacity-building activities contracted for more than one state; (ii) the three other accounts would be
established at the state level to cover the costs in the annual operating plan for community subprojects,
including studies and investments in conservation areas, sustainable use activities, consultant technical
assistance, and training and capacity-building, as authorized by the state committees. The financial
administrator would release funds upon authorization of the respective committee, on the signature of
the coordinator, who would have legal authority derived from the financial administrator's legal
authority.
- 15 -



The above-mentioned operating accounts will be used for project transactions, and will be replenished
on a monthly basis. The amount to be transferred from the Special Account to these accounts must be
only the estimated amount necessary to cover one month of eligible expenditures. It is important to
indicate that NAFIN will be in charge of all payments regarding project operations.
Auditing. NAFIN-executing agency will maintain records, accounts, files and project documentation, and
will produce standard financial statements (including those for the Special Account) according to
International Accounting Standards. As required by the Bank, project operations will be audited annually in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures consistently applied, by an
independent and qualified auditor (based on Bank guidelines and TOR for auditing). The audit report
(including financial statements, auditor's opinions, and information on internal controls and compliance
with laws, regulations and agreements) will be sent to the Bank within six months after each audited fiscal
year.
Initial and Midterm Review. As will be specified in the Operational Manual for the project, an initial
review would be carried out toward the end of the second year to evaluate needed adjustments in the
project implementation arrangements and design including: (a) project scope; (b) selection criteria for
communities, particularly to ensure that communities most in need of resources are selected if there is
excess demand for project funds; (c) responsibilities of the state and regional committees and role of
communities in project decision-making; and (d) viability of clusters of conservation areas and alliances
across communities. Government staff of the associated PROCYMAF and PRODEFOR projects along
with state protected areas and conservation agency authorities would participate. There would be a
participatory evaluation mechanism for consultation with communities at the local level and to design
the evaluation framework. Indicators would be revised at this time as well, if needed. A midterm review
would be carried out at the end of the fourth year for a full assessment of the model and any adjustments
needed in project design.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
SEMARNAP has become increasingly aware of the need to complement a biodiversity conservation
strategy based on the federal protected area system (SINAP) with sustainable management initiatives
that recognize the strong conservation ethic of indigenous communities in specific regions of Mexico,
such as the Zapoteco, Chinanteco, and Mixteco of Oaxaca, which combine indigenous production
systems with cultural concern for preserving their resource base. A number of alternatives have been
evaluated for this project and are summarized below:
An Adaptable Program Grant was considered as a way to address the need for phasing, but it was
rejected because of the small size of the project and the additional transaction costs that would be
entailed. Instead, a midterm review mechanism has been adopted which should achieve the same goal,
providing an opportunity for taking stock of project performance and institutional arrangements after the
fourth year of the project.
Another alternative considered was to focus initial conservation investments exclusively on community
and ejido lands in the state of Oaxaca. This was rejected because centers of community conservation
initiatives exist in both Michoacan and Guerrero, and because the restructuring of PROCYMAF offers
a strong opportunity to complement PROCYMAF technical assistance with the project's conservation
capacity-building initiatives.
- 16 -



The option to delay project preparation until the change of administration in 2001 was considered, but was
rejected because of the momentum developed under the Block A/B process and the current phase of
PROCYMAF. Also, while the federal administration will change in 2001, the state administrations will
continue in place, as they are on a separate electoral cycle. Therefore, continuity of support is expected at
the state level, which is a critical consideration, given the decentralized management framework proposed
for the project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
I  .                  ..    (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
1. Decentralization - Institutional  1.1 Environmental Management
Development                       and Decentralization Project
(PROMAD)(PE-P036005)(und
er preparation)
1.2 Institutional Coordination
For Regional Sustainable
Development
ESW(EW-P66935)
2. Natural Resource Management    2.1 Rural Development in          S             S
Marginal Areas (PE-P60908)
2.2 Community Forestry            S             S
(Ln-4137 MX) (PROCYMAF)
3. Social Development             3.1 Indigenous Country Profiles
(EW-P60278)
4. GEF - Biodiversity             4.1 Protected Areas Program       S             S
(GE-P52209)
4.2 El Triunfo Biodiversity       S             S
Conservation in Coffee
Landscape MSP (GM-P60558)
4.3 Mesoamerican Barrier Reef
(regional project, under
preparation) (GE-60908)
4.4 Northern Border (Ln           S             S
3750-MX)
4.5 Land Conservation
Mechanisms in Mexico
(GM-65923)(Under
preparation)
Other development agencies
UNDP/GEF                          Small Grants Program -
Yucatan Peninsula
- 17-



Conservation of biodiversity
and sustainable development in
three priority regions
(PRODERS)
Conservation of Centla
Wetlands, Tabasco MSP
GTZ                                Sustainable Forestry in
Quintana Roo and Campeche
(Plan Piloto Forestal)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Coordination with other Implementing Agencies:
(a) Country Program Framework for Biodiversity
The Government of Mexico is working with the GEF Secretariat and the Implementing Agencies to
develop a Programmatic Framework for GEF support of biodiversity conservation initiatives in Mexico
over the next 5-10 years. The Framework consists of a comprehensive approach that commits to
measurable progress in conservation and sustainable use, while incorporating biodiversity objectives
into the country's national strategies and plans. It is intended to be a cost-effective means to help the
country conserve and sustain its vast biodiversity.
A key consideration for Mexico in the development of the programmatic framework is the viability of
the current, robust pipeline in conservation and sustainable use that has been identified by the country
with the assistance of the Implementing Agencies. This pipeline - containing the first full-scale projects
in biodiversity in the past eight years - supports many of the areas and national priorities identified in
the Mexican biodiversity strategy (MBS) as well as the instruments developed by the Government of
Mexico for conservation and sustainable use.
In its four principal areas (conservation, sustainable use, biodiversity knowledge and natural resource
valuation) the MBS identifies areas of opportunity for increased knowledge and research as well as for
engaging other sectors and actors in cross-cutting efforts needed to deepen and strengthen the country's
capacity to respond to threats. The combination of the MBS and diverse policy instruments and
commitments enable Mexico to focus on measurable outcomes and address the gaps identified in the
development of its Action Plan.
The pipeline responds to national priorities in the four "pillars" of the MBS providing for in situ
conservation, sustainable use initiatives and economic and social valuation of natural resources. Each
of the projects in the pipeline supports different aspects of the national strategy. The Consolidation of
SINAP proposal is the centerpiece of the conservation component, and focuses on the government and
civil society sectors. The current proposal provides an important complement to the SINAP approach
by focusing on conservation through the indigenous and community sectors, and protecting biodiversity
through non-federal conservation regimes.
The conservation projects are complemented by sustainable use projects such as Biodiversity
Conservation and Sustainable Use in Three Priority Regions (see below), the Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor project (which will complement mainstreaming as well as conservation activities), and
- 18-



Conservation and Sustainable Use in the Biosphere Reserve of Sierra Gorda. These initiatives will
contribute to identifying innovative and decentralized conservation and sustainable use mechanisms that
can serve as models for long-term, replicable conservation, as well as promoting the integration of civil
society in decentralized PA management, consistent with long-term government strategies.
(b) Project Level Coordination
The UNDP/GEF Biodiversity Conservation in 3 Priority Regions Project (PRODERS) focuses on the
promotion of sustainable development in 3 high priority regions around natural protected areas (decreed or
to be decreed under federal protection), to reduce the threats to conservation of biodiversity of global
relevance. The 3 priority areas where the regional programs will be developed are: i) La Chinantla,
Oaxaca; ii) Los Tuxtlas-Santa Marta, Veracruz (both sites are classified as Rain Forest (Bosques
humedos de Tehuantepec) ecoregion); and iii) La Montana, Guerrero (classified as Tropical Subhumid
(Bosque tropical subhumedo del Balsas) ecoregion type). The PRODERS project will support (a) Natural
Resources assessment to develop conservation and sustainable use plans (NRM); (b) Training and
organizational strengthening; (c) Pilot projects for the development/validation of biodiversity friendly
productive practices; (d) Technical assistance to develop technology and markets for organic/biodiversity
friendly certified products; (e) Conservation/restoration programs in coordination with the Natural
Protected Areas management programs. The Project will work through a participatory process consisting
of (i) Integration of Regional Councils by the producers sharing a common ecosystem and/or microregion;
(ii) Community planning/assessment of natural resources, productive projects at local levels, organization,
training; public services and infrastructure needs; and (iii) Representation of the Regional Councils within
the State Planning Committees (Coplade), where the State and Federal officials manage public investment
for works and services.
The UNDP/GEF PRODERS and proposed WB/GEF COINBIO projects, although operating in two
common states (Oaxaca and Guerrero) are complementary, rather than duplicative. First, the geographic
location of project areas has been carefully coordinated to avoid overlap of intervention sites. The
PRODERS project sites are exclusively focused on tropical forests, while COINBIO activities have a
heavy emphasis on temperate forest lands, ranging from montane pine-oak through to mesophilous
forests. Secondly, the focus of project activities and project objectives are distinct: PRODERS is based
on the thesis that the promotion of sustainable use and conservation of natural resources around natural
protected areas of global relevance can be attained through the promotion of a participatory process,
creating Regional Councils which enable the rural producers to organize, evaluate their resources and
receive technical assistance to develop better NRM practices and secure a representation in the State
planning bodies to re-orient and access the relevant programs in support of the sustainable development
alternative of their own design. The principle is to develop local capacities to adopt sustainable use
practices and reduce the pressure on highly threatened natural protected areas. In the case of the
COINBIO project, the underlying assumption is that at least partially, the positive state of conservation
of extensive areas of forest and mountain ecosystems in the states of Oaxaca, Guerrero and Michoacan,
where PROCYMAF is working, can be explained through the land tenure/social organization structure of
the indigenous and mestizo communities at three levels: a) the community institutions (Community
Statute, Assembly, Customary Law) which determine a wiser, probably more conservative collective
decision-making process, b) the planning instruments that allow a minimum of conflict on internal
management of the natural resources owned collectively, and c) specific productive practices that involve
a biodiversity-friendly management of the fauna, flora and soil in communal lands.
The PROCYMAF, PRODERS and COINBIO teams are working together to ensure common approaches
to what should be considered sustainable use activities and to avoid duplication of preparation work on the
- 19-



feasibility of sustainable use activities, where they are applicable to both project areas.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The recent lessons from the 1999 GEF portfolio review coincide well with the lessons learned in Mexico
related to community-based conservation:
The first lesson is the need for full community involvement is all stages of project design,
implementation and monitoring and evaluation. The Community Forestry Project, PROCYMAF, is in
its third year of implementation and is proving that full community involvement is an effective strategy
for improving natural resource manage-ment and conservation by communities and ejidos. The
proposed COINBIO project is continuing this approach in both the preparation and implementation
phases.
The second lesson is that conservation efforts need to be combined with activities aimed at meeting
socio-economic needs. This is fully consistent with the project design approach of providing incentives
for community-based conservation by complementing protection with sustainable use in adjacent
landscapes.
The third lesson (from the GEF PIR FY99 report) is that effective biodiversity conservation requires
flexibie, long-term approaches that build in adaptive management based on feedback from experience.
The project design reflects this lesson in two ways: (a) first, by targeting project activities to the
organizational capacity of the communities concerned and selecting communities for conservation
actions on the basis of their level of capacity and interest; and (b) second, by including progressive grant
financing tailored to the long-term commitment and capacity of the communities and providing
experience that enables more advanced communities and the state committees to capture matching
resources from local and international conservation donors and from venture capital sources after the
project ends.
The last lesson is the need to give attention to the broader political and socio-economic environment within
which activities take place. This is consistent with PROCYMAF experience as to: (a) the value of
choosing communities where incentives for natural resource management are embodied in cultural and
social authority structures; and (b) the importance of tailoring the program to the individual state level,
with strong ownership and implementation by the state authorities, rather than designing a federal program
using a more generic approach. The proposed CO[NBIO project purposely builds on the traditional
authority structures and estatutos comunales at the local level, and supports the reform framework
established for the forestry and conservation sectors at the federal levels.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The project originated at the local level with a request for Block A grant financing to prepare a
medium-size project proposal from the communities of the Sierra Juarez in Oaxaca state. SEMARNAP
strongly supported the initiative, since it fits with the decentralized policy framework and the increased
emphasis on community-based conservation in SEMARNAP and GoM's current strategies. Based on
the positive response to the participatory preparation activities in Oaxaca, SEMARNAP subsequently
proposed that the project concept be expanded to include other states and regions within the
PROCYMAF project. This resulted in a PDF Block B request for a full size project, which was
approved by the GEF Secretariat in June 1999.
As indicated above, there is strong support at the federal level for decentralization of conservation
- 20 -



initiatives to the state and community level. Throughout the preparation process, the PROCYMAF
project team has provided assistance in coordinating project preparation activities, workshops, and
preparation logistics between states and at the federal level. The national GEF Focal Point (Ministry of
Finance) has sent a letter endorsing the project and expressing its priority for GEF financing.
At the state government level, the Governors of Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero have endorsed the
importance of supporting conservation initiatives by communities with forestry resources, as well of
expanding the scope of PROCYMAF technical assistance to their respective states.
The strongest support comes from the communities themselves. The Block A grant awardees in Oaxaca
have made significant progress in identifying areas for conservation and potential alliances among
communities in contiguous blocks of biodiversity. The decision to expand investment activities to more
regions of Oaxaca and the more advanced regions of Michoacan and Guerrero was taken in response to the
strong demand expressed by these communities in the planning workshops and consultation events
supported under the PDF Block B.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The Bank has been involved for the past six years in community forestry and protected
areas/biodiversity conservation in Mexico. PROCYMAF is the outcome of a long policy dialogue with
the Government, beginning with an analysis of the difficulties encountered in ejido forestry in
Chihuahua and Durango (under the earlier Mexico Forestry Project which concluded in 1993) and
culminating in the discussion of the 1995 Resource Conservation and Forest Sector Review (Gray
Cover Report No. 13114-ME). This proposed new project has drawn upon experiences gained in
Mexico and elsewhere in the LAC Region and in other Bank-financed projects for community resource
management and joint partnerships between government and local level institutions. For example, the
Bank's Indigenous Peoples Initiative in LAC is building parallel experiences in Peru and Bolivia on
community biodiversity conservation, which will generate valuable lessons in the future.
The GEF supports the conservation of globally significant ecosystems and local participation in the
economic benefits from biodiversity conservation programs. GEF involvement in this project will enable
the participating communities and states to draw upon GEF world-wide experience in complementary
protection and sustainable use activities in biosphere reserve management, and in recently approved
projects which support indigenous peoples' involvement in biodiversity conservation. GEF involvement has
catalyzed federal support for locally-based conservation initiatives, which otherwise might not have
received adequate operational and financial support. The proposed project is expected to provide models
that can be disseminated and adapted for use elsewhere in Mexico and in other countries.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$7.4 million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
o Incremental Cost
* Other (specify)
An incremental cost analysis has been prepared and is attached as Annex 3.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
- 21 -



(1) Project preparation includes studies of financial sustainability mechanisms for state protected areas
and conservation activities, including conservation funds. These studies will help states identify viable
models for such funds. GEF funds may be channeled through such mechanisms based on midterm
evaluation recommendations.
(2) Other financial issues relate to the viability of biodiversity-friendly subproject enterprises and the
cost-effectiveness of the community green venture capital funding (Component 2, Type D). Business
plans would be developed for such activities prior to their funding under the project to help ensure that
these subprojects are economically and financially sustainable. Technical notes on productive projects
would be disseminated based on project experience within Mexico and outside the region. In order for
communities to become eligible for Type D revolving fund investments, there must be evidence of a
separate account and of community matching investment. For appraisal of this component, a number of
green venture and community capital funds were evaluated and lessons applied to the design of Type D.
The main rationale for this component is the learning opportunity, whereby committed communities
would have a chance to establish such an account with project technical assistance and thereby gain
experience to enable them to directly seek other sources of venture capital as well as to learn about the
dynamics of markets for environmental products. (See Annex 15).
Fiscal Impact:
SEMARNAP has evaluated the overall proposed GEF package and analyzed the fiscal impacts in terms of
staff and counterpart expenditure, and has found that proposed expenditure levels are consistent with
long-term programs planned for the sector. There is little new fiscal impact from the project in the short or
long-term. The counterpart of the project consists of existing commitments under PROCYMAF (Ln.
4137-ME) and the PRODEFOR (which has GOM funds in the trust fund currently that have not yet been
matched by the State) and which is a commitment to the State governments which remains effective across
the change of administration. PRODEFOR is a program which substitutes for the earlier provision of
government-hired extension agents to provide services to forest communities. Its equivalent is expected to
exist regardless of whether PRODEFOR itself is still in existence at the end of the project. In addition,
Oaxaca has already created a conservation fund with state, federal and other resources that will be a future
source of financing to communities and ejidos that have strong proposals, while Michoacan and Guerrero
are expected to establish similar funds during the life of the project.
3. Technical:
The project would seek to document successful conservation strategies currently employed by
communities and ejidos and to promote incentives for establishing and maintaining biodiversity
corridors on private lands. Many of these strategies and methodologies are applicable not only within
the areas where they are currently being practiced but in other areas facing similar situations and
circumstances. Therefore, the project seeks not only to provide extemal technical assistance to specific,
participating communities, but also to facilitate the flow and exchange of information between
communities and ejidos, helping them to share both successes and failures.
Some strategies and practices that were sustainable and successful in the past may no longer be so as a
result of increasing pressure on the land. In this case, the project would provide technical assistance to
help mitigate and revise unsustainable practices. The challenge will be to provide sustainable
alternatives to existing unsustainable practices that also provide economic benefits.
Proposals will be evaluated by the state committee which include at least two representatives (NGO and
SEMARNAP) with environmental assessment professional capacity. Where the activities to be financed
- 22 -



are similar to those already financed by PROCYMAF and PRODEFOR, the standard TORs, which
include environmental standards and criteria, will be applied in the evaluation of proposals. Otherwise,
new TORs will be developed. During implementation, the coordinators are responsible for monitoring
the technical soundness of the subprojects, and making recommended adjustments as needed in the
standard TORs.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
There are no outstanding issues regarding the executing agencies and implementation arrangements.
One issue for review during the implementation of the project is the relative roles of the state versus
federal conservation and forestry agencies, since the current policy framework in Mexico is one in which
all regulatory functions in this sector rest with federal agencies. Should this policy framework change
with decentralization, a stronger role of the state agencies would emerge in the project.
Another implementation issue is the long-term role of the communities in the state committees and project
decision-making. The project is designed on the premise that, with capacity-building and training,
communities with significant resources for conservation will begin to take the lead in coordination and
planning of community-based conservation, and that project responsibilities will be increasingly led by
communities. This needs monitoring during the implementation phase. The project also builds on the idea
of regional networks of communities, established in PROCYMAF in Oaxaca, that meet as a block to
exchange experiences, learn of development opportunities, and present their natural resource management
needs to policy-makers. Nascent networks would be strengthened in Michoacan and Guerrero along the
lines of this model.
4.2 Project management:
Project operational manuals will provide: (a) detailed terms of reference for implementing agencies and
project coordinators, (b) M&E studies and plans, (c) standard contracts for community subprojects
where applicable, (d) criteria for selection of participating communities and project activities, (e)
financial and performance reporting and record-keeping, (f) environmental standards applicable to all
conservation investments and pilot projects, and (g) rosters of eligible service-providers. The manual
has been drafted and was discussed during negotiations, with final refinements possible until project
effectiveness. The roster of eligible service-providers would be developed by the committees in each
state prior to requesting proposals for financing. PROCYMAF documents will initially be used as a
baseline for terms of reference and service-provider rosters, and modified as necessary.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The bulk of funds would be executed by the beneficiary communities and contracts are expected to be very
small; thus, procurement methods identified are simple and there are no particular issues to be addressed. A
detailed Procurement Assessment and Action Plan are provided in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
GEF funds would be disbursed through a private financial administrator, NAFIN. The criteria used to
select the financial administrator to manage GEF funds were:
*   Transparency and reputation of the institution's structure
*   Quality of the physical and human infrastructure
- 23 -



* Quality of the internal administrative and accounting system
*   Ability to produce financial and technical reports acceptable to the World Bank
*   Regional presence in the three states
*   Experience with similar types of responsibilities with international agencies
*   Positive experience with indigenous communities
*   Interest in entering as a partner in the project
*   Amount of resources managed
The functions of the financial administrator in the project include:
*   Administer the GEF resources and release funds upon instruction of coordinating committees;
*   Generate the reports and information databases required by the World Bank, providing information on
an as requested basis to the World Bank;
*   Audit the use of the funds, using World Bank norms;
*   Train the national and state-level administrators in the coordination units;
*   Transfer lessons of experience to the coordinators and their clients as appropriate;
* Maintain information regarding the subgrants;
*   Supervise the work of the coordinators and accountants;
*   Assure that the Operational Manual is being applied;
-   Promote and strengthen community initiatives to manage community conservation funds;
-   Provide a legal authority to the state level coordination units to approve grants, transfer funds, and
procure goods and services needed by the coordination units for carrying out their duties.
The financial administrator would provide an accounting and administrative home to the project and act as
Recipient of the GEF grant for purposes of the grant legal agreement. Either through the agreement with
the financial administrator or as a separate means of support to the State Committees, specialists would be
contracted to train the coordination units in financial management and administration and transfer expertise
regarding foundation grant-making requirements and procedures.
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In preparing the EA (Annex 13), information, maps and data available from previous assessments
conducted for the PROCYMAF project were analyzed. TORs were prepared for the consultant responsible
for developing the set of criteria to be used for identifying project sites in the three states. Secondary
statistical and biological information was collected from CONABIO to complement data collected in the
site identification study. This information was analyzed in conjunction with data generated through the
social assessment for this project in order to produce a set of socio-economic information about potential
project sites that overlapped with biological data developed during the environmental assessment. This data
was used to identify priority sites for project implementation. Standard TORs from PROCYMAF that can
be used when appropriate, already include environmental assessment criteria for most types of activities,
and there is a procedure that was followed with pilot non-timber forest product projects for environmental
assessment and monitoring. The project structure would follow established SEMARNAP
(PROFEPA-environmental controller) and PROCYMAF procedures in that regard.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
- 24 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 28, 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Participatory mechanisms for stakeholder consultation were adapted from those developed for
PROCYMAF, including regional consultative forums with indigenous communities and organizations and
consultation workshops held as part of the studies conducted with project preparation funding.
Environmental criteria were crossed with socio-economic criteria to ensure both measures were taken into
account.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project is expected to have an overall positive impact on the biodiversity and environment and there
are no major environmental risks. Therefore it has been given a rating of "B". There are no negative
impacts expected from the sustainable use and forest conservation activities included in the project, and
the selection of subprojects will be based on the existence of adequate feasibility studies and will require
monitoring of subproject impacts and outcomes. As in the case of PROCYMAF, the strategy is to
provide communities with the needed information to understand the environmental and biodiversity
values found in their resource base and to support training in the use of environmental standards applied
by the SEMARNAP regulatory bodies for evaluating sustainability of forest and landscape use.
Project preparation has included examination of the norms and standards that should be applied in the
case of sustainable use in the areas around conservation areas, and the off-take levels that can be
applied to conservation areas with multiple use status for hunting, medicinal plant collection, mushroom
collection, or related activities. In the case of ex-situ cultivation or reproduction of species which are
included in Mexican norms or the Biodiversity Convention as threatened or endangered, the project
would follow the standards developed in PROCYMAF for non-timber forest product enterprises in
which ex-situ reproduction would rely upon stock obtained from captivity, not from natural areas.
Project-supported natural resource uses would be chosen and monitored carefully to avoid over-harvesting
or other environmental risks. Specific protocols will be developed with inputs from knowledge specialists
and project experience will be compiled in an interactive Integrated Information System, known as SII. In
addition, biodiversity monitoring data generated through this project will be forwarded into the Clearing
House Mechanism (CHM) that the GoM is developing to provide decentralized access to biodiversity
conservation information.
The committees reviewing the proposals will contain environmental specialists (from SEMARNAP) who
will review the proposals for environmental criteria and there are standard TORs for many of the optional
proposals. In principle, as this is a private/corporate land management project, the incentive will not be
normative EAs, but information dissemination to communities who wish to be "certified" over the long-term
for their biodiversity sound management. Some of the communities in the project area have their
Smartwood certification consistent with Forestry Stewardship Council certification practices, and this
information will be available to other participating communities.
- 25 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
With respect to the Bank's Indigenous Peoples' Policy, O.D. 4.20, the entire project is regarded as an
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan since the majority of the project beneficiaries (80%) are indigenous
peoples. There have been extensive social assessments carried out in the three states as part of the
preparation of (i) PROCYMAF, (ii) the 1995 Resource Conservation and Forestry Development Sector
Review, (iii) preparation of the restructured PROCYMAF (for which there is a PHRD grant), (iv) the
indigenous peoples country profiles underway in Michoacan and Guerrero, and (v) the PDF Block A/B
social assessment for this project. A list of communities and ejidos in each priority biodiversity area has
been developed for all three states. This categorizes the communities by organizational sophistication,
technical skills and experience in forestry and conservation, and whether they have a government-approved
forest management plan. Criteria used to identify eligibility were: (a) high priority biodiversity areas of
sufficient size within community boundaries; (b) organizational capacity for conservation activities; (c)
communal statutes or interest in establishing communal statutes for conservation purposes; (d) on-going
projects or programs of communities for sustainable use or conservation activities; (e) community
experience with alternative livelihood activities that contribute to sustainable resource use; and (f)
participation in networks of communities for resource management purposes.
(See Annex 1 I for further information on the social assessment/participation strategy).
- 26 -



The following table references the ways in which the overall project design incorporates the
elements of a formal IPDP.
Element of the Strategy    Action                                  Reference in the PAD
Legal Framework (i) legal  Project based on community and ejido rights to Sector issues section (B.2)
status; (ii) access to legal   resources and use of communal statutes for    and
system; (iii) natural    exerting control. New Forestry Law passed in  Social Assessment (Annex
resource rights          1986 and revised in 1992 provides the legal    12).
framework for indigenous community and ejido
management of forests, based on a Forest
Management Plan requiring government
approval.
Constitution
Article 4: The Mexican nation has a
multicultural composition based on its original
inhabitants. The law protects the development
of indigenous languages, cultures, customs,
resources and specific forms of social
organization, and will guarantee its citizens
effective access to the state jursidiction. Legal
decisions and agrarian related processes that
are part of their special practices and legal
norms will be taken into account in terms
established by the law.
Article 27, section VIl, para 2: The law
protects the integrity of indigenous lands.
Baseline data            Social assessment includes detailed land tenure, Social summary (above)
physical location, relation to resource base, and and
social data.                              Social Assessment (Annex
11).
Land Tenure              Supports existing traditional land tenure  Annex 11 and project
embodied in the Agrarian Law, whereby the    description
National Property Registry (RAN) legally
registers customary statutes including land use
allocation and set-asides.
Strategy for Local       Project is demand-driven by communities and  Institutional arrangements
Participation            was developed based on the participatory  (C.4);
preparation activities funded by GEF grants   borrower commitment
and the extensive community participation in  (D.4);participatory
workshops and consultations. State and    approach (E.6.2)
national committees responsible for
implementing project and decision-making
regarding community subprojects are made up
of representatives of participating communities.
Funds will flow directly to decentralized state
committees.
- 27 -



,Technical Identification of  Subprojects identified by communities through  Background (B); project
Development Actions       project preparation. Preparation included   description (C); Eligibility
analysis of traditional land use and agricultural Criteria for Subprojects
practices, indigenous knowledge of resource   (Annex 12).
use, and adaptations of traditional systems by
target beneficiaries. The Monitoring and
Evaluation system includes participatory
monitoring indicators that will be measured
with beneficiary involvement during
implementation.
Institutional Capacity    Capacity assessment done of financial       Project description (C);
administrator and communities themselves;    Social Assessment (Annex
local capacity building in project's       I 1); Institutional
training/support activities.               Arrangements (Annex 14).
Implementation Schedule   Committees (which include communiity
representatives) have flexibility to plan
schedule.
Monitoring and Evaluation  Communities will be trained in the use and  Project description (C);
maintenance of biological monitoring data  Annex 2, component 3.
linked to Sll. Participatory self evaluations
built into project M&E.
Cost Estimates and        Financing of the subprojects relate to the  Logframe (Annex 1);
Financing Plan            institutional capacity (typology) of        procurement (Annex 6);
communities and are under the decision-making Eligibility Criteria for
,responsibility of of the state committees.  Subprojects (Annex 12).
- 28 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
This is a participatory project in which indigenous communities and ejidos are among the implementing
organizations and the main beneficiaries. There are mainly indigenous populations who are the target of
the project, including Purepechas, Mixtecos, Zapotecos, Chatinos, Chinantecos, Nahuatl, and Mazatecos.
A number of communities participate in second and third-tier indigenous organizations linked to forestry
resource management or marketing and policy interests, (e.g. San Juan Nuevo in Michoacan which is a lead
community for training of other communities in the southwestern region of Mexico; Ixtlan, Uzachi, and
Pueblos Mancomunados in Oaxaca, all of whom participate in regional fora and in horizontal training).
These have been consulted and will continue to be consulted during preparation, and some of these include
leader communities that will have additional responsibilities during implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
There are a variety of other stakeholders concemed with conservation in the area of the project. These
include: communities organizations in Guerrero, environmental NGOs, such as WWF-Oaxaca, PAIR,
SERBO in Oaxaca, academic NGOs involved in ecological and biodiversity studies, such as the Center of
Ecology of the Autonomous University of Mexico and Michoacan and the Oaxaca Forestry school, the
state environment and protected areas authorities in each state, and a variety of forest product buyers from
the private sector, both Mexican-based and exporters.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The entire project is structured around the ongoing participation and monitoring by the project beneficiaries
themselves, through state and national level coordinating committees, ongoing evaluations and local-level
decision making for sub-projects by participating communities and ejidos. There is a check and balance in
the composition of the committees, the national level and state level.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social risks are recognized in project design, and will be addressed through the participatory and
demand-driven structure of the project, along with the targeting of activities according to the capacity of
each participating community or ejido. To date, identified social risks have not been problematic in
PROCYMAF. No involuntary resettlement is expected under this project.
- 29 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      * Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project design has been developed in compliance with the applicable safeguard policies, so no
additional mechanisms will be necessary.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is based upon community-driven approaches to biodiversity conservation that would be
sustainable over time because it implements demand-driven activities and participating communities are
self-selecting. The project also is based on experience that training and capacity building has more
long-term impacts when the communities themselves are the catalysts to transfer knowledge and skills.
Leader communities will play a training role which can be sustained after project completion.
The project will test a number of institutional mechanisms for ensuring sustainability of the conservation
areas and clusters of contiguous areas, and also mechanisms to generate funds for conservation
activities through the sustainable use of biodiversity. The communal statutes are legal documents when
recorded in the National Property Registry (RAN) in accordance with Agrarian Law and the current
National Constitution. State law in Oaxaca also endorses the customary uses and practices of
communities as embodied in the communal statutes.
The sustainable use component will implement subprojects that can be certified for green marketing
purposes, thereby increasing the economic return and market scope of these activities for communities.
The diversification of sustainable use activities and strengthening of management planning should
provide access of communities to donor and foundation resources for conservation, as well as provide
long-term economic incentives to communities to preserve their resource and biodiversity values,
thereby promoting their continued investment in this conservation. Financial sustainability of
community conservation should be reasonable, since much of the investment required is in the form of
community labor, not cash, and this is input is consistent with long-standing, traditional indigenous
systems of labor exchange for community maintenance.
The project includes two mechanisms to guarantee the institutional and financial sustainability of the
- 30 -



community conservation initiatives. First it is expected that the state level committees and their
coordinating units will develop the capacity to be converted to civil associations or non-governmental
organizations by the end of the project. Technical assistance has been built in to the terms of reference
of the financial agent so that coordination units can develop this capacity. Second, the grant
reimbursement modality included in the community investments component enables communities to
endow permanent conservation funds. The Oaxaca fund has been created and similar funds are expected
to be established in Michoacan and Guerrero during the life of the project, which would channel state
and federal funds to conservation activities as well as build the financial credibility of communities for
relations with national and international donors involved in green funds and conservation issues both
within and outside of Mexico, thereby promoting long-term sustainability. Ongoing financing is not
expected to be a difficulty as long as communities have the capacity to present viable proposals.
- 31 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex I):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of adequate control measures for       M         Use participatory methods for identifying
verifying compliance with natural                     appropriate and operational measures for
resource norms in indigenous                          compliance with natural resource norms.
communities.
Lack of participation from communities      M         Regular stakeholder reviewer meetings as well
and government in natural resource                    as the need to assume ownership of project in
management.                                           order to begin implementation.
Lack of financial resources to initiate     M         Adequate allocation of funds to allow for
regional participatory planning and                   regional participatory planning and
development.                                          development.
Economy continues to create incentives to   M         Ensure that adequate economic information is
convert forest to other land uses.                    available in the context of long-term community
viability.
Government programs in other sectors        M         Steering committee members at state and federal
promote activities incompatible w/ project            level transmit concerns on development plans
goals (eg roads, energy, etc.                         and policies to GOM
Government provides inadequate budget       M         SEMARNAP and state governments confirm
resources for the project                             Ministry of Finance agreement with planned
categories of expenditure.
Lack of adequate level of community         M         Targeting of communities will include clear
organization to sustain conservation                  criteria on organizational level and training will
activities and inter-organizational                   be targeted to organizational capacity-building.
processes
From Components to Outputs
Lack of grassroots promoters with           M         Utilize promoters from the Community Forestry
experience in teaching and elaborating                Project to work with and train other promoters.
conservation plans.
Lack of systematization of communities'     M         Make project funds and resources available to
experiences as well as lack of a                      document indigenous communities' experiences
dissemination strategy.                               with NR management.
Many communities have not yet               S         Technical assistance will be provided to foster
developed By-laws for Community                       the development of community by-laws.
Natural Protected Areas.
Lack of mechanisms for coordination          S        Provide funds to facilitate coordination between
between national and state governments                regional governments and indigenous
and indigenous communities for                        communities; create multi-state steering
elaborating management plans.                         committee.
Technologies for biodiversity friendly      M         Disseminate through project viable models of
activities are not effective or do not                communities whose practices are exemplary of
provide a sufficient economic incentive to            sustainable natural resource use.
community members.
- 32 -



Lack of economic resources and              M         Provide ample resources and promote
willingness to share information,                     cooperative exchange of information.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1) Operational Manual issued.
2) National Coordinator and National Administrator hired.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Complementary financing continues to be available in PRODEFOR and PROCYMAF for the respective
implementation periods of these programs;
Due diligence by GOM, including assumption of responsibility for taxes incurred under the project;
Financial and performance monitoring and reporting, including audits and periodic progress and evaluation
reports;
SEMARNAP participates in the national and state-level committees.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
IX 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-33 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Au-gusta  olnar                    hn Redwood                        Olivier Lfourcade
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                     Country Manager
-34 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MEXICO: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
lierarcby d Or ctI                .    ix n, ito        Monlt*t & Evaluation    Cfddcal o            n s
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:          Sector! country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable natural resource   Land and other natural   Evaluation reports.         Stability of government
management.                 resources to balance                                     natural resource management
conservation, economic needs                            policies.
and development.
Poverty alleviation.        Increased income in marginal Baseline and socio-economic  Adequate targeting to local
rural areas.                studies.                    population and ejidos.
GEF Operational Program:
Support to protect montane    Establishment of conservation  Random samples of areas  Major perverse incentives do
ecosystems and forest       areas (both areas of strict  under conservation; project   not exist outside the sector to
ecosystems at the three levels  protection and sustainable use) monitoring reports on areas   induce communities to change
of ecosystems, species, and    of significant parts of the  established; self-evaluation by land use despite the program.
genes.                      Mexican forest ecosystems in  eligible communities.
communities in three states.
- 35 -



$r.rchy of iR     c          Es   l                   Monng  & Eauton              CrCtiaAssum        ns
Global Objective:          Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
To achieve more effective   1. 150,000 hectares under    I. Analysis of forest cover in  1. Communities interested in
biodiversity conservation in   community conservation in   aerial maps and satellite  conservation.
the states of Oaxaca,      different ecozones in the  imagery.
Michoacan, and Guerrero by  project area, and 150,000                             Communal statutes are
strengthening the capacity of  hectares of complementary    Registry of community  respected by government.
indigenous and ejido       area under sustainable use.   reserves.
communities to manage and                                                         No environmental disasters
protect their biological and    2. Seventy organizationally   2. Analysis of forest cover in  strike project area.
cultural resources based on    advanced communities   aerial maps and satellite
traditional values and     (Category 3 and 4) with active imagery.                2. Communities interested in
practices.                 conservation (and integrated                           setting aside significant areas
resource use) on communally  Registry of community    for conservation purposes.
owned land of high         reserves.
biodiversity in Oaxaca,
Guerrero and MichoacAn.    3. Project monitoring reports, 3. Installed organizational
community registries,      capacity of communities is
3. Number of incipient     evaluation workshops.      transferable to other
communities (Catgory I and                            communities.
2) with increased capacity and
willingness to engage in                               Communities interested in
conservation activities.                              engaging in conservation
4. Project monitoring reports  activities.
4. Institutional framework at  and consultations with state
state level to channel     and federal government.    4. Government commitment to
resources to communities for                           strategy over two federal
their conservation initiatives,                        administrations and at state
and to support                                        level.
inter-community networking
and collaboration on shared
conservation goals.
5. Positive market for     5. Project implementation   5. Markets for sustainable use
sustainable use products   monitoring and             products are favorable.
generated and income       socio-economic study
increased in communities in  compared to baseline.
high biodiversity areas
without environmental loss.   Dissemination of technical
notes on cost-benefit of
productive projects.
- 36 -



Key Perfonnance
,,arhy of Obletives              Indlcators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Citcal tt           as
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
(1) Community-driven      (1.1) Community-driven     Archives and minutes       Community and Government
framework developed in each  committees trained and  prepared by participating  participation in natural
state to channel conservation  operating in three states and  institutions; monitoring  resource management.
resources to participating  transferring knowledge and   reports.
communities.              resources to communities.
(2) Matching investments in  (2.1) Land use plans    Economic and biological    Adequate control measures for
land use planning and     developed in 300           evaluation reports;        verifying compliance of
organizational development,  communities.            participatory evaluation.  natural resource use norms in
followed by investments in                                                      communities.
community conservation areas (2.2) 150 incipient     Formal minutes of the
and adjoining landscapes.    communities develop     Community or Ejido         Communities overcome
conservation skills through    Assembly.             conflicts to form alliances.
capacity-building initiatives
led by more advanced                                 Training is adequate to
communities.                                         promote independent
operation.
(2.3) 70 community        Registry of community
conservation areas demarcated reserves.
and put under improved
protection.
(2.4) Establishment of    Formal minutes of national
sustainable practices and  committee; evaluation reports.
green ventures in 150,000
hectares of complementary
lands.                    Evaluation workshops and
project monitoring.
(3) Studies and information                                                     Technologies are appropriate
base generated to measure    (3) Implementation of Sll with                    to produce economically
biodiversity protected,   internet and local connections Registry of areas in the  attractive activities and
community capacity and    and access of information at  Integrated Information System markets are favorable to
viability of government/  community level.           (IIS) and National Registry.   activities.
NGO/community coordination
structure.                                                                      Government supports program
through administrative
(4) Institutionalization of                                                     transition.
community models and legal  (4) National oversight
framework at national level   operational and legal and                         Companion programs
community model frameworks                           (PROCYMAF and
incorporated into national                           PRODEFOR) provide
strategy.                                            complementary financing.
-37 -



Project Components 1      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
(I) Local Capacity Building   US $2.7 Million        Financial and audit reports;
National Registry; community
statutes.
(2) Community Conservation  (US $12.9 Million):      Monitoring reports;
and Sustainable Use       a) US$4.8 Million          self-evaluation;
Subprojects                                          participatory M&E reports
a) Land Use Planning for the                         from participating
Establishment of Biodiversity  b) US$1.7 Million     communities; economic and
Conservation Areas                                   biological evaluation reports;
b) Training and Capacity  c) US$4.6 Million          audits of community funds;
Building                                             field evaluation of community
c) Community Investments for                         conservation areas.
Conservation Areas and    d) US$1.8 Million
Sustainable Use
d) Community Green Capital
Funds
(3) Biological Monitoring and US$1.5 Million         Internet access accounts;
Evaluation                                           project and field monitoring
reports; self-evaluation.
(4) National Coordination  US$1.60 Million           Financial and audit reports.
- 38 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MEXICO: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.70 million
- GEF $1.70 million
Local Capacity Building
To facilitate coordination within and between participating communities, committees would be
established in each state, comprising government, NGO and community representatives. (Three
community or ejido representatives from the participating sub-regions, a representative of the
SEMARNAP state delegation, a representative of the relevant State Government, and representatives of
environmental NGOs or academic institutions would constitute each State Committee.) The State
Committees would be responsible for decision-making and oversight of state-level activities, including
the selection of conservation areas to be supported and the activities to be financed in each state. Each
Committee would develop its own set of guidelines defining the criteria to be used when deciding which
community proposals to fund. Each State Committee would also select a State Coordinator and
Administrator to support their task of eliciting, reviewing, selecting and evaluating community and ejido
project proposals. Each Coordinator would promote the project in the state, elicit and review proposals
before submitting them to the Committee, oversee monitoring and evaluation and financial reporting,
and prepare the state annual budget proposal and the quarterly reports to be submitted to the National
Coordinator (see Component 4). Over time, the State Committees would be expected to evolve as
independent entities capable of sustaining conservation activities in the state beyond the life of the
project, and serving the needs of those communities that are not sufficiently advanced to cover their own
conservation investment needs or directly seek resources from external sources. During the project, the
State committees and coordination units might be established as civil associations at state level to
provide them legitimacy for the channelling of resources, although channeling of funds will be on the
basis of NAFIN's authority, as financial administrator.
This component would also finance the costs of the Project Coordinating Units, which would
transfer knowledge and experience during project implementation both to participating communities and
to the State Committees on fund-raising, investment practices and grant management. Activities to be
financed under this component would include coordinating unit consultant fees, funds for technical
assistance to communities and ejidos, training of the coordinating unit in financial and technical
monitoring, operational expenses, and costs of regional and consultation meetings.
Project Component 2 - US$12.90 million
- GEF $4.58 million
Community Conservation and Sustainable Use Sub-proiects
The project would channel grant resources to communities to finance a progressive series of
community conservation and sustainable use subprojects tailored to the level of organization and
willingness of participating communities to undertake long-term conservation (see Annex 12). Incipient
communities with interest in conservation activities but limited organizational skills and insufficient
experience with conservation investment (Category 1) would be eligible for grants to help finance land
use planning, community conservation action plans, diagnostic studies and inventories, and training
- 39 -



events that build their capacity for conservation; The more advanced and experienced communities
(Categories 2-4) would be eligible for grants to help finance activities that assist them to actively
manage and protect areas designated for conservation, including fire control, demarcation, delimitation,
or restoration, and activities that promote sustainable use in adjacent resource areas which generates
income while reducing pressure on conservation areas. As a member of the state committees and in its
role as enforcer of the 1992 Forest Law, SEMARNAP would ensure that environmental standards are
applied to proposals under review. Grants would be given directly to communities. In some cases,
communities would provide their own labor and technical assistance; in others, the community would
contract private service providers or purchase small goods and services. There are four types of
activities (Types A-D) which would be eligible for grant allocation, each with a different community
counterpart requirement, and each with progressively larger grant sizes:
Type A: Land Use Planning for the Establishment of Biodiversity Conservation Areas (Total:
$4.8 million: GEF: $1.7 million)
Type A activities include workshops, participatory rural appraisals, land use planning,
mapping, inventories of existing biodiversity resources, and delimitation of conservation areas,
including preparation of by-laws or communal statutes (where appropriate) for the creation of
permanent conservation areas. Grant amounts for these activities would range in size from
$5,000 to $15,000, and counterpart contribution would be at least 10% of total costs, presented
as in kind contributions of local labor, travel, participation in workshops and evaluations, and
community meetings. For pine-oak forest areas, PROCYMAF would be the lead financier,
while GEF funds would be targeted to all other forest types. While all communities (Categories
1-4) would be eligible for Type A grants, Category 3 and 4 communities would not require
Type A assistance before proceeding to Type C and D activities.
Trpe B: Training and Capacity-Building. including Horizontal Exchanges (Total: $1.7 million;
GEF: 0.6 million)
This component would finance two types of activities necessary for communities to develop the
information base and institutional framework to establish conservation areas. Type B activities
include capacity-building for conservation activities, including training for communities
provided by third parties and by more advanced communities to less advanced ones, and
strengthening of community networks and feasibility studies. Proposals can be made by
individual communities or networks of communities, with grants in the order of $2,000 to
$8,000 per community with a matching contribution of at least 20%. For pine-oak forest areas,
PROCYMAF would be the lead financier, while GEF funds would be targeted to all other forest
types. While all communities (Categories 1-4) would be eligible for Type B grants, Category 3
and 4 communities would not require Type B assistance before proceeding to Type C and D
activities.
Type C: Community Investments for Conservation Areas and Sustainable Use (Total: $4.6
million; GEF: $1.65 million)
This component would finance investment in conservation areas or in complementary
sustainable uses of biodiversity, including investments to protect or improve the administration
of conservation areas, as well as investments (and feasibility studies) for productive activities
that generate sustainable alternatives for communities. The potential scope of activities could
include forest certification studies, market studies, seed capital for eco-tourism projects, water
-40 -



bottling plants, nature paths, guide training, mushroom cultivation, resin collection, carbon
sequestration and other non-timber forest product enterprises. Investments for protection could
include guard towers, identification markers, fencing, fire control mechanisms and rehabilitation
of forest fringes. All Type C proposals would be based on a matching formula to apply the
incremental cost principle, with a community counterpart of at least 25% for sustainable use
projects and at least 20% for conservation activities, and would range in size from $15,000 to
$20,000. PROCYMAF would be the lead financier for pilot scale non-timber forest product
based investments and both PROCYMAF and PRODEFOR for technical assistance/study
components of these investments in eligible forest types. Only Category 3 and 4 communities
are eligible to participate in Type C activities.
Type D: Community Green Venture Funds (Total: $1.8 million; GEF: $0.63 million)
Category 4 communities that have developed the capacity to invest in more substantial projects
of sustainable use and which have a longer-term commitment to conservation of their permanent
areas would become eligible for a fourth type of grant investment, which would be a payment
into a revolving fund established at the community level as a separate conservation account (see
Annex 15). Under this latter modality, communities that are ready to create a permanent fund
for continued financing of sustainable use activities and conservation areas would be eligible for
a larger size grant and would agree to reimburse both the amount of the grant and their own
matching investment into a community account specifically established for conservation
investments. This financing modality would be accessed on a voluntary, self-selecting basis, and
would be targeted to the more advanced communities (Category 4) which have reached a point
of recognizing the value of long-term conservation initiatives and are willing and able to
dedicate resources to this purpose. The scheme would provide a learning experience to the
community which should make them eligible for future support from other local and
international conservation donors or from green venture capital sources. The size of this grant is
expected to be between $20,000 and $50,000, with at least an equivalent amount of community
counterpart. Only GEF funding would be channeled to this component. Specific technical
assistance would also be provided to those communities that agree to establish permanent
revolving funds for conservation-related investments to help them establish the rules of such
funds and transfer best practices on accounting and management practices.
The background study completed under the Block B will establish the basic database for setting
priorities and refining high priority areas selected for conservation. This information will be placed in the
database established under the Biological Monitoring and Evaluation component (Component 3).
Communities will draw upon this basic information for the preparation of management plans and
complement this with additional operational information and community consensus-building consultations
to identify areas to be set aside for complementary land-use. To the extent that there is interest,
management plans for specific conservation areas in particular communities would take into account
similar initiatives in adjacent communities within the same region.
The basic principles to be used in the identification of areas and elaboration of management plans
would be a highly participatory process analyzing potential areas on the basic of both socio-economic and
biophysical data and taking a landscape/land-use approach to conservation and sustainable use. WWF is
involved in a complementary set of studies identifying priority pine-oak, cloud forest, and tropical dry
forests along the entire Pacific coast of Mexico to help GoM address the issue of current
under-representation of this ecological zone in conservation areas. WWF and the communities
participating in the Block A have developed solid models for participation of community members in the
- 41 -



identification of potential conservation areas and possible land use practices. These would be used in
addition to the data generated by the Block B study to inform management plans, complement the
predictive data base, and help to identify priority areas and clusters of areas both within the project zone
and in areas for future replication.
In communities in which areas for conservation have been identified, this component would finance
activities for the establishment and delimitation of permanent conservation areas, including preparation of
by-laws or communal statutes (where appropriate). Depending on the number of proposals submitted for
financing, selection criteria would include the respective financial needs of the communities to balance
investment between more and less active communities. More active communities are expected to contribute
a greater portion of the total investment costs and to provide more of their own technical assistance from
professionals residing in their own communities.
Some activities financed by this component include capacity-building for conservation activities
and training for communities and community networks. This includes training for the development of
community-based human resources, such as legal, financial, technical, administrative, institutional and
entrepreneurial capacity. Some training activities would be directly contracted and developed by the state
and regional coordinating committees and delivered by universities, NGOs, and other non-governmental
or governmental institutions. However, the bulk of the training activities will be designed and
implemented by the communities themselves in order to promote stronger community organization for
natural resource decision-making. In such cases, the communities would present the activities as
subproject proposals.
Another aspect of training would consist of activities to foster alliances and networks among
participating communities and to disseminate experiences and lessons learned throughout the project
area. This would include study tours within Mexico. This includes studies and applied research to
promote the creation of clusters of conservation areas in contiguous lands of various communities.
Adaptation of traditional agricultural practices would be promoted where fitting eligibility
criteria, fostering systems that provide alternatives to current slash and burn rotational agriculture
practices. Sustainable hunting would also be promoted, so that communities can integrate harvesting of
subsistence plant and animal products with landscape management and conservation. The feasibility
studies of sustainable use projects would address the impact of harvesting and off-take activities on the
resource base and biodiversity, and would include activities to monitor biodiversity trends.
This component would also support development of the legal and institutional framework for
environmental services produced on community lands, such as water and carbon sequestration; this could
include feasibility studies for particular communities. The component would expand on some of the
current certification initiatives underway through NGO or donor support complementing such initiatives
in the planned private lands GEF (MSP).
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.50 million
- GEF $0.42 million
Biological Monitoring and Evaluation
Project implementation monitoring would be carried out throughout the project implementation
period to follow both physical execution as well as biodiversity changes over time. An important aspect of
this component would be generating the needed information to assess the viability of the biodiversity
- 42 -



conservation areas being established. Participatory evaluation studies would be designed and carried out to
document social organizational processes and issues. An important aspect of this component would be
generating the information to assess viability of the biodiversity conservation areas being established and to
monitor biodiversity changes over time. To accomplish this, an Integrated Information System (Sll) would
be established - an interactive and dynamic geo-referenced data base that will include information about
biodiversity in the priority areas, predicted species distribution, relationship of biodiversity within clusters
of community areas, and movement of species among areas. This would be overlaid with the
socio-economic information which provides the criteria for selection of eligible communities. The database
would be made accessible to communities, particularly leader communities, so that the information can be
added to by community members and so that communities can make increasingly independent decisions
about conservation choices. The Sll would also be linked to the National Forestry Information System
(SNIF) that has been established by SEMARNAP under the PROCYMAF project. In addition, all
biodiversity monitoring data generated through this project will be forwarded into the Clearing House
Mechanism (CHM) that the GOM is developing to provide decentralized access to biodiversity
conservation information.
Project Component 4 - US$1.60 million
- GEF $0.80 million
National Coordination
To ensure that activities in the three states are linked, a National Committee would be established
for the project as a whole, with representatives of the three state-level committees, PROCYMAF
(SEMARNAP), the National Council for Natural Protected Areas (CONANP), the National Biodiversity
Institute (CONABIO), the National Forestry Advisory Group (CONAF). Non-voting invitees to committee
meetings would include state coordinators, PROCYMAF, PRODEFOR, the financial agent, environmental
NGOs, and academic institutions. The financial administrator in coordination with SEMARNAP would be
in charge of selecting, supervising and evaluating a national coordinator and an administrator who would
be responsible for overseeing the project as a whole, coordinating activities in the three states, and reporting
to the World Bank and GOM.
This component would finance the costs of the national coordination unit, the national oversight
committee, the supervision and monitoring activities, establishment of the legal and conceptual framework
for community conservation as a valid protected areas model, and reporting to the Government and GEF
implementing agency.
For evaluating project design, two in-depth reviews would be carried out, one in the second year
and one in the fourth year, to look at the appropriateness of project implementation arrangements and
design including: (a) project scope; (b) selection criteria for communities, particularly to ensure that
communities most in need of resources are selected if there is over demand for project funds; (c)
responsibilities of the state and regional committees and role of communities in project decision-making;
and (d) viability of biodiversity clusters and alliances across communities.
NAFIN would be responsible for compiling information collected at the state level, providing
monitoring and evaluation reports, coordinating studies requested by the National Committee and
supervising mid-term reviews and periodic performance evaluations.
Participatory evaluation studies would be designed and carried out to document social
organizational processes. It is expected that lead communities will take a significant role in participatory
-43-



monitoring and evaluation, maintaining monitoring information for communities in their region and helping
to identify indicators for measuring performance and impacts.
Lastly, this component would also include activities to document the lessons from the project and
to disseminate the experience to other parts of Mexico and the Latin American region, allowing
cross-fertilization of experiences with innovative programs elsewhere in Latin America (e.g., Argentina,
Peru, Bolivia, Brazil, Central America, Colombia, etc.) Some activities would be in the form of
dissemination notes and study tours involving participating communities outside of Mexico to foster
exchanges on community conservation-based experiences.
-44 -



Table 1. Activities to be Financed
COINBIO              PROCYMAF                PRODEFOR
Pine-Oak    Other    Pine-Oak    Other    Pine-Oak         Other
Forests                Forests                Forests
Type A
ERPs                                      x           x
Workshops                                 x           x
Land use plans                            x           x
Inventories                               x           x                     x           x
Areas set aside               x           x           x                     x           x
Delimitation of areas         x           x           x
Resource management                                   x                     x           x
plans                                                                  .
Conservation plans                                    x                     x           x
TA to develop community                   x           x
statutes
Type B
Training                                              x          x           x          x
Community to community                                x          x
seminars
Study tours                                           x          x
Creation of networks                                  x          x
Type C
Sustainable-use projects      x           x           x          x
Eco-tourism                   x           x           x          x
Fire control investment
projects                      x           x                                  X          X
Certification studies                     x           x
Business plans                            x           x
Eco-tourism feasibility
studies
Market research                           x           x
Development of carbon                     x           x
sequestration deals   _ _
Start-up capital              x           x           x          x
Investments for non-timber
forest enterprises
Type D
Community trust funds to
finance conservation and                  x
sustainable use activities            _                                            I
- 45 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MEXICO: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
Table 1. Detailed Project Costs
Component                                          Unit                    Unit Cost          otal
1. Local Capacity Building
Implementation Units
State Coordination Units            Staff per yr/state                  50,00(                1,000,000
Procedures Manual                   Consultancy                          10,00(                  40,000
Software/Vehicle                     Equipment                          22000                    66,000
Operational Costs                                  Year                                22,000                 462,00
Publications                                                                            5,00(                 115,000
Evaluation Studies                                                                      3,000                 120,00(
Proposal Peer Reviewers                            Per state(year                       2,000                  48,00
Promotional consultants                            Consultancy                          4,000                  84,00(
Community to community                             Course                               6.00                  750,000I
I StJBTOTAL                                                                                      2,685,001
2. Community Conservation and Sustainable Use
Subprojects
Type A: Land Use Plans
Land Use Plans                      Study                               15,000                2,490,000
Participatory Appraisals                                                                      1,000,000
Delimitation and Inventory                                                                     400,000
Legal Framework                                                                                 400,000
Type B: Training for the Establishment of Conservation
Areas
Training                            Course/materials                     2,050                1,400,000
Fora/exchanges/study tours among    Transportation/                        30                   210,000
______________  communities         Materials                          _
Type C: Community Investments for Conservation
Activities
Demarcation/area identification     Per Km                                 20(                1,600,000
Infrastructure                       Equipment/                           3,000                 480,000
Expertise
Sustainable Use Investments
Feasibility studies                 Consultancies                                               520,600
Pilot Projects                      Project                                   _               3,929,000
Technical Audits                    Consultancies                                               470,400
Type D: Green Venture Capital Matching Investments
I SUBTOTAL                                                                                      12,900,000
3. Monitoring and Evaluation
Integrated Biodiversity database                                                                              920,000
Training of Community Users                        Course                                                     445,000
Software Workstations for Communities              Workstation                          8,00                  136,000
SUBTOTAL                                                                  ,1,501,00
4. National Coordination
National Coordination Unit                         per year                            40,00(                 280,000
Project Management System                                                              40,00(                 320,000
Dissemination of Lessons Learned                                                       30,00(                 390,000
Technical Assistance to Coord. Units               per year                            62,00(                 434,000
Office Supplies/Equipment                                                              10,00                  190,000
o SUBTOTAL                                                   ____________                     1,614 000
TOTAL                                                                                    _18,700 00
-46 -



Annex 4
MEXICO: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
INCREMENTAL COST AND GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
Overview
1.     The objective of the project is to strengthen or promote community conservation initiatives on
communally owned lands in areas of high biodiversity in a priority set of ecological zones in the states of
Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero, building on the positive cultural values and traditional management
practices that these communities have developed over a long period in relationship to the resources in these
ecological zones. Project objectives would be achieved by: (a) supporting the on-going efforts of
indigenous communities and ejidos to establish permanent conservation areas, and establishing cooperative
networks linking communities with significant conservation areas within a larger region of high
biodiversity; (b) building capacity for community conservation and sustainable natural resource
management among communities in areas of high biodiversity but with weak organizations and a poor
economic base; and (c) supporting the creation of state and regional institutions that can promote and help
finance community conservation initiatives over the medium to long-term with strong ownership by the
communities themselves. The GEF alternative intends to achieve these outputs at a total incremental cost of
approximately US$7.5 million.
Context and Broad Development Goals
2.     As one of the most biologically diverse of all Mexican states, Oaxaca is internationally recognized
to be of exceptional importance for biodiversity conservation. Within Oaxaca, the Sierra Juarez stands out
as an especially high conservation priority. The World Bank-World Wildlife Fund Conservation of the
Terrestrial Ecoregions of Latin America and the Caribbean (1995) assigns a "Highest" conservation
priority rating to two of the four Sierra Juarez ecoregions (Mexican Transvolcanic Pine-Oak Forests and
Balsas Dry Forests); the Sierra's other two ecoregions (Tehuantepec Moist Forests and Oaxacan Dry
Forests) receive a "High" rating. Among many animal and plant species endemic to the Sierra Juarez are
the endangered Dwarf Jay Cyanolyca nana, the cloud forest tree Oremunia mexicana, and several showy
butterfly species, including the threatened Papilio esperanza. The Sierra Juarez is also notable as perhaps
the largest remaining extent of mid-montane cloud forest in Mexico, with an unbroken forest corridor
extending from the high ridges (3,200 m) all the way to the Gulf lowlands (200 m). Besides the Sierra
Juarez, the project also proposes to work with indigenous communities located in the Chinantla and Costa
regions of Oaxaca. The Chinantla region includes a diverse set of ecosystems, including moist forest on
karst limestone hills, which harbors highly localized endemic species such as the globally threatened
Sumichrast's Wren (Hylorchilus sumichrasti). The Costa region encompasses the coastal Sierra de
Miahuatlan, which also supports species found nowhere else and encompasses the Oaxacan Moist Forests
ecoregion (rated "Highest" as a conservation priority).
3.    The proposed project areas in the states of Michoacan and Guerrero are also globally significant
for biodiversity conservation. For example, in Michoacan, the Meseta Purepeche (Tancitaro) area contains
an important sample of the Mexican Transvolcanic Pine-Oak Forests ("Highest" priority) Ecoregion. In
Guerrero, the Sierra Madre del Sur (also known as Sierra de Atoyac) encompasses a substantial portion of
the ("Highest" priority) Sierra Madre del Sur Pine-Oak Forests Ecoregion. It is also recognized as an
Endemic Bird Area by Birdlife International due to its concentration of range-restricted birds, including the
Short-crested Coquette (Lophornis brachylopha), a hummingbird found only in this mountain range.
- 47 -



4.    In Mexico, deforestation and land degradation due to population growth, past agricultural policies,
expansion of the agricultural frontier, over-exploitation, poorly regulated tourism, accelerated economic
development, and arbitrary settlement policies are having a serious impact on terrestrial biodiversity. Up
until 1986, the incentives for sustainable forest and natural resource conservation were perverse.
Commercial wood extraction relied upon a system of industrial concessions or inefficient parastatals that
had no incentives for long-term sustainability or diversification and that were not responsive to the needs or
interests of indigenous communities or ejidos, despite their legal ownership of much of the country's forest
lands as a result of land reform. Past agricultural policies fostered clearing of forests for subsistence and
commercial agriculture or cattle-rearing, and private land tenure was linked to forest clearing. Large-scale
cultivation of illegal drugs began to proliferate in remote forested areas in the 1 960s as a response to acute
poverty, and continues to create social conflict and local violence in some areas.
5.     The broad development goals of Mexico focus on: enhancing social sustainability; promoting
macro-economic stability with sustainable growth; and fostering effective public governance. The
government of Mexico has taken important steps towards improved environmental management in recent
years, and with World Bank assistance, has carried out a range of programs for biodiversity conservation
and sustainable natural resource management with the aim of balancing environmental values with societal
interests and needs. In particular, SEMARNAP has promoted a set of programs to foster sustainable land
use, as a complement to the strategy to develop a national system of protected areas (SINAP). In keeping
with the country's strategic shift towards increased decentralization of environmental management to states
and municipalities and the objective of increased public participation, SEMARNAP's programs emphasize
local responsibility and participation.
Baseline Scenario
6.     Following an encouraging recovery from its 1995 banking crisis, Mexico's economy has been
negatively affected by the simultaneous collapse in international oil prices and turmoil in global financial
markets. Through a combination of conservative fiscal policy, monetary tightening, and a flexible
exchange rate regime, however, the country has fared relatively well thus far compared with the rest of
Latin America. Mexico responded to the global crisis with three consecutive fiscal adjustments during
1998. Monetary policy was tightened on several occasions during the year. Although the exchange rate
depreciated substantially and inflation for the whole of 1998 may turn out to be higher than previously
anticipated (18.6 percent p.a.), output still grew by 4.8 percent over the same year, with a balance of
payments current account deficit of 3.9 percent of GDP. In rural areas, two thirds of the rural population
in the southern states is considered poor (compared to one-third nation wide). Four out of every five
indigenous people - who, as a group, account for a third of Mexico's poor-are considered poor.
However, the environmental cost of economic growth has been high (estimated at 10 percent of the country'
s GDP); to address problems related to environmental degradation, the Government of Mexico is
implementing a number of programs to improve environmental management, investing in both urban and
rural areas to address national and international priorities.
7.     Through SEMARNAP and state and municipal governments, the Government of Mexico is
mobilizing a variety of resources directed toward natural resource management, forest development and
protection, biodiversity conservation, and capacity building and public awareness. Over the next seven
years, it is expected that the sum of activities related to natural resource management and biodiversity
conservation is approximately US$15 million.
8.    In addition, the World Bank is supporting a variety of biodiversity conservation and natural
-48 -



resource management projects including: (1) Environmental Management and Decentralization; and (2)
Community Forestry (PROCYMAF). Complementary GEF biodiversity investments include: (1) The
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor Project; (2) Private Lands Conservation Mechanisms; (3) El Triunfo
Biodiversity Conservation Project; and (4) The Protected Areas Conservation Program. UNDP is
supporting several biodiversity programs and the PRODERS, an integrated model of sustainable
development.
9.     There are a number of NGO supported initiatives for community forest management and local
conservation including: (1) the WWF Oaxaca Community Reserves Program; (2) WWF-Mexico support
for Dry Tropical Forests; and (3) the Quintana Roo Forestry Conservation and Management Initiative in
the Yucatan.
10.    Costs. Total expenditure under the Baseline Scenario are estimated at US$21.2 million.
11.   Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in the generation of the following
domestic benefits: (a) empowerment of communities to better manage forest resources, (b) maintenance of
forest cover, (c) sustained production of environmental products and services in the long-term, (d) incipient
development of non-timber forest products by some communities and diversification of rural income
generating activities in poor areas of Mexico, and (e) development of knowledge conceming community
forest management for community and environmental agency decision making. The following global
benefits will also be generated: (a) maintenance of habitats that are important to conserve biodiversity of
global significance, but on insufficient temporal and spatial scales, and (b) some incentives for long-term
habitat maintenance.
Global Environmental Objective
12.   The planned forest management and development activities in community lands will improve the
quality of the forest resource base and provide increased opportunities to communities to generate income
from forests without resorting to clearing or degradation for agriculture or other uses. However, in the
absence of additional resource communities will not have the capacity or incentives to keep those areas
within their territory that are of high priority for biodiversity under adequate protection for their long-term
conservation nor will they have the knowledge or access to sustainable use activities that enhance
biodiversity in adjacent landscapes.
13.   Scope. The GEF alternative will provide capacity building and investment resources to enable
communities to identify areas of high priority biodiversity within their territories and develop land use plans
for their protection and sustainable use. It will foster increased organizational capacity for conservation
within individual communities and complement forest management activities by fostering alliances among
clusters of communities with contiguous areas of high priority biodiversity. In addition, it will provide
resources for piloting income generating activities in adjacent areas and disseminating knowledge of these
experiences throughout the project area.
14.    Costs. The total costs of the GEF alternative is estimated at US$28.7 million, detailed as follows:
(i) local capacity building - US$2.7 million (GEF financing US$1.7 million); (ii) community conservation
and sustainable use subprojects (land use planning, training for the establishment of conservation areas,
community investments for conservation activities, and sustainable use) - US$12.9 million (GEF financing
US$4.58 million); (iii) biological monitoring and evaluation - US$1.5 million (GEF financing US$0.42
million); and (iv) national coordination - US$1.6 million (GEF financing US$0.80 million).
-49 -



15.    Benefits. Implementation of the GEF alternative would create community conservation areas in a
region of high priority biodiversity and allow for replication of this community driven model. Global
benefits generated from the project would include: increased public awareness of issues related to
biodiversity conservation and meaningful participation of local stakeholders for sustainable community
conservation; establishment of corridors and sustainable management of critical habitats; empowerment of
communities to manage protected areas and formn collaborative agreements with other communities;
demarcation and conservation of critical forest ecosystems and enhancing the probability of achieving
long-term conservation; incentives for communities to maintain conservation areas and complementary
areas of sustainable use; increased collection and analysis of information vital for conserving endemic flora
and fauna; development of methodologies and best practices for integrated socioeconomic and bio-physical
information bases on high priority biodiversity resources in community lands.
Incremental Costs
16.    The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario (US$21.2 million) and the cost of the
GEF Alternative (US$28.7 million) is estimated at US$7.5 million. This represents the incremental cost for
achieving global environmental benefits from biodiversity conservation through the establishment and
sustainable use and management of protected areas within extensive indigenous community and ejido
landholdings in the biodiversity-rich states of Oaxaca, Guerrero, and Michoacan.
- 50 -



Incremental Cost Matrix
Component          Cost      US$            Domestic Benefit                   Global Benefit
Category    Mn
Forest Management Baseline      10.0   Maintenance of forest cover and
and Development                        habitats in the short-term.
Empowerment of communities to
better manage forest resources.
With GEF     10.0                                     Maintenance of habitats that are
Alternative                                           important to conserve biodiversity of
global significance
Incremental   0.0
1. Local Capacity    Baseline   3.0   Incipient level of enhanced capacity
Building                              for sustainable community forestry at
level of communities, private
_________________          providers and government agencies.
With GEF    4.7                                       Increased public awareness of issues
Alternative                                           related to biodiversity conservation
and participatory schemes for
sustainable natural resource
management.
Meaningful participation of local
stakeholders and participatory
schemes for sustainable community
conservation.
Incremental   1 .7
2. Community      Baseline      6.12   Maintenance of forest cover and
Conservation and                       habitats to conserve biodiversity of
Sustainable Use                        global significance.
Subprojects
a) Land Use                            Sustained production of environmental
Planning                               products and services in the long-term.
b) Training for the
Establishment of                       Incipient development of non-timber
Conservation Areas                     forest products by some communities.
c) Community                           Diversification of rural income
Investments for                        generating activities in poor areas of
Conservation                           Mexico.
Activities
d) Sustainable Use
-51 -



With GEF     10.7                                    Establishment of conservation areas
Alternative                                          and long-term sustainable
management of critical habitats.
Demarcation and conservation of
critical forest ecosystems and
enhancing probability of achieving
long-term conservation.
Empowerment of communities to
manage protected areas and form
collaborative agreements with other
communities.
Established incentives for
communities to maintain conservation
areas and pursue complementary
_________________                sustainable use in the long-term.
Incremental   4.58
3. Biological     Baseline      1.08   Develop knowledge concerning
Monitoring and                        community forest management for
Evaluation                            community and environmental agency
decision making.
With GEF     1.5                                     Increased collection and analysis of
Alternative                                          information vital for conserving
endemic flora and fauna.
Development of methodologies and
best practices for integrated
socioeconomic and bio-physical
information bases on high priority
biodiversity resources in community
lands.
Incremental   0.42
4. National       Baseline      1.0   Effective management of forestry
Coordination                          conservation activities.
With GEF     1.80                                    Dissemination of conservation
Alternative                                          strategies and lessons learned to other
indigenous groups and communities
throughout Latin America.
Incremental   0.80
Totals            Baseline     21.2
With GEF    28.7
Alternative
Increment   7.5
- 52 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MEXICO: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
Years Ending
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5      Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs              1.7        2.0         2.0         2.9         2.9        2.9        0.8
Recurrent Costs               0.3         0.6         0.6         0.6        0.6         0.6        0.2
Total Project Costs             2.0         2.6        2.6         3.5         3.5         3.5       1.0
Total Financing                 2.0         2.6        2.6         3.5         3.5        3.5         1.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                     0.8         1.0         1.0         1.4        1.4        1.4         0.5
Government                   0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7        0.7        0.7         0.1
Central                   0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                0.5         0.7         0.7         0.8        0.8        0.8         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.2         0.3         0.3         0.6        0.6        0.6         0.4
Others                       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing        2.0         2.6        2.6         3.5         3.5        3.5         1.0
Main assumptions:
Please note "IBRD/IDA" above refers to GEF financing. "Co-financiers" refers to IBRD commitments under
PROCYMAF.
- 53 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MEXICO: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
Procurement
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Procurement of goods financed by the Grant- - shall be carried out in accordance with Bank's Guidelines:
"Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999.
The executing agency will be the National Development Bank (Nacional Financiera-NAFIN). NAFIN is
one of the three financial intermediary institutions of the Mexican Government. In the latter role, NAFIN is
responsible for reviewing all procurement activities of Bank-financed projects where they are the financial
intermediary.
NAFIN will implement the Grant through its Multilateral Financing Unit. As this Unit is not experienced in
procurement, it was agreed that NAFIN's Unit of Special Financing (SFU), which has supervised many
procurement activities, be in charge of the procurement under this Grant. About 70% of the procurement
activities financed by the Bank in Mexico have been screened by SFU before the Bank's reviews; SFU also
gives its "no objection" to these activities below the threshold for Bank prior review.
The first component of the proposed Grant (US$2.7 million) will finance operating costs and training in
financial and technical monitoring. The second component (US$12.9 million) will finance sub-projects
procured by the community; in some cases the community will provide own labor. The third (US$1.5
million) and fourth (US$1.6 million) components of the project will finance operating costs and
non-consultant services. Because of the size of the project and the scattered locations of the communities,
no foreign suppliers are expected to participate, and no ICB procedures will apply to procure goods and
civil works under the Grant.
Goods estimated to cost more than US$100,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines using Standard Bidding Documents
satisfactory to the Bank. Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract up to an aggregated
amount of US$200,000 may be procured through National Shopping in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Grants for Community Subproiects
Grants would finance sustainable pilot subprojects proposed by the communities to preserve their
biodiversity values. Subprojects will be prepared and executed by the communities themselves. The
communities will do the contracting of services and procurement of goods and works. Less advanced
communities will be assisted in managing preparation and execution of subprojects. The contracts are
expected to be very small - the limit of individual grants is set at US$50,000. Beneficiaries would be
legally constituted community organizations eligible under criteria outlined in the Operational Manual.
Standard grant agreements acceptable to the Bank and included in the Manual would be used to transfer
grant funds to the beneficiaries under conditions that would ensure adequate implementation.
Procurement of goods and works under the subprojects would follow community participation practices
- 54 -



which may include direct contracting, national shopping for goods, and price comparisons for small works.
There will be four types of Grants, namely: (a) to finance technical assistance for land-use plans,
participatory workshops, biodiversity inventories, activities to support creation of permanent conservation
areas, and mapping services; (b) training activities to the communities and community networks; (c) a
range of investment projects aimed at maintenance and improved forest management, studies related to
green label certification, market studies, mushroom cultivation, eco-tourism, fire gaps, etc.; and (d) for
more advanced communities, provision of capital to create community revolving funds to finance
sustainable conservation subprojects.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Prior review by the Bank would be required only with respect to the first contract procured through
shopping procedures (other than under community subproject grants).
Section II: Employment of Consultants
Consultants shall be employed in accordance with the Guidelines, Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January
1999.
SEMARNAP will put together and maintain a roster of service providers which would include local NGOs,
more advanced communities, private firms and individual consultants from which technical assistance
would be contracted. The roster would be updated periodically (annually) by the Coordination Unit,
through publications; only those qualified will be included. The Manual will also contain specific
directives to guide the communities in the selection of consultants.
Part B: Quality-Cost Based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3 of Appendix I thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof
applicable to quality-and-cost-based selection of consultants.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants, estimated to cost
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
External auditors may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, used as part of the implementation of
Community Subprojects, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines (in the case of the consultants rendering said services, the consultants
- 55 -



may, but need not, be selected from a consultant roster established and periodically updated by
SEMARNAP for Project purposes, with criteria for roster membership that are: (a) published in UMS's
Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n (Official Gazette); and (b) satisfactory to the Bank).
Services by individual consultants shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Contracts for consultants firms estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more and individual
consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or more shall be subject to prior review by the Bank
following the provisions set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Appendix I of the Guidelines. Contracts
below these threshold shall require Bank's prior approval of the Terms of Reference.
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph I of this Part, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 4 of the Appendix 1 shall apply.
Section III: Operating Costs
The Grant will finance operational costs such as operation, office equipment, insurance for equipment
procured under the project, office materials and utilities and communication expenditures required for the
implementation of the project.
Section IV: Procurement Monitoring
SFU together with the Multilateral Financing Unit will prepare annually a Procurement Plan satisfactory to
the Bank and establish procedures for monitoring project execution and impact, procurement
implementation, including monitoring of contracts. The SFU will maintain detailed records of procurement
activities financed under the Grant.
Action Plan
An assessment of the procurement capacity of NAFIN was carried out and the following measures were
agreed upon:
a)     NAFIN has prepared both the general procurement plan for the project
and the detailed procurement plan for the first year of project
implementation.
b)     By Grant Effectiveness, NAFIN shall prepare an Operational Manual
specifying procedures and requirements on, among other areas,
procurement, contracting of consultants, contract monitoring and
controls, and accounting-financial procedures.
c)     By Grant Signing, NAFIN shall review its staffing needs taking into
account its new role in project implementation.
d)     If new staff is required, NAFIN shall carry out a procurement workshop
for the additional staff.
- 56 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
The methods described below are based on the capacity assessment and are summarized in Table
A.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category            ICB            NCh                          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00            2.00           0.70          0.08           2.78
(0.00)         (1.20)         (0.42)         (0.00)        (1.62)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           1.80           0.87          2.67
Consultants & Training 3/         (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.08)         (0.00)        (1.08)
4. Operating Expenditures           0.00            0.00           0.35           0.00          0.3 5
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.30)         (0.00)        (0.30)
5. Subproject Grants                0.00            0.00           5.00           7.90         12.90
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.50)         (0.00)        (4.50)
Total                            0.00            2.00           7.85           8.85          18.70
(0.00)         (1.20)         (6.30)         (0.00)        (7.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
3i Include training materials, rentals, and transportation, accommodation & per diem for participants.
- 57 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Con; ii  ;   ;;tractJ070 Value                  0000 07 X 0Contracts SU*let to
Threshold        ~~Prfuoemenlt             Prior Review
Expenditre Caftegry        (V$tosnd)Mto                                         US$ thousands)
1. Works                                           Community participation              0
2. Goods                          >100                      NCB                        All
(Other than for                   <l00                    Shopping                First contract
community subprojects)
3. Services: Firms                >200                     QCBS              All (expressions of interest
required)
>100                     QCBS                        All
<100                     QCBS             None (except first contract
for service firms under
project, if QCBS and <100)
<100                  Fixed budget        None (except first contract
for service firms under
project, if fixed budget and
<100)
>100                  Fixed budget                   All
<50                  Single source       None (except first contract
for service firms under
project, if single source)
Individuals                       >50               Section V of Guidelines            All
<50              Section V of Guidelines   TORs and first contract
-______________________   ________________________   ________________________  (if   first     < 5 0 )
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$450,000
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
There would be two post review missions per year carried out by Bank's procurement staff after six
months of Project initiation, and yearly procurement audits.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 58 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement categories and amounts are indicated in Table C. The Grant is expected to be disbursed over
a seven-year period. The Project will be completed by December 31, 2007 and the Closing date is June 30,
2008.
The financial management assessment was carried out by a certified specialist. This review was based on
the Bank's guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the
project's accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, and
selection of auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be
submitted quarterly by the executing agency, Nacional Financiera (NAFIN). This assessment revealed that
the project does not yet have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide,
with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information as required by the Bank. NAFIN's current
system satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements, but this will not replace the
project's own MIS in the PIU to be established (NAFIN-executing agency). This new project management
system will include production of quarterly PMIRs, which eventually will allow PMRs-based
disbursements. It is expected that traditional disbursement methods (SOEs, special commitments and direct
payments) will be used until NAFIN central coordination unit and NAFIN regional units are ready to adopt
the new methodology.
A Special Account in US dollars with an initial deposit of US $0.4 million would be established at NAFIN.
This special account will be replenished and will be used for all transactions with a value of less than 20%
of the amount advanced to the Special Account. Traditional documentation requirements apply for direct
payments, special commitments and statements of expenditures (SOEs). If the project is converted to
PMR-based disbursement methodology, disbursement procedures should be in line with the Financial
Management Initiative (FMI). NAFIN-executing agency, with technical support from NAFIN-financial
agency, would prepare the necessary documentation for prompt disbursements. Considering the size of the
contracts, all goods, operating expenditures and subprojects, and most of the consultant services, are
expected to be disbursed through SOEs (most contracts for goods, consultant firm contracts below US
$200,000.00, individual consultant contracts below US $50,000.00, all expenditures for subprojects,
training and operating costs).
NAFIN-executing agency will maintain separate project records. Such records will be maintained in order
to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures of
each project activity. The unit will be audited on annual basis by independent auditors. The audit report
will be prepared based on (i) International Standards on Auditing (ii) existing Memorandum of Technical
Understanding on auditing (MET) and (iii) the Bank's guidelines. The audit report will be submitted to the
Bank within the six months after the end of each year.
Action Plan (critical activities)
The following (will be reflected as an effectiveness condition) and was agreed at negotiations:
a)    Preparation of the Operational Manual, which will specify procedures and requirements on
the project accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system
(including format and contents of the Project Management Report to be submitted on quarterly
basis).
- 59 -



Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Ex=dtr Caegr                     Amou0int      l0 In USS#,iIIion  lancling Percentage  
1. Goods (except as covered by              0.16                          86%
Categories 3 and 4 below)
2. Consultant Services and Training         1.84                          100%
(except as covered by Category 4
below)
3. Operating Expenditures                   0.56                          86%
4. Goods, works, services and training      3.42              100% of amounts disbursed by the
for Type A, B or C Community                                   Recipient for said Community
Subprojects                                                            Subprojects
5. Working capital for Type D               0.80             100% of amounts disbursed by the
Community Subprojects                                          Recipient for said Community
Subprojects
6. Unallocated                              0.72
Total Project Costs                         7.50
Total                                       7.50
-60 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MEXICO: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       10                            13
First Bank mission (identification)              04/05/99                      04/05/99
Appraisal mission departure                      02/08/2000                    05/15/2000
Negotiations                                     05/08/2000                    10/19/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    06/08/2000                    01/30/2001
Prepared by:
SEMARNAP delegations in Oaxaca, Michoacan, and Guerrero and the Subsecretaria de Recursos
Naturales, SEMARNAP, Mexico
Preparation assistance:
Jorge del Valle (Subsecretaria de Recursos Naturales), Gerardo Segura (PROCYMAF), Salvador Anta
(SEMARNAP-Oaxaca), Adrian Flores (SEMARNAP-Guerrero, Francisco Pamplona
(SEMARNAP-Michocan), Rosendo Caro y Alberto Gomez Tagle (SEMARNAP-Michoacan delegation),
Vinicio Meza (SEMARNAP-Oaxaca delegation), Octavio Klimek (SEMARNAP-Guerrero delegation),
Alma Godoy (PROCYMAF), Juan Manuel Barrera (PROCYMAF-Oaxaca), Luis Bojorquez (Ecological
Institute, Universidad Autonoma de Mexico), Gustavo Ramirez (Sierra Juarez), Francisco Chapela
(Estudios Rurales y Asesoria - ERA), Juan Rodriguez (consultant).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Adolfo Brizzi                      Sector Leader, ESSD
Augusta Molnar                    Team Task Leader
Juan Martinez                      Task Team Leader
George Ledec                       Ecologist Specialist
Ricardo Hernandez                  Environmental Specialist
Ferenc Molnar                      Senior Legal Counsel
Mariangeles Sabella               Legal Counsel
Victor Ordonez                     Financial Management Specialist
Carmen Nielsen                     Procurement Specialist
Andy White                         Consultant, Forestry Specialist
Tania Carrasco                     Consultant, Anthropologist
Karen Berelowitz                  Consultant, Operations
Maria Teresa Franco                Consultant, Operations
Lynn Ellsworth                     Consultant, Institutional Specialist
Erica Felix-Castaneda              Project Assistant
Christine Kimes                    Regional GEF Coordinator
Lea Braslavsky                     Procurement Specialist
Michael Fowler                     Senior Disbursement Officer
-61 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MEXICO: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
A. Project Implementation Plan
Plan de Instrumentaci6n del Proyecto
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Staff Appraisal Report-Ln, 4137-ME Community Forestry Project
Resource Conservation and Forestry Sector Review, Report No. 13114-ME (gray cover)
C. Other
Forestry Report - Michoacan
Forestry Report - Guerrero
State Diagnostic Report - Michoacan
Indigenous State and Ethnic Group Profiles - Michoacan
Indigenous State and Ethnic Group Profiles - Guerrero
Indigenous State and Ethnic Group Profiles - Oaxaca
Social Assessment: Oaxaca
Social Assessment: Michoacan
Social Assessment: Guerrero
Talleres de Diseno (Minutes of Design Workshops with Stakeholders), August 1999, February and
May 2000
Estudios para Definir Areas Prioritarias para la Conservacion de la Biodiversidad para el Proyecto
COINBIO (Studies for the Definition of Priority Areas for Biodiversity Conservation for the COINBIO
Project)
*Including electronic files
-62 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MEXICO: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                       IBRO      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P048505       1999 Mexico                     AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                              444.45       0 00       0 00     266 35      11 30       0 00
P067491       2000 Mexico                     Bank Restructuring Facility                       505.06       0.00       000      15000      144.94      00
P007700       1997 Mexico                     COMMUNITY FORESTRY                                 1500        0.00       0 00       781        2.66       000
P007610        1999 Mexico                    FOVI RESTRUCTURING                                505.05       000        0.00     46200      282.00       000
P007723        1993 Mexico                    HWY RHB & SAFETY                                  480.00       0 00       0.00       6 83       6 83       0.00
P044531       1998 Mexico                     KNOWLEDGE & INNOV                                 300.00       0.00       0 00     251.23      26 23       0 00
P007648       1993 Mexico                     MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                              200.00       0.00      23 00     107 49     130.49     107 49
P066938       2000 Mexico                     MX GENDER (LIL)                                     3.07       0 00       0 00       3 07       0 00       000
P007720        1998 Mexico                    MX. HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - SAL                    700 00       0 00       000      350 00     350 00       0 00
P040199        1998 Mexico                    MX: BASIC EDUC.DEVELOPMENT PHASE I                11500        000        000       6940       2783        000
P007689        1996 Mexico                    MX: BASIC HEALTH II                               31000        000        0.00      94 30      75 25      60 30
P055061       1998 Mexico                     MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                        25.00       0.00       0.00      1539        959        000
P049895        1998 Mexico                    MX: HIGHER ED. FINANCING                          180.20       0 00       0 00     164 68      33 74       3 00
P007725        1994 Mexico                    MX: PRIMARYEDUC.II                                412.00       000       40.00      6667      10667       6667
P034490        1995 Mexico                    MX:TECHNICALEDUCITRAINING                         265.00       000       3000      124.11     15411        908
P007710        1994 Mexico                    N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                              368.00       0.00     300.99      3622      32221       46.11
P007701       1994 Mexico                     ON-FARM& MINOR IRRI                               200.00       000       3000       51.22      8122       1095
P007711       1998 Mexico                     RURAL DEV. MARG AREA                               47.00       000        0.00      3529       1480        0.00
P057530       2000 Mexico                     RURAL DEV.MARG.ARII                                55.00       0.00       000       51 45      -0.55       0 00
P007612       1994 Mexico                     SOLID WASTE II                                    20000        0.00     19306        1.48      -4.46       147
P007713        1996 Mexico                    WATER RESOURCES MANA                              186.50       000        0.00     13386       6522       1207
Total:     5516.33        000       61705      244885    1840.12     314.14
- 63 -



MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1988/91/92/93/95   Apasco                        12.60    0.00    0.00   50.40   12.60    0.00    0.00   50.40
1998               Ayvi                          10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92/96         BANAMEX                      96.21    0.00    0.00   45.18   96.21    0.00    0.00   45.18
1997               Banco Bilbao MXC              70.59    0.00   30.00    0.00   70.59    0.00   30.00    0.00
1992               Banorte-SABROZA               3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/96            Baring Mex. FMC               0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02      0.00    0.00
1995/99            Baring Venture                0.00    2.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               CIMA Mexico                   0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00
1998               CIMA Puebla                   7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               CTAPV                         3.73    0.00    2.32    0.00    3.73    0.00    2.32    0.00
0                Chiapas-Propalma               0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31      0.00    0.00
1997               Comercializadora              3.06    0.00    2.19    6.25    3.06    0.00    2.19    6.25
1999               Corsa                         13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00   13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Derivados                     2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Fondo Chiapas                 0.00    4.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.43    0.00    0.00
1998               Forja Monterrey               13.00    3.00    0.00    13.00   13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00
1991/96            GIBSA                        21.64    0.00   10.00   72.76   21.64    0.00    10.00   72.76
1993               GIDESA                        6.25    8.00    0.00    4.25    6.25    8.00    0.00    4.25
1996/00            GIRSA                        45.00    0.00    0.00   60.00   22.71    0.00    0.00   30.29
1993               GOTM                          0.82    0.00    0.00    0.22    0.82    0.00    0.00    0.22
1997/98            Gen. Hipotecaria              0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Grupo Calidra                 12.00    6.00    0.00    10.00   12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00
Grupo FEMSA                   0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00
1989               Grupo Minsa                   18.00   10.00    0.00   27.00   18.00   10.00    0.00   27.00
1997               Grupo Posadas                25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00   25.00    0.00    10.00   10.00
1992/93/95/96/99   Grupo Probursa                0.00    1.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.32    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97/98      Grupo Sanfandila              9.58    0.00    0.00    4.70    6.25    0.00    0.00    3.03
1998               Heller Financial              0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1994/96/98/00      ITR                           14.00    0.00    0.00    4.00   10.90    0.00    0.00    3.10
2000               Interceramic                   8.00    0.00    6.00    3.50    8.00    0.00    6.00    3.50
1994              InverCap                       0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Masterpak                      2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Merida III                   30.00    0.00    0.00   73.95   27.36    0.00    0.00   67.44
1998               Mexplus Puertos               0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1995/99            NEMAK                         0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00
1996/99/00         Punta Langosta                2.63    1.00    0.00    4.55    2.63    1.00    0.00    4.55
1998               Rio Bravo                    50.00    0.00    0.00   59.50   22.83    0.00    0.00   27.17
2000               Saltillo S.A.                 35.00    0.00    0.00   43.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000               Sudamerica                     0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999               TMA                           2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60    2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60
1997               Toluca Toll Road              7.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.16    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               Vitro                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1991/92            Vitro Flotado                 4.96    0.00    0.00    2.07    4.96    0.00    0.00    2.07
1991               ZN Mxc Eqty Fund              0.00   25.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.81      0.00    0.00
1998
Total Portfolio:      529.60   98.53   63.44  503.93  432.57   74.85    63.44  389.81
- 64 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999               BANAMEX LRF 11                50000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999               Baring BMPEF FMC                  0.00     60.00       0.00      0.00
1998               Cima Hermosillo                7000.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
2000               Educacion                      9700.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               FCCM                           10500.00   2000.00      0.00  17700.00
2000               Hospital ABC                  30000.00       0.00      0.00  14000.00
2000               Innopack                       15000.00  15000.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Teksid Aluminio               25000.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Teksid Hierro                 15000.00      0.00       0.00  30000.00
Total Pending Commitment:    162200.00  17060.00      0.00  61700.00
-65 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MEXICO: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project in Mexico
Latin    Unoar-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Mexico   & Carib.  Income        Development diamond'
1999
Pontilation mid-veer fmiffionsl                        97 4        sn9       573                  Life expectancy
GNP oercaoita (Atlas method. USS)                     4.410      3.840     4.900
rGNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                     479 8      1 95.    7 R11
Averaae annual arowth. 1993-99
Pontilatinn (%)                                          1 7       1 R        1 4
Labor forcef%)                                           3.0       2.5        2.1     GNP                               Gross
per                             Primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1993-991                                 capita          \nrnsnm-t
Povertv (% of ooulation below national oovertv line)
Urhan nonirlatinn (% Of total oooulattion)               74         75        7A
Life exoectancv at birth /vears)                         72         70        70
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                 30         31        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                           8         7                Access to safe water
Access to imDroved water sourre /% ofDoDulation)         83         75        78
Illiterarvy % of oooulafion aae 15+)                      9         12        10
Gross onmarv enrollment (% of school-aae oooulation)    114        113       109               Mexico
MaIP                                                  115                                    Upper-middle-incomne group
Fermral                                              1i13
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                           134 5    223.0      416.3     483.7
(Grss dnmestir investment/Uf P                27n      772 9      74 3      23 2
Fxnorts nf nonds and servioeq/rrP             117       19 n      30A       3n0 8                     Trade
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                    24.7     22.9       22.3      21.9
Gross national savinnslCnlP                   71 7     2n3        20 5      20 f
Current account balancelGDP                   -4.1      -2.6      -3.9       -2.9     Domestic
IntersIt navmentf/rrfP                         2 5      3     r   2 4         17      Savtigs                       Investment
Tnoal dehblGrP                                31 R     421        3R 4      34 n
Total debt service/exoorts                    724      32.9       19 2       24.6
Present value nf debht l)P                                        374       330 
Present value of debtlexoorts                             ..     111.5     100.4
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(averaae annual orowth)
("DP                                  13       29       48         37         49                Mexico
GNP nar cannla                       -0 9      11       31         2 5        32                Upper-middle-income gfoup
Exoorts of ooods and services         8.4     13.6     12.0       13.9        7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
i979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(56 of GDPI                                                                           40
AnrirAiltujrr                                  9 8       7 8       5 3        50
Industrv                                      33.4     29.4       28.5      28.2      20
Manirfactiinno                              22 7      21 9       21 3      71 1      
Services                                      56.7     62.9       66.3      66.8    -2D      94   97 9r   99
Private consimrtion                           84 4     88i 9      R7 3      6R0       -40
Gpneral novemment ronsumotion                 109        83       104        100                     GDI        '  GDP
Imoords of ooods and services                 12.5      19.1      32.8      32.0
1979-89  1989-99       199B      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(avearue annual1t0wth)
Andrvitirp.                                    1 7       1 7       OR         3       30
Industrv                                       0.9      3.5        6.3       3.8      1 5   _
Manr,farnri,nnn                               11       40         73        41
Sarvic-s                                       1s        27        4 5        3 f     o
Private ronsumnnton                            1 4       22        5 5        4 3    -15           O
GPneral novemment consurmntin                  31        1 7       22         1 n
Gross domestic investment                     -4.3      4.3        9.5        1.5   -30
Imnorts nf onnds and services                 -1 1      119       1R5        128                   Exports     C-Imports
Gross national omduct                          112       2.9       4.8        4.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-arouo averaoe. If data are missino. the diamond will
hb inromnlpet
- 66 -



Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999     Inflation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        40
Consumer prices                                ..    20.o       15.9      16.7    30
ImplicitGDPdeflator                          19.6    26.5       15.4      15.9    20
Govemment finance                                                                 10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                0
Current revenue                                ..    25.8       20.4      20.7            94   95   9f   97   98   99
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.8        2.1       1.7                  GDP deflator    CCPl
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -4.6       -1.2      -1.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989        1998     1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  35,171    117,460   136,391    lso.ooo 
Oil                                           .   7,876      7,134     9,928
Agriculture                                        1,754      3,797    3,926      oo0   . 0
Manufactures                                  ..  24,936   106,062   122,086
Total imports (ci)                             .   34,766   125,373   141,975
Consumer goods                                .   3,499    11,109    12,175       0,r000         -          !     ,
Intermediate goods                            .  26,499    96,935   109,270
Capital goods                                 .   4,769    17,329   20,530           o id
93 94 95  98i9    8 9
ExDort Dnce index (1995=100)                           96         95       98
Imort orice index (1995=100)                           89        100       99                 * Exports     Itmnports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..    108         94       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1979    1989        1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP I%
Exports of goods and services              15,131   42,362   128,982  148,083      0o
Imports of goods and services              16,704   42,426   137,801   155,465
Resource balance                           -1,573      -63    -8,818    -7,382     -
Net income                                 -4,111   -8,302   -13,284   -13,083
Netcurrenttransfers                          131    2,544      6,012    6,313    I4 I                            i
Current account balance                    -5,553   -5,821    -16,090   -14,153
Financing items (net)                       5,868    6,093    18,227    14,746
Changes in net reserves                      -315    -272    -2,137      -594
Memo:
Reserves includino gold (USS millions)         ..   6.376    29.032   31.829
Conversion rate (DEC. locaL/USS,          2.3E-02      2.5       9.2       9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       42,765   93,826   159,962   164,532
IBRD                                      1,731    7,821    11,514    10,804                      A: 10,804
IDA                                          0        0          0        0           G:30 C0 .233
Total debt service                         11,591   15,559    26,778    39,072                                  D 0,11
IBRD                                       221    1,245      2,024    2,171                     _\
IDA                                          0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Offiual grants                              27       37         32
Official creditors                         284      936       -776   -1,262
Private creditors                         3,798   -2,397    12,219     6,308                               /
Foreign direct investment                 1,332    3,037    10,238    11,568
Portfolio equity                             0        0       730    3,769                         F: 107,101
World Bank program
Commitments                                527    2,325      2,212     1,616     A- IBRD                     E - 8ilateral
Disbursements                              326    1,297      1,283      839      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        76      677      1,257     1,326     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                  250      620         26      -487
Interest payments                          145      567        767      846
Net transfers                              105       52       -741    -1,332
Development Economics                                                                                               8125/00
-67 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
Introduction
The project is an indigenous peoples community development project with indigenous peoples constituting
over 80% of the project beneficiaries and therefore can itself be considered an Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan. This social assessment is based on the findings of extensive participatory studies carried out in the states
of Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero. The studies were conducted to evaluate existing socio-economic data and
to collect new qualitative and quantitative information through participatory appraisal and local consultations
in order to assess the changing dynamics of land use, demographic pressure and the social, political, and
cultural conditions that affect the sustainable use of natural resources.
The objectives of the assessments were to: (a) characterize the socio-econornic and cultural situation of
communities in the priority areas for biodiversity conservation, overlapping this information with bio-physical
information from the environmental assessment; (b) identify key issues and opportunities related to land tenure
and property rights regimes, as well as the history of agrarian conflicts in the project area; (c) identify the range
of community governance structures, including their dynamism, level and form of decision-making, and
effectiveness for resource management; (d) analyze the forms of community and inter-community association,
including the vitality of these associations for purposes of conservation and resource management or productive
activities, including revolving or other credit associations; (e) identify existing natural resource management
practices, including resource management linked to agricultural and forestry activities, and (f) evaluate
experiences with external assistance (NGOs, religious foundations, government programs, private sector) for
natural resource management.
The intended outcomes of the social assessment are to present: (a) the development of salient categories and
characterizations of the communities to be involved in conservation activities and capacity-building initiatives
according to their organizational capacity for conservation initiatives, the presence of priority biodiverse
resources within their community or ejido boundaries, the current and potential incentive structure for
undertaking conservation activities given their resource base and current development of productive
biodiversity-friendly economic activities, and presence of regional associations with potential to foster
conservation initiatives; (b) the identification of the range of capacity building and information creation and
dissemination activities needed to support community organization and conservation initiatives; (c) the
identification of opportunities and constraints for the implementation of sustainable productive investments
complementary to conservation efforts; and (d) the identification of legal or policy measures which would
increase the legal recognition of community conservation decisions, as recorded in the communal statutes and
made in alliances among communities, and which would support the sustained efforts of communities vis-a-vis
federal and state administrative structures and sectoral agencies.
The methodology used for the social assessments included: (i) obtaining existing statistical and
demographic information; (ii) conducting extensive household surveys and interviews; (iii) conducting
interviews with local and institutional representatives to identify the predominant forms of land tenure and land
use and to identify areas in which agrarian conflict is present that may negatively affect the viability of
conservation activities; (iv) reviewing governmental and civil society institutions to create a list of organizations
and communities with experience in conservation and the viability of these to manage the project; (v) holding
participatory consultation workshops to assess beneficiaries' opinions on the components and management
structure of the project; (vi) organizing focus groups, interviews and community consultation workshops to
identify current and planned conservation practices; (vii) carrying out participatory evaluations to determine the
- 68 -



potential risks or possible negative impacts of the project, such as increased economic inequality, exacerbation
of internal disputes and conflicts or disturbance of traditional cultural practices; (viii) mapping for
identification of the different types of vegetation and degree of conservation and protection; and (ix) community
consultations, surveys and interviews to determine existing levels of organization and social conditions. In each
of the three states, social specialists were hired to carry out the interviews and hold participatory workshops at
the community/ejido level (in Guerrero and Michoacan) and/or consultative workshops at the regional level
with the participation of 20-30 community and ejido representatives (in Oaxaca and Michoacan).
Project Summary
The COINBIO project aims to channel financial resources and information directly to indigenous
communities and ejidos for conservation and sustainable management activities in areas of high biodiversity in
the states of Oaxaca, Michoacan, and Guerrero. The project has five main components: (a) land use planning
and training activities to develop the information base and institutional framework necessary to identify,
delineate and establish biodiversity conservation and sustainable use areas; (b) financing for sustainable
community investments in protection, conservation or sustainable use activities that provide alternatives to
land-use and income-generating practices that deteriorate the local resource base; (c) capacity building
activities for state level coordinating units and community conservation funds to allow communities to establish
long-term conservation mechanisms and to participate in experience interchanges with other communities; (d)
biological monitoring and evaluation to assess the viability of conservation areas being established, track
changes over time, generate biological data to contribute to an on-going geographically referenced information
system and engage communities in participatory evaluation of their progress with conservation; and (e) project
management activities including evaluation and dissemination of relevant experiences to other parts of Mexico
and Latin America.
Socio-economic Characteristics of Indigenous Communities and Ejidos in the Project Area
There are a majority of distinct indigenous peoples groups residing in the area identified for project
intervention. Oaxaca has the highest density of indigenous peoples, with Zapotecos, Chontales, Mixes,
Amuzgo, Chinantecos, and Chatinos present in the priority areas. Michoacan indigenous groups in the project
area include the Mazahuas of the Oriente region, the Purepeche of the Meseta Purepeche and the Nahuas of the
coastal zone. The indigenous peoples in the Guerrero project area include Tlapaneco, Amuzgo, Nahuatl, and
Mixteco. The attached map of Mexico shows the general distribution of these groups within the three states.
Indigenous communities in the project area have a relatively strong persistence of traditional internal
governance systems in which communal decision-making is prevalent. In addition, there is a strong tradition of
cooperation which fosters labor exchanges and mobilization for communal activities, including resource
management activities and the building and maintenance of social infrastructure. While temporary and
long-term migration of large numbers of community members in search of wage labor has decapitalized the
community structure, the expansion of forestry and commercial perennial crops (coffee, cacao) in some
communities has reversed this trend and/or led migrants to send substantial remittances for investment in their
communities of origin. While population pressures have made many traditional agro-ecological practices
unsustainable, cultivation according to traditional technologies using traditional crops and complementing
cultivation with hunting and gathering activities is still widespread, and has been combined with adaptive
technologies to stabilize soil and moisture regimes and increase fertility.
In Michoacan, the social assessment confirmed that there are many active organizations (social, political,
economic, religious, forestry, environmental) in the state, and that community decision-making practices center
around general assemblies, with leaders nominated by the community assemblies and given substantial support
-69 -



to represent the communities in any civil or agrarian matter. The communities also rely heavily on traditional
leaders, whose roles center mostly around maintaining cultural traditions and festivals, transmission of
indigenous knowledge and enforcement of community obligations. Community-led conservation activities were
also an integral part of traditional communal obligations, but with the formation of governmental sectoral
committees (i.e. health, education, fire control) whose members are paid, this is no longer the case and
conservation initiatives are now discussed and agreed upon by community consensus. The study also found
that women, as the caretakers of children, household resources and agricultural products, are seen as the main
source of transmission of the use and conservation of natural resources. While women participate actively in
community activities, they often do not have voting rights in community assemblies.
The studies carried out for the SA provide detailed information on the target communities in terms of land
tenure, socio-economic indicators, level of community cohesion and internal governance, and forestry use and
management. They also identify communities with Communal Statutes which address land use zoning. For
example, of the 22 potential sites studied in Michoacan, half are indigenous communities, 41% are ejidos, and
the reminder are comprised of both types of land tenancy. Twenty-eight percent of communities in the Oriente
region had communal conservation areas established by official decree and 72% established by community
decision, some by both. These have been carried out in community asambleas by verbal agreement or in some
cases through actas signed by authorities. In cases where the conservation areas were established by official
decree without uniform agreement from the community, the study found that over time, most members became
convinced of the value of conserving the flora and fauna resources in established reserves (20 of the 22 areas in
which surveys and interviews were conducted in Michoacan were found to agree with the value and benefits of
conservation and therefore expressed interest in participating in this type of project.) In Oaxaca, 30 localities
were included in the study, all but 8 of which had completed the land adjudication process under the national
land tenure certification program, PROCEDE.
There is a wide range of variation in the extent to which communities and ejidos in the three states are
actively managing their forest resources and the extent to which these provide important sources of income.
The communities with sophisticated timber processing and harvesting enterprises are concentrated in the Sierra
Juarez region of Oaxaca, a few communities of the Michoacan Meseta, and a few communities in Filo Mayor
in Guerrero. In all three states, there are communities with substantially important and sizable biodiversity
areas. These are at risk from expanding agricultural frontiers, but there is potential to create incentives for
conservation and protection through ecotourism, controlled harvesting of non-timber forest products, and/or
sustainable farming system practices in adjoining agricultural areas. Other communities fall in a middle range
in terms of the sophistication of their forest use and management and their extent of biodiverse resources.
The studies found that many communities in the three states are involved in a wide range of conservation
and protection activities. While some are ancestral traditions, transmitted through the generations, many of
these have been lost to migration and cultural degradation, emphasizing the need to preserve these mechanisms
and maintain them through younger generations. Some conservation activities are inspired by indigenous'
communities respect for the water, air, plants and animals that are an integral part of their culture, while others
have been encouraged by local NGOs and incorporated into local traditions. In addition, some Guerrero
communities have organized a variety of courses concerning sustainable conservation, such as deer and trout
breeding, organic forestry, natural resource management, participatory planning for men and women, crop
rotation, and water source protection, as well as interchanges to disseminate successful experiences.
In Michoacan, communities fell within a wide range of proposed methods of participation in conservation
activities, from unpaid voluntary fire control and vigilance brigades to hired work for reforestation, planting
and ecotourism projects. Some communities are in the beginning stages of land use planning on established
conservation areas, while others such as San Juan Nuevo and Villa Madero are ready to develop and begin
- 70 -



financing their sustainable conservation proposals. In Guerrero, the range of proposed sustainable use
activities included organic coffee, reforestation of fruit trees, crop diversification, production of certified
organic goods, ecotourism, rehabilitation of a tree nursery, alternative crops, planting of Christmas trees,
mezcal bottling plant, water purification plant, mushroom cultivation, ornamental flower nursery, deer
breeding, cultivation of medicinal plants, fruit production, wooden crafts, herb cultivation, etc.
Overall, the studies identify a dynamic target population, in which the changing economy and increasing
awareness in Mexico of the value of natural resources is leading to new development perspectives for
community and ejido members. While uneven, there is a revival of indigenous culture underway, in which
community members are reasserting an indigenous identity and linking their future development to the
permanence of their community of origin and its land and natural resource base. In addition, the negative social
effects of cultivating illegal narcotic crops is leading some communities in these areas to opt for alternative
sources of income which do not engender internal conflicts or increased regional violence.
Selection of Communities for Participation
Preliminary work has been carried out during implementation of the Block A preparation grant in Oaxaca
and in the activities carried out to date under the Block B preparation grant in all three states, which has
identified the project areas and potential list of participating communities with the requisite organizational
capacity, interest and biodiversity resources.
The characterization of communities (see list of communities by level of capacity and conservation
opportunity at the end of this annex) combines the communities' socio-economic characteristics with biological
and bio-physical criteria. Eligible communities for the full range of capacity-building and conservation
activities are those with the greatest interest in and capacity for conservation located in priority areas of
biodiversity. The criteria for eligibility are that the community concerned: (a) is in an area of high biodiversity;
(b) has a Communal Statute; (c) has the organizational capacity for conservation; (d) has prior forest
management experience; (e) has participated in past or on-going natural resource management, conservation or
training projects funded by donor, NGO or government resources; (f) has active members of community
networks for NRM; and/or (g) is involved in or planning any sustainable, multiple-use activities (such as
marketing of non-timber forest products).
Communities eligible for capacity-building but not investment activities will be those with significant
biodiversity resources, but which are at a preliminary stage of organization for conservation. It is expected that
all communities will develop more capacity during project implementation and that, over time, a number of
communities that were not eligible for conservation area activities and investments at the beginning of the
project will be reclassified as eligible at a later stage. A mid-term review is planned which would evaluate the
present capacity of all communities in the project area and evaluate the continued appropriateness of the
selection criteria to determine the priority setting for financing activities under the project. In some cases, the
more advanced communities may not be in need of continued financing for conservation areas because they will
have the interest in and capacity for maintaining their own investments, for example, through rotating
community funds. This would require priority setting in the that looks both at interest and capacity of all
communities as well as providing a means for channeling scarce resources to those communities most in need of
outside support, should the demand for conservation activities be greater than the available resources. If the
networks and alliances within clusters of conservation areas prove effective, the criteria for selection could also
provide an incentive for communities to identify multi-community investments or conservation activities that
would increase the biodiversity conservation value of individual sites.
- 71 -



Conclusion
The studies confirmed that in order to establish a solid concept of community conservation, the following
activities should be supported by the project: productive products; normative processes; community
organization for protection, vigilance, and fire control; natural resource use planning; and rehabilitation of
forest areas.
Foreseen benefits of the project in addition to strict biodiversity conservation include employment
generation, increased environmental awareness, increased community participation, eco-friendly agricultural
practices, reduction in inter-community conflict over territory if they are jointly responsible for its protection,
capacity-building, increased internal organization and natural resource management skills, reduced pressure on
the land, increased community decision-making practices, reduced reliance on illicit crop production, improved
quality of life through increased income, and decreased out-migration, especially among youth.80
TABLE 1: TECHNICAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION
ON PRIORITY REGIONS OF BIODIVERSITY
Candidate    Technical Information                         Social Information
Area
Sierra        Area: 700,000 has.                           There are two main indigenous groups in the
Juarez,       Ecoregion: southern Sierra Madre             region: Zapateco (33% of Oaxaca's indigenous
Oaxaca        Sierra Juarez is a diverse mountainous region  population; 4% of national population) and
containing dry tropical pine-oak forest (300,000   Mixteco (23% and 2% respectively. In response
has. ) and subalpine grassland at higher altitudes  to unfavorable agricultural prices, land and soil
and tropical broadleaf, (100,000 has. )      degradation, and lack of irrigation and road
mesofilous forest (150,000), and thorny scrub in  infrastructure, communities in the Sierra Juarez
the lower altitudes. Indigenous communities  have developed a complex system of sedentary
have a long presence in the area and have    and shifting agriculture, forestry, and temporary
developed agricultural systems with high plant    patterns of outmigration to generate cash income
diversity which complement the natural ecology   to sustain local livelihoods. These communities
of the intact forest areas.                  engaged in a decade long struggle in the 1970s
and 1980s to cancel the logging concession
granted to a state pulp parastatal, organizing
themselves through the struggle, and
subsequently developing their own groups of
forestry enterprises. Successful communities
have reduced the need for migration, and
modified their agricultural strategies to conserve
their forest estate. Traditional knowledge of
ecosystems and biodiversity is very high, as are
indigenous systems of communal governance
and appointment of local authorities.
- 72 -



Chinantla,     Area: 170,000 has.                             The main indigenous inhabitants of this region
Oaxaca         Ecoregion:                                     are Chinanteco, an ethnic group which is 50% of
The region is divided in I I subregions including   the region's population and 9% of the
one zone flooded by the Cerro de Oro dam, the    indigenous population of the state. There is still
most important being the high sierra, the      substantial practice of shifting cultivation in this
mid-sierra with dwarf forest, and the alluvial  region, with varying impacts depending on
plains.                                        population pressure. In some areas it is still
benign, in other population density leads to
conversion and degradation. Shade coffee is a
common cultivation in the middle altitudes and
this ethnic group has a long tradition of
sophisticated resource use and agriculture
adapted to foster plant and ecosystem diversity,
with a single household maintaining plots at
different elevations and different soil types.
Communities have strong cultural traditions and
mobilize traditional labor exchanges for building
and maintaining infrastructure and financing
local improvements.
- 73 -



Area: 100,000 has.                              This region has three main indigenous groups,
Costa,         Ecoregion:                                       the Mixtecos and the Chatinos and some
Oaxaca                                                          Zapotecos. Liks the Sierra Juarez, the
communities have organized for forestry
enterprises, but not as intensively or for as long
of a period of time. The main pressures on
forested areas, as in the other regions, are
clearing of forest for agriculture and livestock
rearing, and illegal logging in those communities
that are not organized.
- 74 -



Meseta       Area: 57,085                                The Meseta is the traditional territory of the
Purepeche,    Ecoregion: Tancitaro                       Purepeche indigenous peoples who were able to
Michoacan                                                maintain control over their community territories
to a great extent during the colonial and
post-colonial period. Some of the indigenous
communities/ejidos have parcelled the rights to
forests for timber and non-timber extraction and
these function as private parcels within a
common management plan. Other areas are
managed as a community block. The most
sophisticated community forestry enterprise in
Mexico is found in San Juan Nuevo. There is a
long tradition of woodworking and forest-based
enterprises through the Meseta. The main
pressures on the forest and environment are
from illegal logging, deforestation to establish
avocado and pesticide and herbicide
contamination from such plantations, clearing
for livestock;
Sierra       Area: 1,074,424                             This region encompasses of the Sierra Madre
Madre del    Ecoregion: Sierra de Atoyac                 del Sur Pine-Oak forestry ecoregion and is an
Sur,                                                     endemic bird area due to its concentration of
Guerrero                                                 range-restricted birds, including the
Short-Crested Coquette hummingbird
(Lophornis brachylopha). The main population
are mestizo with some mixed indigenous origin
such as Tlapaneco and Mixteco, but speaking
mainly Spanish and having a less traditional
community authority structure more like
traditional Mexican ejidos elsewhere in the
region.
- 75 -



Meseta        Area: 57,085                                 The Meseta is the traditional territory of the
Purepeche,    Ecoregion: Tancitaro                         Purepeche indigenous peoples who were able to
Michoacan                                                  maintain control over their community territories
to a great extent during the colonial and
post-colonial period. Some of the indigenous
communities/ejidos have parcelled the rights to
forests for timber and non-timber extraction and
these function as private parcels within a
common management plan. Other areas are
managed as a community block. The most
sophisticated community forestry enterprise in
Mexico is found in San Juan Nuevo. There is a
long tradition of woodworking and forest-based
enterprises through the Meseta. The main
pressures on the forest and environment are
from illegal logging, deforestation to establish
avocado and pesticide and herbicide
contamination from such plantations, clearing
for livestock.
Sierra de     Area 687,010                                 This region is inhabited by the coastal Nahuatl.
Coalcoman,   Eco Region:
Michoacan
Sierra de     Area: 300,964                                This includes populations of Mazahua and
Chincua,      Eco-Region:                                  Otomis as well as mestizo ejidos. There are
Michoacan                                                  communities which have expressed interest in
conservation and some with active forest
management activities.
Infernillo,   Area: 108,287                                No indigenous populations or overlap with
Michoacan/                                                 forestry communities or ejidos.
Guerrero
Cerro         Area: 18,176                                 There are no communities in this region of
Trompetero                                                 biodiversity that have been identified so far for
Cuitzeo,                                                   inclusion in the project.
Guerrero
- 76 -



Sierra       Area: 1,074,424                             This region encompasses of the Sierra Madre
Madre del    Ecoregion: Sierra de Atoyac                 del Sur Pine-Oak forestry ecoregion and is an
Sur,                                                     endemic bird area due to its concentration of
Guerrero                                                 range-restricted birds, including the
Short-Crested Coquette hummingbird
(Lophornis brachylopha). The main population
are mestizo with some mixed indigenous origin
such as Tlapaneco and Mixteco, but speaking
mainly Spanish and having a less traditional
community authority structure more like
traditional Mexican ejidos elsewhere in the
region.
Sierra de    Area: 218,014                               This is a region that is adjacent to the urban
Taxco, Gro.                                              area of Taxco and which is the historical
silver-mining and silver-working area. The
higher elevations are traditional territory of the
Nahuatl peoples and due to tourism and mining,
there is a large non-indigenous population mixed
in with smaller settlements and/or ejidos of
Nahuatls. There has not been active forest
management, and mining provides some
conflicting interests to management. There are a
few mainly mestizo communities likely to
participate, but it is not known how many
communities will eventually show interest in
conservation.
Cafion de    Area: 84,844                                This is an area of mixed indigenous settlement
Zapote,                                                  including communities of Nahuatl Tlapaneco,
Guerrero                                                 Mixtecos, and Amuzgos dispersed in a area of
mestizo population.
- 77 -



TABLE 2: PARTIAL LIST OF ELIGIBLE COMMUNITIES IN OAXACA AND MICHOACAN, BY
TYPOLOGY OF COMMUNITY INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY*
Regions           Category I            ategory 2         Category 3          Category 4
OAXACA
COSTA              San Mateo Pifias    Agua Hedionda       Santa Maria
Loma Lim6n          Arroyo Suchil       Huatulco
El Naranjo          Cerro Chino         Petatengo
Piedra Hueca        Hacienda Vieja
Cerro Minas         Piedra de los
Caffada de Minas    Moros
Ojo Venado          Pueblo Viejo
Buena Vista         Todo Santos
San Isidro Loma     El Zapote
Larga               Paso Lim6n
La Hamaca           San Miguel del
Loma Jicara         Puerto
Llano Grande        Santa Maria
Corral de Piedra    Xadani
ISTMO              Zimatan
San Pedro
Huamelula
El Morro Mazatan
SIERRA             San Pedro Yolox     San Gaspar          Santa Cruz          San Juan
NORTE              Santa Maria         Yagalaxi            Tepetotutla         Teponaxtla
Totomoxtla          Asunci6n Lachixila                      Santiago
San Francisco       Santa Cruz                             Comaltepec
Yovego              Yagavila                               Santa Maria Nieves
San Miguel          Santiago Teotlaxco                     Ixtian de Juarez
Tiltepec            San Miguel Yotao                       Santa Catarina
Santa Maria La      San Juan Tagui                         Ixtepeji
Luz                 San Juan Yalahui                       Nuevo Zoquiapam
San Juan Yagila     San Juan Yatzona                       Capulalpam de
Santa Maria         Santo Domingo                          Mendez
Zoogochi            Roayaga                                La Trinidad Ixtlan
San Juan Juqila                        San Pablo
Vijanos                                Macuiltianguis
Santa Maria
Yavesia
Santa Catarina
Lachatao
San Miguel
Amatlan
- 78 -



Regions      |   Category I    |    Category 2          Category 3    |    Category 4
Michoacan
CENTRO            Santa Clara del   Cheran              Angahuan            San Miguel
Cobre            Tingambato                              Charahuen
Zirahuen         Pamatacuaro                             Nuevo San Juan
Parangaricutiro
SUR               Coire                                                     Santa Maria de
Pomaro                                                   Ostula
SUR                                                     Los Pozos           Varalaso
OCCIDENTAL
ORIENTE                                                 Donaciano Ojeda     Cerro Prieto
Chincua
El Paso
Carpinteros
El Calabazo
TIERRA            Tamacuas
CALIENTE          Ichamio
' See Annex 12 for a description of community categories.
- 79 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Part I. Community Typology
The project would channel grant resources to communities to finance a progressive series of
community conservation subprojects tailored to the level of organization and willingness of participating
communities to undertake long-term conservation. Incipient communities with interest in conservation
activities but limited organizational skills and insufficient experience with conservation investment would
be eligible for grants to help finance land use planning, community conservation action plans, diagnostic
studies and inventories, and training events that build their capacity for conservation. The more advanced
and experienced communities would be eligible for grants to help finance activities that assist them to
actively manage and protect areas designated for conservation, including fire control, demarcation,
delimitation, or restoration, and activities that promote sustainable use in adjacent resource areas which
generates income while reducing pressure on conservation areas.
All communities eligible for participation in the project must:
*      be located in priority biodiversity zones
*      c.ontain a minimum area of biodiversity in their land boundaries
*      expresses a willingness to conserve areas of biodiversity
*      have communal or ejido ownership with legal property rights
*      be free of community and border conflicts
*      submit proposals that have been agreed upon by communal assemblies
Eligible communities have been classified as one of four community "categories" for purposes of
determining their eligibility for different levels of financing (see Table 1):
Category 1: Communities with established rules of access to their natural resources
*      no formal community statute, management plan, and/or assembly agreement about the use of and
access to     community natural resources;
*      absence of conservation and sustainable use projects.
Category 2: Communities with established land use plans
*      incipient conservation and sustainable use projects;
*      with or without restricted areas of natural vegetation for socio-cultural or environmental reasons.
Category 3: Communities with established conservation areas
*      functioning conservation and sustainable use projects
*      restricted areas of natural vegetation for socio-cultural or environmental reasons.
Category 4: Communities with enterprises with separate administrative structure
comply with characteristics of Category 3 communities, plus
enterprises with administrative structure for the use of community resources, coordinated by but
independent   of the community's political entity.
- 80 -



Part II. Subproject Typology
There are four types of activities which would be eligible for grant allocation, each with a different
community counterpart requirement (see Table 2), and each with progressively larger grant sizes. In some
cases, communities would provide their own labor and technical assistance; in others, the community would
contract private service producers or purchase small goods and services. Grants would be given directly to
communities.
Type A: Land Use Planning for the Establishment of Biodiversity Conservation Areas (Total: $4.8
million; GEF: $1.7 million)
Type A activities include workshops, participatory rural appraisals, land use planning, mapping,
inventories of existing biodiversity resources, and delimitation of conservation areas, including preparation
of by-laws or communal statutes (where appropriate) for the creation of permanent conservation areas.
Grant amounts for these activities would range in size from $5,000 to $15,000, and counterpart
contribution would be at least 10% of total costs, presented as in kind contributions of local labor, travel,
participation in workshops and evaluations, and community meetings. For pine-oak forest areas,
PROCYMAF would be the lead financier, while GEF funds would be targeted to all other forest types.
While all communities (Categories 1-4) would be eligible for Type A grants, Category 3 and 4 communities
would not require Type A assistance before proceeding to Type C and D activities.
Type B: Training and Capacity-Building, including Horizontal Exchanges (Total: $1.7 million; GEF:
0.6 million)
This component would finance two types of activities necessary for communities to develop the
information base and institutional framework to establish conservation areas. Type B activities include
capacity-building for conservation activities, including training for communities provided by third parties
and by more advanced communities to less advanced ones, strengthening of community networks, and
feasibility studies. Proposals can be made by individual communities or networks of communities, with
grants in the order of $2,000 to $8,000 per community with a minimum counterpart contribution of 20%.
For pine-oak forest areas, PROCYMAF would be the lead financier, while GEF funds would be targeted to
all other forest types. While all communities (Categories 1-4) would be eligible for Type B grants,
Category 3 and 4 communities would not require Type B assistance before proceeding to Type C and D
activities.
Type C: Community Investments for Conservation Areas and Sustainable Use (Total: $4.6 million;
GEF: $1.65 million)
This component would finance investment in conservation areas or in complementary sustainable
uses of biodiversity , including investments to protect or improve the administration of conservation areas,
as well as investments (and feasibility studies) for productive activities that generate sustainable
alternatives for communities. The potential scope of activities could include forest certification studies,
market studies, seed capital for eco-tourism projects, water bottling plants, nature paths, guide training,
mushroom cultivation, resin collection, carbon sequestration and other non-timber forest product
enterprises. Investments for protection could include guard towers, identification markers, fencing, fire
control mechanisms and rehabilitation of forest fringes. It is expected, but not required, that a majority of
communities would first apply for Type A and B projects and "graduate" to Type C investment proposals.
All Type C proposals would be based on a matching formula to apply the incremental cost principle, with a
community counterpart of at least 25%, and would range in size from $15,000 to $20,000. PROCYMAF
- 81 -



would be the lead financier for pilot scale non-timber forest product based investments and both
PROCYMAF and PRODEFOR for technical assistance/ study components of these investments in eligible
forest types. Only Category 3 and 4 communities are eligible to participate in Type C activities.
Type D: Community Green Venture Funds (Total: $1.8 million; GEF: $0.63 million)
Category 4 communities that have developed the capacity to invest in more substantial projects of
sustainable use and which have a longer-term commitment to conservation of their permanent areas would
become eligible for a fourth type of grant investment, which would be a payment into a revolving fund
established at the community level as a separate conservation account. Under this latter modality,
communities that are ready to create a permanent fund for continued financing of sustainable use activities
and conservation areas would be eligible for a larger size grant and would agree to reimburse both the
amount of the grant and their own matching investment into a community account specifically established
for conservation investments. This financing modality would be accessed on a voluntary, self-selecting
basis, and would be targeted to the more advanced communities (Category 4) which have reached a point
of recognizing the value of long-term conservation initiatives and are willing and able to dedicate resources
to this purpose. The scheme would provide a learning experience to the community which should make
them eligible for future support from other local and international conservation donors or from green
venture capital sources (see annex 16). The size of this grant is expected to be between $20,000 and
$50,000, with at least an equivalent amount of community counterpart. Only GEF funding would be
channeled to this component.
Additional criteria for state committees to use in evaluating and deciding between proposals
presented by eligible communities include:
o  feasibility - project has a high probability of success
v  organization - sufficient community organization to guarantee operation of the project
*   replicability - project provides replicable model of an innovative project, activity or strategy
v environmental concerns - proposed area of conservation is under direct and immediate threat
a level of need - community has extreme need for external financial resources
Table I below shows the types of proposals each type of community is expected to present. While
the state committees will have the responsibility to decide which proposals to accept based on these criteria,
they are expected to use great flexibility, since while the typology is useful for classification purposes, the
lines between each "type" of community are not fixed.
- 82 -



Table 1
Expected Demand for Sub-projects
by type of community and activity
TYPE OF         Category 1: with    Catefory 2: with  Cateeory 3: with    Category 4: with
ACTIVITY/        established rules    established land    established      enterprises with
COMMUNITY          of access to their    use plans      conservation areas   sep. organizational
natural                                                  structure
resources
Type A: Land Use       60 % (Year 1)         50%                20 %                20%
Planning               60 % (Year 7)         50 %               20 %                10 %
Tvpe B: Training          40 %              30 %                20 %                20 %
and Capacity              40 %               30 %               20 %                20 %
Building
Type C: Projectsfor       0 %                0 %                60 %                55 %
Conservation and          0 %                0 %                55 %                30 %
Sustainable Use
Type D: Community         0 %                0 %                0 %                 5 %
Green Venture             0 %                0 %                 5 %                40 %
Funds
- 83 -



Table 2
Percentage of Community Contribution to Projects (in cash or kind)
by type of community and activity
TYPE OF          Cateeorv 1: with    Cate2ory 2: with   Category 3: with   Category 4: with
ACTIVITY/         established rules    established land    established       enterprises with
COMMUNITY          of access to their     useplans       conservation areas   sep. organizational
natural resources                                             structure
Type A: Land Use     Community          Community          At least 10% (in    At least 10% (in
Planning             participation or   participation or up   cash or kind).   cash or kind).
up to 10% of cost  to 10% of cost in
in kind.          kind.
Type B: Training     Community          Community          At least 20% (in    At least 20% (in
and Capacity         participation or   participation or up   cash or kind).   cash or kind).
Building             up to 20% of cost   to 20% of cost in
in kind.          kind.
Tvne C(a):           25% in cash        25% in cash        25% in cash         25% in cash
Sustainable Use
Projects (certified
products and
environmental
services)
Type Cfb):           Community          Community          At least 20% (in    At least 20% (in
Conservation         participation or   participation or up   cash or kind).   cash or kind).
Projects             up to 20% of cost  to 20% of cost in
in kind.          kind.
Type D: Community   The combination    The combination    The combination of  The combination of
Green Venture        of resources will    of resources will    resources will be a    resources will be a
Funds                be a factor in the    be a factor in the    factor in the  factor in the
competitive       competitive        competitive         competitive
proposal          proposal           proposal evaluation   proposal evaluation
evaluation        evaluation         process.            process.
process.          process.
- 84 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Environmental Analysis
1.    This Category B project is intended to be entirely positive from an environmental standpoint,
particularly by promoting the conservation of globally significant biodiversity on selected indigenous and
other community and ejido lands. The project would support community-level land use planning and
training for the establishment of conservation areas; investments in conservation areas or in complementary
sustainable uses of biodiversity; local capacity building to enable communities and ejidos to administer
conservation activities and manage funds; biodiversity monitoring and evaluation; and project management
(see Annex 2 for details). The project would be carried out in two phases, to facilitate making appropriate
adjustments after the Mid-term Review.
2.    Project Location. All project investments would take place within the States of Oaxaca,
Guerrero, and Michoacan, on the communally-owned lands of indigenous and other communities (including
ejidos) who voluntarily choose to participate. All of the potentially eligible communities (1,300 possible
communities of which about 300 are expected to be interested or eligible to participate) are situated within
zones which qualify as high-priority areas for biodiversity conservation, based on a re-analysis and a
predictive modelling exercise using data from all existing biodiversity studies, including those by
CONABIO. For participation in capacity-building and land use planning activities, communities within
these zones would be selected according to the biological, social, and organizational typology outlined in
Section E.6.1. and Annex 12 of this PAD. In addition, the Block B modelling study has provided improved
data on biodiversity conservation priority sites, and the sources of threat, thus enabling further refinement
of the biological criterion for high priority biodiversity areas of sufficient size during the period of project
implementation. Section B and Annex 4 of this PAD highlight some of the globally significant biodiversity
attributes of the overall project area.
3 .    Community Conservation Areas. The project would support the establishment and management
of Community Conservation Areas (CCAs), a name used here to refer to the portions of indigenous and
community (including ejido) lands which their owners collectively designate for long-term conservation.
Some CCAs already exist within the project area (such as in the Sierra Juarez of Oaxaca and at San Juan
Nuevo Parangaricutiro in Michoacan); the project would initially promote the establishment of about 1 00
additional CCAs and perhaps another 50 as local capacity increases. CCAs share many of the basic
characteristics of typical, government-supported protected areas on public lands, including the key
objective of long-term conservation of natural ecosystems and their biodiversity. However, CCAs differ in
being situated on private, communally-owned (not public) lands, and their owners and managers are
organized communities and ejidos (not government agencies).
4.    Under the project, eligible CCAs would comprise sites of intact or recovering natural vegetation.
In some cases, CCAs might include zones of biodiversity-friendly forestry or agroforestry systems adjacent
to core areas of natural vegetation. CCAs would encompass areas of strict protection as well as areas
which allow low-impact multiple uses. Which uses are permitted and not would be determined by the
communities and ejidos in their land use plans; the State Committees would take into account the degree
and adequacy of proposed protection and management in selecting CCA proposals for project funding and
SEMARNAP would have ultimate responsibility for environmental screening of subprojects as part of its
role on the state and national committees (SEMARNAP would issue a formal no objection for each
approved subproject). CCAs would range in size from several hundred to tens of thousands of hectares;
- 85 -



selection criteria would favor proposals from communities with larger CCA sites, communities with
greatest economic need, and communities in areas of significant threat. The largest conservation areas
supported under the project are likely to be clusters of several contiguous CCAs in neighboring,
collaborating communities.
5.    Once they have been recorded in the By-Laws (Estatutos Comunales), Resolutions (Actas) or other
legally binding documents of communities and ejidos, CCAs are likely to have long-term legal permanence;
they appear to be no easier to de-gazette than most governmental protected areas. The project (Component
2, Type A) would assist participating communities in the codification of their CCAs within By-Laws and
other legal documents. It would also promote the recognition of CCAs as legitimate protected areas by
Federal and State agencies.
6.     Sustainable Use Investments. This project would support various types of technical assistance,
studies, planning, training, capacity building, project management, and monitoring and evaluation. Only
Component 2, Type C, Community Investments for Conservation Activities and Sustainable Use, would
support any (small) civil works or equipment for use within natural habitat areas. Type C activities would
support investments to improve the on-the-ground protection and management of CCAs, such as physical
demarcation, fire control, and equipment related to protection and administration functions. It would also
finance complementary investments in sustainable uses of biodiversity, thereby strengthening the incentives
to establish and maintain CCAs and providing environmentally-friendly alternatives for production and
income generation.
7.     Component 2, Type C would provide small grants (maximum US$20,000) to eligible communities
in support of sustainable use investments such as water bottling, resin collection, gathering of non-timber
forest products (mushrooms, medicinal plants, and others), wildlife management, ecotourism, and
bio-prospecting, along with environmentally friendly agricultural and agroforestry systems outside the core
protected zones of CCAs. Most of these activities are inherently benign from an environmental standpoint.
Based on the types of similar proposals considered to date under the Community Forestry (PROCYMAF)
project, the environmental risks associated with such activities in the project area are most likely to involve
potential over-harvesting, use of invasive non-native species (such as trout), or human disturbance to highly
sensitive tourist sites (such as caves). These risks would be avoided or minimized through careful review
of proposals by the State Committees, using criteria similar to those now in place for PROCYMAF and
under the oversight of SEMARNAP. In any event, the sustainable use investments to be supported under
Component 2, Type C are expected to be more environmentally friendly than the other types of activities
which communities and ejidos might have pursued in the same areas without project assistance.
8.    Public and NGO Consultation. Although the most important stakeholders from a conservation
standpoint in this project are the community and ejido members who will decide whether and how to
support CCAs or complementary investments, other stakeholders, including environmental NGOs, have
been substantially involved in project design. Some of the NGOs and other outside stakeholders which
were consulted in multiple workshops, meetings, and other occasions during project preparation are
indicated in Section E.6.3. of the PAD. All of the stakeholders consulted have expressed broad support for
this project.
- 86 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Institutional Arrangements and Financial Administrator
1. Project Coordination
Project implementation will be decentralized to the three states through the formation of State
Committees, each of which will be made up of at least three representatives of participating communities
and ejidos, a state SEMARNAP representative, which will be the project coordinator of PROCYMAF in
that state or their equivalent, and state government and civil society representatives. The National
Committee will both agree on annual expenditures and have oversight over the functioning of the three
State Committees. It will be constituted by one community or ejido representative per participating state,
one federal SEMARNAP representative--the PROCYMAF project coordinator or their equivalent--, and
one representative from each of CONANP, CONABIO and CONAF. Both State and National
Committees will have coordination staff, each with a Coordinator and an Administrator (accountant),
although the Coordinator for Oaxaca state will also be the national coordinator, and be based in Oaxaca
state. The national adminstrator will be based on Mexico City in NAFIN's offices. These staff will be the
executors of the committee decisions and will be in charge of project implementation, monitoring and
evaluation, and promotion of activities with participating communities. The organizational structure is
presented below:
- 87 -



STTEC iTE  TINAL COMMITTEE
f/et  *teeio  One forest comnitleido                     communit
representative per parOicipatini
state (3 total)
*CONABIO
S   SEMARNAP  (PROCYMAF)
*NGO member CONAF
government ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ NFI  s bere
NOO~~~ ~ ~ ~ orO acabrdCOmic
irtiN.ationa Commitee
'  Cooedimdor Estatal   't                       '~r - ----   Iorjoo   saa                      L -------dr  slto
I       (Coordinitor)/Administrata    J,A
T     ICORN                                                                                                EI
GUERRERO                                           /MICHOACAN                                         \                 /         _         OAXACA\
v   Atmilhast3rereso ntatale ofA-- -                                                  epeett~sofA  es   epectt~so
forestcommunitiesejidos             u     an                          frestcornmanieies/eiidos g                                           forestcommuningesvjidos
*  On' representative of                                                 On  SMARAp resentti-of                                               One represenrati ve of
impEMARAent gation, inacodncMihAeRoa,   ai                                  nal n  delgtono   poiisSh N toa                          o      Mittee   willgto
elet ent                                                                  goveanment C                                                         goveatment
On. ~~~p..entati- of-~-88 
\instiuton.cdmc'i                                                            NGO or academic                 /                  \NGO or acadernic/
\   institution    /               g           \             ~~~~~~~~~~     ~       ~      ~      ~~~institutioo.  I               institu tion      
Coordinodor Estoal             :                                   t          Coordinordor Estattzl        I                          '        Coordinatdor Estatttl  
s   Atdministratdor Estotol      ,'A_______ w                                  d.i.istrstd.  Estotol.1___                       _ s            Administrodor E$ttartl 
_~~~~~~~~ _< - - - - - - - - - - -_ -                                                    _ I- ----- -             - - -                       _- _'            I _
National Committee. The National Committee is the main supervision mechanism of COfNBIO. The
Committee will resolve issues and problems and establish the general norms that govern project
implementation, in accordance with sectoral, national and donor policies. The National Committee will
select and supervise the perfonrmance of the National Coordinator and Administrator.
- 88 -



National Coordination Unit. The National Coordination Unit reports directly to the National Committee
and is responsible for coordinating the execution of the Annual Operating Plan, overseeing resource
allocation, and supervising operations carried out in the three states.
National Coordinator.  The National Coordinator is the executor of the national-level
workprogram and reports to the National Committee. The Coordinator is responsible for general
monitoring and evaluation of project progress, overseeing the process of preparing and approving the
Annual Operational Plans for the project, providing information required by the national committee
for decision-making, organizing field visits to the project area, and interacting with the Financial
Administrator.
National Administrator. The National Administrator oversees administrative and accounting issues
in the three states in close coordination with the State Coordinating Units and the financial agent.
The Administrator will be responsible for compiling the operational plans, periodic monitoimg
reports and other information to be presented to the National Coordination Unit, and for
backstopping the administrators in each state-level coordination unit.
State Committees. The State Committees are responsible for executing the project at state level. Each
State Committee will establish policies, criterias and procedures for promoting the project in the state,
selecting community proposals and ensuring the efficient operation of the project. The State Committees
will also oversee and approve the operational plans, M&E reports and other documentation sent to the
National Committee. Should it prove appropriate the committees and their coordination units may be
constituted as civil associations early in the project, as a first step towards the institutionalization of these
as more permanent entities for community conservation. NAFIN would provide full oversight of their
administrative and financial management activities, regardless of the arrangement.
State Coordination Units. The three State Coordination Units will be in charge of the activities
mentioned in the Annual Operational Plan and maintaining current financial and fiscal project information.
They will report directly to the State Committeees and the National Coordinator. The State Coordination
Units will also be responsible for promoting the project in the state, producing the Annual Operational
Plan, collaborating with beneficiaries, conducting a preliminary review of community proposals to be
presented to the State Committee, and coordinating state level activities.
State Coordinator. The State Coordinator is the executor of the project activities at state level
according to the decisions and guidelines established by the state committees. The coordinator is
hired by the Financial Adminstrator. The Coordinator is the main point of contact between the
participating communities and the project, and the liaison between COINBIO with PROCYMAF and
PRODEFOR and other project operating in the states. The Coordinator prepares the Annual
Operating Plan for discussion with the Committee, promotes the project in the state, packages the
proposals for Committee review, hiring peer reviewers as needed, ensures the flow of documents and
information, and carries out the needed monitoring and evaluation studies, and organizes the needed
training.
State Administrator. The State Administrator oversees the financial management of the state level
operations, generates all needed reports and accounting requirements, and keeps all records related to
procurement and monitoring of the approval and financial transfers for the subprojects.
- 89 -



H. Financial Agent
GEF funds would be disbursed through a private financial administrator, NAFIN. The financial
administrator would provide an accounting and administrative home to the project and act as Recipient of
the GEF grant for purposes of the grant legal agreement. Either through the agreement with the financial
administrator or as a separate means of support to the State Committees, specialists would be contracted to
train the coordination units in financial management and administration and transfer expertise regarding
foundation grant-making requirements and procedures.
The criteria used to select the financial administrator to manage GEF funds were:
*   Transparency and reputation of the institution's structure
*   Quality of the physical and human infrastructure
* Quality of the internal administrative and accounting system
*   Ability to produce financial and technical reports acceptable to the World Bank and GEF
*   Regional presence in the three states
* Experience with similar types of responsibilities with international agencies
*   Positive experience with indigenous communities
*   Interest in entering as a partner in the project
3   Amount of resources managed
The functions of the financial administrator in the project include:
*   Administer the GEF resources;
*   Generate the reports and information data bases required by the World Bank, providing information on
an as requested basis to the GEF and the World Bank;
*   Audit the use of the funds, using World Bank norms;
D   Train the national and state-level accountants in the coordination units;
*   Transfer lessons of experience to the coordinators and their clients as appropriate;
*   Maintain information regarding the subgrants;
*   Supervise the work of the coordination units and the project accountants;
*   Assure that the Operational Manual is being applied;
*   Promote and strengthen community initiatives to manage community conservation funds;
* Provide a legal authority to the state level coordination units to approve grants, transfer funds, and
procure goods and services needed by the coordination units for carrying out their duties.
- 90 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
Community Conservation and Green Venture Funds
Type D Subprojects
There is a strong demand among communities with more advanced resource management
initiatives in the project area for long-term mechanisms to finance conservation and management efforts
and to invest in green ventures that generate income while effectively reducing threats to the natural
resource base. There are a number of programs which could finance the kinds of green venture activities
which communities would wish to undertake. Fondos Empresas de Solidaridad (FONAES), a program of
SEDESOL, the social development secretariat, provides resources for small and medium enterprises
including forest product-based industries, fisheries, eco-tourism, and cultural enterprises. The
Multi-Investment Fund within the Inter-American Development Bank and Fomentos Sociales BANAMEX
have launched a US$ 8 million fund for rural and agri-business. The International Finance Corporation
(IFC) within the World Bank group has launched an Ecofund for environmental enterprises. All of these
options require demonstration of capacity to manage funds over the medium to long term and entail
investments in the order of US$ 100,000 or more. In parallel, there is a strong movement in the United
States to promote sustainable enterprises in poor urban and peri-urban communities through community
venture capital schemes, which is operating successfully in a large number of urban centers with clients
with little or no previous business experience.
COINBIO will pilot a green venture scheme as one of the subproject options which would
provide interested communities who are ready to manage their own long-term investments with a limited
amount of venture capital to enable them to learn how to manage such funds for community ventures
related to their natural resource base and existing conservation land use planning. It is expected that some
of the communities who benefit from this scheme would then become eligible for the more substantial
sources of green venture financing available in Mexico or through international environmental donors
including those described above.
Under this latter modality, communities that are ready to create a permanent fund for continued
financing of sustainable use activities and conservation areas would be eligible for a larger size grant - no
greater than US$ 50,000 - and would agree to reimburse both the amount of the grant and their own 100%
matching investment into a community account specifically established for conservation investments. Only
GEF funding would be channeled to this component.
Since this is an innovative component, and Mexico does not have experience applying this model
to indigenous communities without prior investments of this type, it was agreed that the component would
not be initiated until the second or third year of the project, and that the design would be agreed with the
World Bank as a condition of disbursement and included in the operational manual. This would give the
project coordinators a chance to evaluate possible models and select a modality appropriate to COfNBIO.
- 91 -






MAP SECTION






Additional
Annex No.: 16
MAPS
Pre-selected Eligible Communities
in Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero
-10i4                ' -iUZ  ..      .  '''-,.'-  '   OOX  ,.    '-  .    ...   - ,'  *9S'-  ,  '  96                 -94
s;S';',''.++                                                                                           +
V. ..: i    ! . .
-..r. ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     r
19 -V-    -f   ,                                    ';           <- -  -r +             p                               +,   ,
-104                   -107                    -1 0                    -9a                    9X                      -94
X* t ,              s          P~ROYECTO COINBIO 
!311if;jt<]stn ,_   f    E   EX,    3--rs            , toalirladc& pres.o>lecc'onada's
... ......   ..... 
92 -






Vegetation and Land Use
in Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero
F            ~~~~~~+             +                  +
, -, ve                  r r.
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~eeai i                                  y';ode
i '.'      .;                  - '           .     f'                 -']~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'
93-






Areas of Importance for Corridor Connectivity
in Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero
+ ~~~~.+                                                       +
+~~~~~~~~~~~
.. -- , T.,- -.- 
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;
__ _____.__                       r_-_PROYLCTO CCIN310
i________                                     F > -'> r-6-2. l  -   lrnpcrterncia parJ la cnflectv "dac
I qrt lLf<^z.;f>                             - J  ---.  i    |de] paisajc
IA~~~~4~~~I.J2.2  *lIdiOS ~ ~   Fck.:,   TI.,
| 9i j- -L 
-94-






5; . ( .- ,/Aguayc~\s-i/ta >> ( g 0WX 'MEXiCO
I~lN ~GNOUS AND:
-COMIUNIY EIOD  -ERSITY,-
CONSERVATION (COINB10)
+a>t  \ f- <5tf i ... . - . . . - - .............................. ~ I;IVIDED HtGHWAYS
-t                                                                                                                   $ t   r > 4  fg   g7   .   e3vJf   of    Mexic  ELECPED MPAIN    ROADS
g v <EX>OX                      #F         P A C IF IC  O C EA N                                          LO
I                                                                                   -+ jedse  /dJf t  .   ,   JiK  P11NCWAC AIRPORTS
0                                                               T_A his mop was prod7uced toy the M,ap Design Wnt of Thee World Bank.  0   SEtECTED CITIES AND TOWNS   _
L  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Lan hsmpan4ipy ntepr fTeWrdSnGop                                                                TT 
g    PACtFIC OCfAN   - t    \94                 ~~~~~~The boudais colors,denomintions and aytTheWrQ7<tron     @   5 TATE CAPITALSw
rn                 S~~~____________                       ju ntN   gerat on fie 1e9 S'atwsofonyterritory, r rany endorsement or  _   _--- T BOUNDARIES  -X
0S          tooO2                                           acceptance of sch boundries_
O                           STATES O E



