                         Report No. 28383 ME
                                         -7


 The InspectionPanel

                                    ~




Report and Recommendation


MEXICO: Indigenousand Community
Biodiversity Project (COINBIO) (GEF Trust
Fund Grant No. TF24372)




March 31,2004


                                   The Inspection Panel


                           Report and Recommendation
                                                On
                                  Request for Inspection


                                            Mexico:
                 Indigenous and Communities Biodiversity
ConservationProject (COINBIO) (GEFTrust FundGrant No.
                                           TF24372)


1.      On January 26, 2004, the Inspection Panel (Panel) received a Request for
        Inspection (Request) related to the above-referencedProject, dated November 25,
        2003.' On January 30, 2004, in accordance with the Resolution establishing the
        Inspection Panel (Resolution),2 the Panel notified the Executive Directors and the
        President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)3
        that it had received the Request, which constituted Registration of the Request
        under the Panel's            Operating Procedures.4 The Panel received Bank
        Management's Response to the Request on March 2, 2004 (Management
        Response).' As provided in paragraph 19 of the Resolution, the purpose of this
        report i s to determine the eligibility of the Request and make a recommendation
        to the Executive Directors as to whether the Panel should investigate the matters
        alleged inthe Request.

A. THEPROJECT

2.      The Request raises issues related to a Project financed under the Global
        Environmental Facility (GEF Trust Fund No. 24372),                          Indigenous and
        Communities Biodiversity Conservation Project (COINBIO), (hereinafter referred
        to as "the Project"). The objective of the Project i s to conserve high biodiversity


The Requestersstate that they sent the Requeste-mail onthe earlier date, but the Paneldidnot receivethe
Request.
International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment (IBRD) Resolution 93-10, TheResolution
EstablishingtheInspection Panel, (September 22, 1993).
For the purposes of this Report, the IBRDis sometimes referredto as the "Bank."
See The InspectionPanel, OperatingProcedures (August 19,1994), 117.
Bank ManagementResponseto Requestfor InspectionPanelReview of the Mexico: Indigenous and
Community Biodiversity ConservationProject (COINBIO) (GEFTrust FundGrant No. TF24372), (March
1,2004) [hereinafter ManagementResponse].


                                                                                                      1

          areas in the states of Oaxaca, Michoacan, and Guerrero, Mexico "by
          strengthening and promoting community conservation initiatives on communally-
          owned lands, building on the cultural values and traditional management
         practices that such communities have developed in relationship to the resources
          in theseareas.7'6

3.        The Project provides, inter alia, for local capacity building through the
          establishment of a State Committee in each of three states, Oaxaca, Michoacan,
          andG~errero.~The State Committees are supported by State Coordination Units,
          which include one coordinator and one administrator who are chosen by Nacional
         Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN), the grant recipient, in consultation with the relevant
          State Committee and with the national Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos
         Naturales y Pesca (Secretary of Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries -
          SEMANARP).'         Each State Committee consists of "six members (three
          representing the Communities and Ejidos, one representing SEMARNAP, one
          representing the government of the relevant Participating State, and one
          representing the relevant Participating State's non-govemmental organization
          andor academic sector).l'lo       The Project further provides for the establishment of
          a National Committee and a National Coordination Unit to coordinate project
         implementation. According to the Grant Agreement, the National Committee
         consists of, inter alia, "one Community or Ejido representative of each of the
         State Committees."I1The Project i s implemented by the State Committees andthe
          State Coordination Units and is to receive technical assistance from the National
         Forest Commission (CONAFOR), a semi- autonomous agency responsible for
         forestry issues that was created in 2001 under the Secretary of Environment and
         NaturalResources(SEMARNAT), the successor to SEMARNAP.12


 GlobalEnvironment Facility Trust FundGrant Agreement (Indigenous andCommunity Biodiversity
Project) amongNacional Financiera, S.N.C., andUnitedMexican States, andInternationalBankfor
Reconstruction andDevelopment, GEFTrust FundGrant Number TF 24372, (February 1,2001),
'[hereinafterGrant Agreement], Schedule2 (Description of the Project).
 Grant Agreement, Schedule2 (PartA).
 According to the grant agreement, Q 3.04(c) the grant recipient should "hire and thereafrer maintain
throughout Project implementationthree coordinators and three administrators (asconsultants, chosen by
the Recipient in coordination with SEMARNAP and in consultation with the relevant State Committee, to
work under terms of reference setforth in the Operational Manual)  ...."
 As defined inManagementResponse, anejido is "a land-holding consisting ofeither indigenousor non-
indigenous memberswith rights, stipulatedinlaw, incommunal resourcesunder which an individual
family has arightto an individual plot of land allocatedby communal decision as well as access to
communally owned lands (often forest lands, pastureand watercourses)." ManagementResponse, ¶lo n.3.
lo Grant Agreement, Q 3.03(a)(ii).

eachof SEMARNAP, CONANP (National ProtectedAreas Council - Consejo Nacional de Areas Naturales
   Grant Agreement, 0 3.03(a)(i). The other membersof the NationalCommittee are onerepresentativeof

Protegidas), CONABIO (National Biodiversity Use and Awareness Commission - Comisi6n Nacional para
el Conocimiento y Us0 de la Biodiversidad) and CONAF (National Technical Consultative Forestry
Council - ConsejoTBcnico Consultivo Nacional Forestal). Id.
l2In2001SEMARNAP(SecretariadeMedioAmbiente, RecursosNaturalesy Pesca Secretaryof     -
Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries) changedinto SEMARNAT (Secretariade Medio Ambiente
y RecursosNaturales- SecretaryofEnvironment andNaturalResources) "when responsibilityforBsheries
waspassed to the National Agriculture Secretariat." ManagementResponse,¶9 n.1.Inaddition, the


                                                                                                      2

4.       The COINBIO Project provides grants to communities and to ejidos to create
         community conservation areas and to carry out conservation and sustainable use
         activities.l3The Project provides for technical assistance to communities and
         ejidos to formulate, present, administer financially, and monitor projects, known
         as "Community          subproject^."'^ The Project is "demand-driven," because
         communities propose the subprojects and activities. These community subprojects
         include the following: "[e]stablishment of biodiversity conservation areas in
          Community and Ejido lands .          . . ,
                                                   "  "[dlevelopment of the information base and
         institutional framework to maintain such conservationareas, by: (a) carrying out
         conservation capacity-building activities         ...[and]  (b) strengthening conservation
         networks among Communities and Ejidos . . . [, and] [ilnvestments in such
         conservationareas and sustainable use activities           ....m15

5.       The Grant Agreement establishes that the grant recipient, Nacional Financiera,
         S.N.C. (NAFIN),"shall carry out the Project in accordance with the terms of a
         manual, satisfactory to the Bank."I6 The approval of an Operational Manual
         satisfactory to the Bank (Manual) was a condition of effectiveness of the Grant.
         Under the Grant Agreement, the Manual must provide that "the Recipient shall
         disburse proceeds under the Project only: (a) to Communities and Ejidos, with
         legal personality, in the Participating States .            . .  in support of Community
         Subprojects." Each community subproject is "(i)proposed by the Community or
         Ejido that will carry it out         . . .  (ii) cleared in writing by the SEMARNAP
         representative on the relevant State Committee .            . . [and]  (iii) approved by the
         State Committeefor the Participating State in which the Community or Ejido is
         located."17

6.       The Manual sets forth the Project's organizational structure. It specifies the
         composition and the roles of the State and National Committees andthe State and
         National Coordinators and Administrators. At the national level, the Manual
         provides that the National Administrator submit to the Bank an Annual Operative
         Program (POA), the purpose of which i s to describe the activities included inthe


NationalForestryCommission (Comisidn Nacional Forestal CONAFOR) was createdas a semi
                                                            -
autonomousagency under SEMARNAT's mandateand was given responsibility for the COINBIO andthe
PROCYMAFProjects.See id.¶9. The SecondCommunity Forestry Project (PROCYMAF 11)is aimed at
assisting indigenouscommunities and ejidos that own forests inpriority regions of Durango, Guerrero,
Jalisco, Michoacan, Oaxaca, and Quintana Roo,to improve the management and conservation of their
forest resources, andto generate alternative sources of income ina sustainablemanner. See Mexico-
Community Forestry Project, Loan4137-ME (May 2, 1997), Schedule2.
l3ManagementResponse, 110.
l4Grant Agreement, Schedule2 (PartB).
  Grant Agreement, Schedule2 (PartB).
l6Grant Agreement, 0 3.02(a); Proyecto de Conservacidnde la Biodiversidad en ComunidadesIndigenas
de 10s Estadosde Oaxaca, Michoaclny Guerrero COINBIO, Manual de Operacidn(June 7,2001)
[hereinafter OperationalManual]. The issuance of the Manual was one of the conditions of effectivenessof
the Grant Agreement. OnJune 22,2001, the Bank notified NAFJNandthe governmentof Mexico that the
Agreement becameeffective onJune 21,2001.
l7Grant Agreement, Schedule4(l)(a), (c).


                                                                                                      3

       Project and provide for their timely and effective implementation. The POA
        determines the amount/level of resources to be allocated to each State and the
       criteria for accessingthem.'* The POA requires that each State Coordination Unit
       prepare its own state operative plan, which i s first submitted to the State
       Committee for approval and then given to the COINBIOPROCYMAF liaison.
       The latter, in coordination with the National Administrator, integrates the three
        State operative plans into one POA that is submitted to the National Committee
       for its approval.

7.     The Manual establishes that the State Committees will execute and supervise the
       Project at the State level in accordance with the norms and criteria of the
       Operational Manual. According to the Manual, the State Committees define the
       selection criteria and select the sub-project proposals of the communities and
       ejidos. The State Committees are also incharge of resolving any problems arising
       inthe implementation of theProject atthe Statelevel.

8.     In evaluating the proposed subprojects, the Committees consider whether the
       communities or ejidos meet certain eligibility criteria, such as whether they are
       included in the proper registry, their willingness to participate in the Project
        activities, and whether their properties are in high biodiversity priority areas
       identified during Project design. The areas must not be the subject of boundary
       conflicts. The State Committees also verify that the proposed subprojects do not
       fall within a number of restrictions (e.g. the subproject promotes conversion of
       natural habitats), that they promote the creation of new conservation areas or the
       strengthening of existing ones, and that they meet additional criteria, such as
       feasibility and sustainability."

9.     If the State Committee approves the proposal, the Manual requires that two
        agreements be concluded:         the Participation Agreement          (Convenio    de
       Participacibn) and the Disbursement Agreement (Convenio de Derivacih de
       Fondos).     Both are concluded between the relevant communitylejido and the
       Grant recipient, NAFIN. The first agreement establishes the basis, mechanisms
       and participatory actions necessary to support and manage the conservation areas.
       The latter determines the obligations of the parties and the terms for disbursement
       of funds to carry out the subproject.

10.    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Project i s to be
       implemented in "highly biodiverse priority areas," which include "1,300
       communities within the biological zones of the three States            . . . .``20 The
       communities have been identified through a participatory social assessment
       process and, over the life of the Project, "300 communities and ejidos" are



  OperationalManual, Q 4.1.
l9See OperationalManual, Q 4.4.
2oWorld Bank, ProjectAppraisal Documenton aProposedGlobalEnvironmentFacilityGrant, Indigenous
andCommunityBiodiversity ConservationProjectinMexico (October 31,2000) [hereinafterPAD], 7.


                                                                                            4

          community within the 1,300 is eligible topresentproposals to theproject...9
          expected to come forward to participate in project activities, although "any
                                                                                          ,21


B. FINANCING

 11.      The Project i s financed by a Global Environmental Facility (GEF) grant, with
          resources of SDR5.8 million (about US$7.5 million).22The GEF grant i s formal1
          treated as incremental resources to the IBRD-financed PROCYMAF Project.            2
          The total Project cost i s estimated at US$18.7 million. The recipient of the GEF
          grant i s Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (National Financial Agency - NAFIN).The
          GEFGrant proceedsdo not cover the taxes on goods and services connected with
          the COINBIO Project. Rather they must be paid from other funds, for example,
          from CONAFOR funds.24

12.       The Board of Executive Directors approved the GEF-financed Project on
          November 28,2000. The legal agreements were signed on February 1,2001, and
          became effective on June 6,2001. The closing date for the Grant i s June 30,2008.

C. THEREQUEST

13.       The Request was submitted by members of the Comiti Estatal de COINBIO
          Oaxaca (the Project's State Committee for Oaxaca) representing the regions of
          Yautepec-Istmo and Costa Sur, the Secretary of the Project's Natural Resources
          Committee representing Yautepec-Itsmo, and the Chief, Office of the
          Commissioner (Presidente del Comisariado) of I x t l h de Juiuez in Sierra Norte,
          who claim that they represent the communities living in the regions of Yautepec-
         Itsmo, Costa Sur, and Istlande Juarez inSierra Norte, all inthe state of Oaxaca.

14.      The Requesters state that "[als a result of a participatory process of project
          design, involving communities, environmental organizations, academia, and
          governments, the following was decided with respect to the project: (i) the
          community should be actively involved in decisions and should be givenflexibility
          in terms of modzjjing the criteria for project operation; and (ii) technical and
         strategic supervision by the Government should be kept at a minimum, in order to
         ensure institutionalization of the community conservationmodel."

15.      According to the Request, the Bank has violated its policies and procedures on
         project supervision and indigenous peoples because it has proposed a
         restructuring of the COINBIO Project without involving the State Committees. In


21 PAD,7-8.
22 Grant Agreement, 0 2.01.
23 According to thePADfor the COINBIO Project, community project proposalsunder the COINBIO
wouldbe channeled to PROCYMAF when they are appropriatefor its financing, while GEFfunding would
target areas not receivingfinancing from other sources. SeePAD, 8.
24 According to ManagementResponse, CONAFOR agreed in 2002 to financethe taxes on goods and
services for the COINBIO Project from its own resources. ManagementResponse, ¶9.


                                                                                               5

    the Requesters' view, the restructuring proposal entails that the State Committees
    will be stripped of their powers in order to revert to a vertical structure, rather
    than the horizontal decision-making approach used so far, as required by the
    Bank's Indigenous Peoplespolicy and the Grant Agreement. They also claim that
    the Bank violated its policies by giving its approval, on a "no objection" basis, to
    the removal of the State Coordinators for Oaxacaand Guerrero without consulting
    the State Committees, as requiredby the legal agreement.

16. The Requestersbelieve that their rightshavebeen adversely affected as a result of
    the Bank's breach of the agreement. They state that they do not agree with the
    "unjustiJciedremoval" of the Coordinators of the States of Oaxaca and Guerrero
    and that the way in which it was done has created an environment of uncertainty
    inthe regions where the Project is being implemented. The Requestersclaim that
    the Bank bears responsibility for this situation becausethe Bank has supported the
    removal of the State Coordinators and their replacement with Coordinators of the
    PROCYMAF Project (also financed by the Bank) which i s unrelated to
    COINBIO. The Requesters state that they requestedthe removal of the National
    Coordinator, because they view him as "persona non grata" among the people,
    and the reinstatement of the State Coordinators because, in their opinion, the
    removal of the two State Coordinators had violated the legal agreements. They
    addthat onNovember 5,2003, ina meeting with Bankofficials, "it was agreed         ...
    that the World Bank would authorize the `no objection' for the reinstatement of
    our coordinator, in view of the fact that his [sic] removal constituted an
    irregularity. However, afew days after the meeting, thesepersonsfailed to honor
    the agreements."

17. The Request claims that "the violation of the process has led the beneficiary
    communities tofear that the project currently underway will not be continued or
    that the rules of operation goveming the project will be changed and money for
    the project given directly to service providers rather than to communities, as has
    been the case sofar."

18. The Request alleges that the Bank has proposed modifying the Project so as "to
    divest the State Committees of their authority and vest the national coordinator

    precise instructions to Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. ... to implement them as soon
    withfull powers.'' It also states that the Bank proposed these changes and "gave

    as possible, arguing that this action did not require a legal amendment." The
    Requestersstate that they have actively participated in the COINBIO meetings in
    Oaxaca to outline the strategies, which have then been developed through the
    State Committees, but fear that in the future their views will not be taken into
    account .

19. Inits Notice of Registration, the Panelnotedthat the above claims may constitute
    violations by the Bank of various provisions of the following operational Policies
    andProcedures:




                                                                                       6

        OD 4.20                Indigenous People
        OD/OP/BP 13.05         Project Supervision

D.      MANAGEMENTRESPONSE

20.     Before focusing on the specific claims included in the Request for Inspection,
        Management addresses what it calls "Special ZSSU~S."~The Response describes
                                                                    ~
        the participatory nature of the Project, explains how rural communities inMexico
        are organized, provides the historical background of the COINBIO Project andthe
        Project's organizational structure, and in so doing focuses on the role of the
        indigenous communities.26Management further addresses "Compliance with OD
        4.20, Indigenous Peoples" duringthe Project preparati~n~~and anal zes the issue
        of "Compliance with OD 13.05 and OPBP 13.05, Supervision."2HThe Special
        Issues section also includes a part called "Zmplementation Issues9'29 where
        Management deals with the specific Requesters' claims. These claims are
        analyzedindetail inAnnex 1to Management Response.

21.     With respect to the requirements of OD 4.20 in the Project preparation, the
        Response asserts that the "Project design incorporates the requisite elements of
        an ZPDP [Indigenous Peoples Development Plan]           ." The Project Appraisal
        Document (PAD) has been regarded "in its entirety" as an IPDP given that 80
        percent of the people affected by the Project are indigenous peoples.30 The
        Responseemphasizes that the Project preparation "benefitedfrom intensivesocial
        assessment" and that' "[mlany meetings were held with indigenous communities
        and groups of leaders to develop the project design, which incorporated local
       pattems of community govemance and traditional leadership               . . . .$ 6 3 1

       Management adds that the current and the past Task Team Leaders (TTL)of this
       Project are anthropologists with experience with indigenous peoples in Mexico
        and that the grant recipient, NAFIN, has ensured that community traditions were
       respected by fostering participation of community representatives in various
       decisions regarding the Project.

22.    Management believes that the COINBIO Project implementation i s incompliance
       with OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples. Management claims that the representatives
       of the forest communities "have participated actively in decision-makingfor the
       Project in the threeparticipating States" and that, to date, "93 sub-projects (16 in
       Guerrero, 42 in Oaxaca and 35 in Michoacan) have been approved by the State
       Committeesand have receivedfinancingfrom the GEF Grant."32


2s ManagementResponse, § IV.
26 ManagementResponse, ¶17-25.
27 ManagementResponse, T26.
28ManagementResponse, ¶41-44.
29ManagementResponse, ¶27-40.
30ManagementResponse, ¶26.
31ManagementResponse, Y26.
32ManagementResponse, Annex 1,ClaimNo. 1, 17.


                                                                                          7

23.    As to Project supervision, Management states that, since June 2001, "eight
       supervision missions have been undertaken, jointly with supervision of the
      PROCYMAF Project...yy33      In addition, as the Grant Agreement requires, NAFIN
       has submitted Progress Reports and Annual Reviews on Project Implementation.
      Management acknowledges some problems inProject implementation, such as the
       late hiring of a National Co~rdinator,~~ but claims that, since mid-2002, "actions
       were taken to improve Project Implementationand achieve compliance with the
       GEF Grant Agreement."35 According to the Response, the Bank proposed
       measures to improve Project implementation and conducted "more intensive
       supervision [that] led to changes in the status quo of the Project, which, in tum,
       caused apprehension and resistance by the State Coordinators of Oaxaca and
       Guerrero and some members of the State Committeeof Oaxa~a."~~

24.   According to the Response, however, the Project i s "two years behind schedule;
       targetsfor sub-projects have not been met and implementation has not yet begun
      for some components." Moreover, Management Response notes that although it
       was expected that the earliest beneficiaries of the Project would be the
      communities of the Sierra Norte in Oaxaca where the Project was conceived and
       where the levels of community organization are high, ninety-one percent of the
       communities in all three states that submitted subproject proposals and secured
       fundingwere "those with low organizational capacity."37In response, discussions
       are being held with the Project stakeholders, including the State Coordinators, to
       improve Project management and bring the Project into compliance with the
       Grant Agreement.38

25.     With respect to the allegation that a restructuring of the Project has been
      proposed without consulting local communities, Management states that "as of
       October 2003, discussions had not yet advanced to the stage of specific
       restructuring proposals to be considered by the State Committees," and, as of
      March 30, 2004, no restructuring has taken place. Management also claims that
       the discussions that may lead to modifying the Project have involved the
      community representatives and "will continue to involve systematic consultation
       with Project  stakeholder^."^^

26.   As to the Requesters' claimthat the State Coordinators from Oaxaca and Guerrero
      have been removed without consulting the State Committees, Management
       asserts that NAFIN, following a number of events described below, "considered
      that it was in the best interest of theproject to terminate the contracts of the State


_ _ _ ~

33ManagementResponse,¶42.
34ManagementResponse,¶46. For more informationabout the hiring of a nationalcoordinatorsee infra
¶30.
35ManagementResponse,¶43.
36ManagementResponse,¶43.
37ManagementResponse,¶29.
38ManagementResponse,Annex 1, ClaimNo. 1, 17.
39ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Claim No. 1, 18.


                                                                                                8

        Coordinators of Oaxaca and Guerrero."40As a result, NAFIN requested the
        Bank to give its "no objection" to a mutually agreed separation document, which
        the Bank issued on July 29, 2003. However, since the two State Coordinators
        rejected the separation document, NAFIN notified them of "the termination of
        their contracts in accordance with Section 11of the original labor contracts" and

        terms of reference for State coordinator^.^^
        gave as reasons a proposed restructuring of the Project and the change of the
                                                               Management states that "the Bank
        did not review or provide a no objection to the July 30, 2003 termination letters."
        Itlearnedabout the terminations inearly August andwas formally notifiedof the
        termination of the State Coordinators' contracts on August 28, 2003.42

 27.    Management claims that the decision to remove the Coordinators for Oaxaca and
        Guerrero was basedupon "atrack record consisting of: (a) poor management of
        their responsibilities as State Coordinators, resulting in low project pe@ormance
        levels; (b) bias in the administration of Project resources with regards to
        individuals, communities and sub-regions; and (c) activities that were considered
        to be undermining and confrontational.J943 The Response cites a number of
        examples as justifying the termination: retention by both Coordinators of
        individual members on the State Committees although their mandates as
        community representatives had expired,44 and inviting ```guests' of their
        choosing" to participate and vote in the Committee Meetings while excluding
        others, and, in Oaxaca, calling a large number of meetings that resulted in
        substantial operating

 28.    According to Management, the termination of the State Coordinators of Oaxaca
        and Guerrero i s lawful under Mexican law.46Management states, however, that
        although the Grant Agreement may be interpreted as not expressly requiringprior
        consultation for such contract termination, it believes that `>prior consultation by
        NAFIN with the State Committeeswould have been the most appropriate course
         faction."^^    Management also agrees with the Requesters that the removal of the
        Coordinators has created an atmosphere of uncertainty regarding the Project.48
        The Independent Evaluation of the Project, begun inNovember 2003 andreceived
        by the Bank on February 10, 2004, also characterized the termination of the
        Coordinators as "poorly executed and poorly explained.1249 However, the
        Response emphasizes that the Independent Evaluation indicates that "the State

~~         ~




   ManagementResponse, ¶35.
41 The Panel was informedthat there were no specific proposals yet.
42 ManagementResponse, Annex 1,Claim No: 2, 18.
43 ManagementResponse, Annex 1,Claim No. 2, 18.
44 ManagementResponse, ¶34. According, to Management, while this practice may foster continuity, it is
"contrary to the Operational Manual (Section 7.4)and to the traditional rotation of key positions in
indigenous communities." Managementadds that this practice "reducesaccountability because, once their
terms expire, such representativesare no longer accountableto their home communities."
45 ManagementResponse, ¶34.
46 Management Response, Annex 1, Claim No. 2, 18.
47 Management Response, Annex     1,Claim No.2, 19.
48 ManagementResponse, Annex 1,Claim No. 3, 19.
49ManagementResponse, ¶38.


                                                                                                      9

        Coordinators of Oaxaca and Guerrero took an anti-institutional approach to the
        Project, choosing to build up their ownpersonal status vis-&vis the communities,
        leading to the present crisis.'750 Management thus considers that removing the
        Coordinators was "appropriate.     '"'
29.     Management claims that, after the termination of the State Coordinators, a group
        of community representatives from Oaxaca sent various letters to Mexican
        officials alleging that the Bank intended to restructure the Project without public
        consultation. This also prompted correspondence from a "number of individuals
        in Oaxaca to various parties," including the Bank's Country Director for
        Mexico?2Management states that, because the Bank's responses to these letters
        "elicited abusive replies from one of the Requestors,'' the Bank "made the
        decision to await the results of the Independent Evaluation process that began in
       November 2003 rather than continue exchanges of correspondence.1s3

30.    The Response claims that, contrary to what the Requesters maintain, there i s "no
        proposal from any party to subordinatethe COINBIO Project to the PROCYMAF
       Project,'' although the GEF Grant resources are formally linked to the IBRD loan
       for the PROCYMAF Project.54 Management states that during the past year
       concerns were raised among Mexican officials in SEMARNAT and CONAFOR
       over, inter alia, the potential for overlap between various CONAFOR forestry
       programs, including COINBIO and PROCYMAF, remuneration differences and
       rivalries between different project staff groups, and confusion over multiple
       funding sources. Officials also discussedthe possibility that PROCYMAF staff
       could help promote the COINBIO Project among indigenous c~mmunities.~~
       Management claims that the State Coordinators who were terminated were
        "privy" to these matters, but never raised the issue presented in the Request for
       Inspection inmeetings with Bank staff.56

31.    Management also discusses issues related to the appointment of the National
       Coordinator, as provided by the Grant Agreement. The Response clarifies that in
       early 2001, in an effort to reduce administrative costs, the Bank, NAFIN, and
       SEMARNAT considered distributing the functions of the National Coordinator
       among the State Coordinators, the newly created liaison for the COINBIO and the
       PROCYMAF Projects, and others.57NAFIN agreed to this change. As a result,

       National Coordinator . . . in accordance with the procedure of OD 13.05, para
        "the Effectiveness Letter dated June 21, 2001, waived the condition requiring a

       34." Management adds that "[a]n amendment to the GEF Grant Agreement


   ManagementResponse,¶38. Managementindicatesthat the Bankacceptedthereportpreparedby the
independentconsultants. Id. at¶37.
51 ManagementResponse,Annex 1, ClaimNo.2, 19.
52 ManagementResponse,  Y36.
53 ManagementResponse,¶36.
54 ManagementResponse,Annex 1,ClaimNo. 4,20.
55 ManagementResponse,Annex    1, ClaimNo. 4,20.
   ManagementResponse,Annex 1, ClaimNo. 4,20,21.
57 ManagementResponse,¶27.


                                                                                          10

        reflecting this change was not prepared at the time.               However, Management
        noted that "[plroject experience showed that because of this change, the
        COINBZOProject lacked clear leadership [and] [tlhe State Coordinators did not
        have guidance in sha ing their respective programs nor a clear strategy for
        resource allocation.'J'       This acknowledgement led to a decision to fill the
        position of National Coordinator, who was appointed in January 2003.
        Management maintains, however, that "[nlo proposal has been made to `divest
        the State Committeesof their authority and vest the national coordinator withfull
        powers,"' as the Request alleges.60

32.     Finally, Management maintains that the decision to remove the State Coordinators
        i s an issue of labor contracts and pertains to NAFIN, not to the Bank. Thus, in
        Management's view, the issues raised in the Request "do not constitute a
        violation of Bank policy. " Management concludes by stating that the draft
        minutes of the November 5, 2003 meeting where the Bank allegedly agreed to
        reinstate the removed State Coordinators for Oaxaca and Guerrero were broadly
        circulated before the Bank could review them. Management states that "on
        November 17,2003, the two Bank stafswho had been present at the meeting sent
        a letter to NAFINcopied to members of the State Committeecorrecting erroneous
        statements contained in the Minutes regarding the Bank's commitments.""

E.      ELIGIBILITY

33.     The Panel must determine whether the Request satisfies the eligibility criteria for
        an Inspection, as set forth in the 1993 Resolution establishing the Panel and the
        1999 Clarifications, and recommend whether the matter alleged in the Request
        should be investigated.

34.     The Panel has reviewed the Request and Management's Response. The Panel
        Chairperson, Professor Edith Brown Weiss, together with Panel member Ms.
        Maartje van Putten andExecutive SecretaryEduardo Abbott, visited Mexico from
        March 3 through March 9, 2004. During their visit, the Panel members met with
        the Requesters, federal and state government officials, representatives of NAFIN,
        CONAFOR, PROCYMAF, COINBIO, and local and international NGOs. The
        Panelalso interviewed World Bankstaff responsible for this Project.




___

58ManagementResponse, T27.
59ManagementResponse, T28.
  ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Claim No. 5,2 1.
  ManagementResponse, Annex 13. The letter states, for example, that contrary to the agreement
containedinthe minutes, the Bankrepresentativesat the meeting made "no commitment whatsoever
regarding either the dismissal of COINBIO NationalCoordinator or the rehiring of the former State
Coordinator of Oaxaca." Ratherthey informedthe committee that this is an "issue of NAFIN's concern."


                                                                                                    11

35.      The Panel i s satisfied that the Request meets all of the eligibility criteria provided
         in the 1993 Resolution and paragraph 9 of the 1999 Clarifications, with one
         important exception as notedbelow.62

36.      Duringthe visit, the Panel confirmed that the Requesters andother signatories of
         the Request are legitimate parties under the Resolution to submit a Request for
         Inspection to the Inspection Panel. They have a common interest and common
         concerns andreside inthe Borrower's territory, as requiredinParagraph9(a).

37.      The Panel notes that the Request "assert[s]in substance that a serious violation
         by the Bank of its operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have
         material adverse efSect upon the requesters." The Request alleges that no
         consultation with the State Committees has taken place with respectto the Bank's
         proposed restructuring of the COINBIO Project and the removal of the State
         Coordinators for Oaxaca and Guerrero. The Requesters assert that this constitutes
         a violation of Bank policies and procedures on indigenous peoples and
         supervision and has had a significant adverse effect on the Requesters' rights, as
         required by paragraph 9(b). However, the Panel notes that in the context of this
         Request, the alleged violation and material adverse effect need further
         consideration, as provided below.

38.      The Panel i s satisfied that the Request "does assert that its subject matter has
         been brought to Management's attention and that, in the Requesters' view,
         Management hasfailed to respond adequately demonstrating that it hasfollowed
         or is taking steps tofollow the Bank's policies and procedures." The Requesters
         state that although they submitted their complaints to Bank officials with letters
         signed by the Requesters in their capacity as community representatives and by
         communal andmunicipal authorities, they didnot receive a positiveresponse. The
         Requesters believe that the Bank's response i s "unsatisfactory" because they
         allege that Bank officials have put their "personal opinion ahead of the explicit
         request of the State Committee         ... . "A number of letters exchangedbetween the
         Requesters and the Bank are attached to the Request for Inspection submitted to
         the Panel. Hence, the Requestmeets the requirement of Paragraph9(c).



  Paragraph9 of the 1999Clarifications mentionscertain "technical eligibility criteria" that mustbe met by
arequestfor inspection:
(a) The affectedparty consists of two or morepersons with common interestsor concernsand who are in
    the borrower's territory.
(b) The requestdoes assert insubstancethat a seriousviolation by the Bankof its operationalpolicies and
    procedureshas or is likely to have a material adverseeffect on the requester.
(c) The requestdoes assert that its subject matterhasbeenbrought to Management's attention and that, in
    the requester's view, Managementhas failed to respondadequatelydemonstratingthat it has followed
    or is taking steps to follow the Bank's policies andprocedures.
(d) The matteris not related to procurement.
(e) The relatedloanhas not beenclosedor substantially disbursed.
(f) ThePanelhasnotpreviously madearecommendationonthe subjectmatter, or, ifithas, thatthe
   requestdoes assert that there i s new evidenceor circumstancesnot knownat the time of the prior
   request.


                                                                                                        12

39.    The Panel notes that the subject matter is not related to procurement, as required
       byparagraph9(d).

40.    The expected closing date of the related Grant i s June 30, 2008. Only about 25
       percent of the Grant had been disbursed as of the date the Requestwas filed. The
       Requesttherefore satisfies the requirement inparagraph 9(e) that the related Grant
       has not beenclosed or substantially disbursed.

41.    Furthermore, the Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the subject
       matter of the Request.Therefore, the Requestsatisfies paragraph9(f).

42.    The Panel, however, wishes to draw attention to the special circumstances of this
       Request and to address in detail the criterion in paragraph 9(b) relating to a
       serious violation by the Bank of its operational policies and procedures which has
       or i s likely to have material adverse effect upon the Requesters.

43.    Duringits visit to Mexicoduringthe eligibility phase, the Panelwas struck by the
       widespread enthusiasm about the COINBIO Project and by the fear of many that
       the Project would be cancelled in Oaxaca or its administrative/managerial
       arrangement substantially changed. These people fear that as a result of the
       conflict that arose over the termination of the State Coordinator and the proposed
       restructuring of the Project, such changes would occur in terms that would be
       detrimental to the Project's beneficiaries. The people of these communities
    '  repeatedly stressed to the Panel that the Project was of great importance to them
       because it was driven by their needs and priorities and their definition of
       conservation. Thus, the Panel notes the importance of continuing the Project and
       findinga way to overcome thepresentdifficulties.

44.    As noted above, the PAD states that "[wlith respect to the Bank's Zndigenous
       Peoples' [sic] Policy, O.D. 4.20, the entire project is regarded as an Zndigenous
       Peoples Development Plan [IPDP] since the majority of the project beneficiaries
       (80%) are indigenous peoples.''63 The Bank policy's strategy on indigenous
       peoples fully applies to this Project. This policy states that "issuespertaining to
       indigenous peoples must be based on the informed participation of the
       indigenouspeoples themselves. Thus, identifying local preferences through direct
       consultation [and] incorporation of           indigenous knowledge into project
       approaches     ...are core activitiesfor any project that afsects indigenouspeoples
       and their rights to natural and economic resources (emphasis in ~riginal)."~~
       Consistent with this principle, the policy requires that, inter alia, "[pllanning
       should encourage early handover of project management to local people. ""The
       Panel i s impressed by the degree of participationby indigenous communities and
       ejidos in the decision-making process provided under the Project's current
       structure. The Panel witnessed the high level of interest of local communities in


63PAD, 26.
64OD4.20, ¶8.
65OD4.20, ¶14(f).


                                                                                        13

        the management and execution of this Project, and i s therefore concerned about
        the issuesthat are at the root of the Requestfor Inspection.

45.     The Panel inquired about the problems underlying the Request for Inspection and
        the relationship with the Bank's compliance with its own policies andprocedures.
        There are two main issues, as acknowledged in Management's Response. The
        first concerns the Bank's supervision of the Project and its participation in the
        managerial decisions regarding the Project. The second refers to the Requesters'
        concern about the future structure of the Project and their perception that their
        participation in decision-making and project implementation would be
        substantially reduced as a result of a restructuring of the current implementation
        arrangement    .

46.     After lengthy conversations with all the                           the Panel observed that
        the Bank's supervision of the Project appears to have been inadequate in certain
        respects, especially since the Project i s concerned with indigenous peoples.
        Several problems with the execution of the Project were not addressed in an
        effective and timely matter. These problems ranged from the lack of essential
        supplies for Oaxaca's coordination unit to perform its duties, such as a vehicle to
        reach indigenous communities and office materials and equipment (e.g. a
        computer) to carry out daily functions, to organizational shortcomings that
        resulted in disputes among stakeholders. The Bank staff`s rather rigid position
        regarding the tenure and requestedreinstatement of State Coordinators when the
        local stakeholders were trying to reach a compromise and temporary solution
        seems to have compounded the problems.67The Panel understands that Bank
        Management i s now trying to resolve this matter in a manner that i s satisfactory
        both to the Requesters and to Federal andState authorities. A satisfactory solution
        can only be reached with meaningful consultation and participation of all
        stakeholders.

47.     An issue of broader concern to the Panel is the proposed restructuring of the
        Project and the Project's future implementation. The Project i s especially
        important, because at its core it i s "demand-driven by communities"68and ejidos.
        The State and National Committees responsible for decision-making and sub-
        project implementation are composed of representatives of participating
        comm~nities.~~Sub-projects are identified by participating communities and

        directly to the local en ti tie^.^' Although the State Committees and Coordinators
        ejidos and proposed by these groups to the State Committees; grants are given

        formally supervise implementation of the projects, the primary responsibility for
        implementing the projects i s with the communities and ejidos. To illustrate the


~~




  See9[ 33 of this Report.
67The Bankrefusedto provide a "no-objection'' to the rehiringof the terminatedstate coordinatorin
Oaxaca, after NAFINagreedindiscussionswith the State Committeeto consider it.
68PAD, 27; see also ManagementResponse,   ¶lo.
6qPAD, 27.
'OPAD,9,28.


                                                                                                  14

         community focus of the Project, each of the four types of sub-project grants
         established by the Project71 has a "community counterpart requirement," a
         stipulation that a certain percentage of the total cost of the sub-project i s required
         to be furnished by the community through in-kind contributions of labor, travel,
         and participation in training and meetings.72 In sum, as noted in the PAD, "The
         entire project is structured around the ongoing participation and monitoring by
         theproject beneficiaries themselves, through state and national level coordinating
         committees, ongoing evaluations and local-level decision makingfor sub-projects
         by participating communitiesand e j i d ~ s . " ~ ~

48.       Until now no changes have been made to the original Project framework. As
         described above, the framework has involved the active participation of
         indigenous communities (through three representatives in the State Committees)
         inthe definition of the COINBIO work program andinthe selection andapproval
         of individual subprojects to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant.
         Since Management has stated clearly that the Project constitutes an IPDP, any
         amendments that would be detrimental to the active and "informed participation
         of the indigenous peoples themselves" would be contrary to stated Bank policies
         and procedures.

49.      At the time the Request was filed and when the Panel made its visit to Mexico to
         determine eligibility, Bank Management had presented no specific proposals for
         changes in or restructuring of the Project. However, thereafter from March 17 to
         19, 2004, a Strategic Planning Workshop on the COINBIO Project was held in
         the state of Michoacan to consider the findings of the independent project
         evaluation      and the     "ways       to   strengthen    project   implementati~n."~~
         Representatives of the communities in the States of Guerrero, Michoacan and
         Oaxaca participated in the Workshop, including some of the Requesters. The
         Workshop led to specific proposals for changes to the Project, several of which
         could require restructuring the Project. According to Bank Management,
         participants considered and reached general consensus in a concluding plenary
         session on fourteen preliminary recommendations regarding Project changes and
         restructuring. These emerged from three working groups during the Workshop.
         The recommendations concern the State Committees, the National Committee,
         the National and State Coordinators and Project admini~tration.~~The
         recommendations are being submitted to the State Committees for further
         consideration, who are to consult with the natural resources committees within the
         State.    According to Bank Management, the intent i s for the three State
         Committees to reach common agreement on recommended changes and
         restructuring.


71 See generally PAD, 9-10.
72 PAD, 9-10.
73 PAD, 29.
74
''BackThe
        to Office Report, March25,2004.
   Id.     Minutes of the Workshop muststill be approvedbyparticipants. The Panelthus does not
include the detailed recommendationsinits Report.


                                                                                               15

50. The Panel notes the positive steps that have been taken since the Panel's
    eligibility visit to Mexico at the beginning of March.        These include Bank
    Management's effort to address personnel issues, the participation of community
    representatives in the Strategic Workshop, including several Requesters, and the
    intent to obtain approval of State Committees to proposedchanges in the Project.
    The Panel, however, remains very concerned about ensuring that the voices of
    disaffected community people are heard throughout the process and that the
    restructuring reflects the desires of the communities and does not lose the
    demand-driven approachto national top-down coordination. The Panel hopes that
    the remarkable nature of the Project, which respects the needs and desires of
    indigenous communities, will be maintained and improved as a result of
    restructuring and change, not dissipated.

F.  CONCLUSIONS

51. The Request and Management Response contain conflicting assertions and
    interpretations about the issues, the facts, and compliance with Bank policies and
    procedures. In this case, however, several considerations apply. With regard to
    the Requesters claim regarding the termination of the State Coordinators,
    Management has already admitted that the procedures for terminating the
    coordinators were inadequate and has committed in discussion to remedying its
    participation in the Project. An investigation on this issue, which could be a
    rather lengthy process, might not contribute to the appropriate and speedy
    resolution of the State Coordinator problem and other personnel issues raised by
    the Requesters.

52. Onthe other hand, the Panelcontinues to be very concernedthat arestructuring of
    the Project not be detrimental to the interests of the indigenous communities.
    Because the specific proposals for Project changes and restructuring have
    emergedonly duringthe Workshop inmid-March after the Request was filed and
    since Bank Management has committed to having the State Committees consent
    to Project restructuring or other changes, the Panel believes that an investigation
    would not be the best course of action at this time. Since the Panel i s not makinga
    recommendation on this issue, the Requestersmay still have recourse to the Panel
    if they consider there are serious violations of Bank policies and procedures
    causing material adverse effect which are based on specific acts or omissions of
    the Bank relating to restructuring and implementation of the Project. In this
    event, the Panel may recommend an investigation to the Board of Executive
    Directors.

53. Inlightof the foregoing andinfairness to all the parties concerned, the Panel
    cannot take a positionat this time on whether the Requestmerits an investigation
    and awaits further developments.




                                                                                      16

Annex 1


4



I_.__--




           FYI
           %-

       k



? '



.:




t

I .


3

n


     .-:,




   f
   i
   .i    .

   i




. . . .
  .        . %




 ..        ..1I
             i
             i
       '




.'# .
  i $La




      . .




     -1




  .. .


\\



   '-


 *'a

'i)

c.c.~.Lic. Xochiti Gnlvez Presidentede laComisi6nNacianalparaup! Desarrol!~de 10s
                               .
Pueblos !ndigenas. Mismofin.
c.c.p. tic. Victor Lkhthger. Secrstarb de Medio Ambienfey RecursosNaturales.
Mi"         fin.
c.c,p. Biol. Raid Enrique Arriaga EZecerra,Subsecretario deGcstiBn para In ProtecciCin
/"ental.
c,c.p. Lk.Alberto Cdrdenas. Director Generalde la ComisibnNacionai Foresiai.
~ i s i r r ofin.
C.C.P.   tic. Titnofeo E l h t Harris. Directorde Financiamientosfntcniacionales.Mismo
fin.
c.c,p. Dr. Isabel 6uerrero. Representantedel Banco Mundialen MeSxico. M h o fin.
c.c.~.lng. Josd Laris Bustamantedel Vdle. Director del Instihito Estatalde Ecologia.
Mismofi?l.
C.C.P.   Biol. David Ortegadel Valle. Delegado Federalde la Semarmt en Oaxaca.
Mismofin.
c.c.p. Cornit6E~&I de Guerrero. ~ i s m fin.    o
C.C.P. Coinitc!Estatal de Michoacin. Misrrio fin.
C.C.P. Lic. Arturo Escobedo de      la Peeiia.Nacional FinanciersS.I\I.G.
c.c.p. Dr. Gerardo Segura. CoodinadorNacionnlde Proaymaf.
C.G.P. Ing. FrernGisco Chsayela.  CoordinadorNacionalde C        Q     ~  ~  ~   I  ~




   i




.;...



3,3

iIi




I



 i     n




. .


 !




                                           %*
                      ACTA   ~~~~~§~~~~~~~~~ A         LA
                                                              ~~~~~~~
                      Q       ~ No. 33,~DEL DfA~5 DE 4hB110 DEEA2003,
                                                        ~                   ~   ~   ~
                      DEL COUiT&$ E$TATAL      DEL    ~~~Y~~~~
                      ~   ~   ~                                        ~DE ~~
                                                                       EM
                      ~~~~~~~A~~~  ~~~~~~~~§ OAXACA(
                                       DE ~LAEN~~~~~~V~~~~~~~I
                                       ~            A    C
                                                                     ~ ~      ~ 5 ~  ~

   ENTRE NACIONAL FINANCIERA,'S.N.C. Y LA M.C. TZINPliA CARRANZA L&'EZ,
   Y MtENTRAS TANTO, ELM SiGA EN SUS FUNCIONES NORMALES DE
  COORDiNADORADEL PROYECTOEN EL ESTADO, MASTA QUE SE HAGA UNA
   EVALUACldNINTEGRAL DEL PROYECTO EN OAXACA, Y HASTA ENTONCES,
  TOMAR DECfSlONESSOBRE LO QUE SEA PROCEDENTE,R FIN DE MEJORAR
   0, EFECTMDAO EN EL DESEMPEfiQ DE TODOS 10s ACTORES
   INVOLUCRADOSEN ELMISMO.

2. EL. LIC. ARTURQ ESCOBEDO DE u\.PEfdA, §E COMQIROMETE QUE EN EL
  TRANSCURSO DE ESTA SEMAVA DARA UNA RESPUESTA AL COMIY'C,
   DESPUgS DE CONSULTAR CON El: AREA JURiDICA DE NA.C!ONAL
   FINANCIERA S.N.C.

                r-
              \-




Blot. DB'




             P




                     c

                    : b e

                                                       Ug



                                 Prayeclo de Cunscrvacion de la
                                 Biodiversidad por Comuiiidades

     FkaGB

         c




      El proycclo COINBIO

      a. EI prnyocto dq Corlsorvacidn de la Biotiivcrsidad pot cmiiiiiidadcs
          indigonas de 10s osladus dr: Guorrero, Miclinacfin y Oaxaca, opcra en
          Iw6xico medijlnfe el convenio de donaciox, del Fondo Mundial para el Mcdro
          Ainbieiite (GEF, pro S ~ J Ssiylas en ingl6s) nt'"ro  TF021.372 do fccha 2 de
t         febrero de 2001. Confarmc a dicho convenio, GEF aporta al Gohicitlo de
          Mfjxico 7.5 miliones de d6iares como dotiaci6n, a traves del' Bancn




      b.




      c. Confornie ai contrato de donaciijn, el tiempo c      i cjecucihi de! iJr0yCCiU E::
                                                                ~
          desde el 1 de Fehrera de 2001 Iiasta ef 30 de Junio de 2008. Es tlccir, el
          yroyecta iJeva ~ G aiios rile ope!acidn 3 aprtixiiiinriarrtente %R% tiel ~ ~ V B I I C ~ ?
                              S
          en tiempo.

d Conforme a la cii4usuia 3.01(a) del coiiveni6"de cionacion, RlAFlN se obliya
  a ejecutar el prc;yeclo con la asistencia de SEMARNAT. SEMARNAT ha
  encomendado esa responsabilidad ai Procyinaf de la CONAFOI?. Confornie
  a la cthsuta 3.03(a) del conwenio, SEMARNAT sc corripromote a formar y
  mailtetier opcraildo tin comit6     t: II participa
                                        o            cion c1e representantcs
  comunitarios para el proyeclo en cada estado, y un comit6 nacionai.




f. Los coordiiiadores sstntales fueror~ co!itralarfos entre fines de 2001 y
  principios de 2002. El coordiiiatlnr naciorial SR cotitrat6 a partir del 1" de
   Enero do 2003.


     a . E! CCiMBltl c~::i~t:i~coli UII doiiativo de "7.5 iiiiilunes t ~ edrjiares para
         ejeicer durailfe todo el tieinpo de si1 ejecucibn; es decil-, unos 7 5 IrliilOllCS
         de pesos. SE: r:spera qua la mayor parte de estos fundos se irivierta en
         spoyo a iniciativas cotnunitarias cie conservaci6n o rnantenirniento de la
         diversidad biol6gica, a \raves de sub-proyectos propuestos pur las propias
         comunidades,      a   trawBs  de     Ios comites   es!atales    y  nacion8les.
         Coilsirieratido 1111 gaslo normal de operacitjn dc 2U%,      sc cspsra rl~reel
         pruyecto invierta unos 67 millones de d6iares en apoyo a ioiciativas
         comunitarias; ijs tfecir, u n ~ s9.5 M~~IOIWS
                                                     de pesos anuaics, qut? equivalen
         a un promedio de poco ni&s de 3 millones anuales.

     .b. Eiitre el 10 y 20 de Marzo de
         2003,    una    misi6n   del   Banco
         Mondial      visit6   MBxico      para
         supervisar el     PROCYtvIAF y       'el
         COINBIU. 1.n misi6n constat6 qiie
         se habian yastado ccrca dc 1U
         millones do pesos, poro que apcri
         tccursos a comunidades. El Banco Munclial iiizo notar que se vcii


f




      C.




      -

  respunsabilitlndes dc: cada participantc e& el proyectu, y eviiar lar;
  co$1iusior'ies.



                                                                                                    .


  proyecto. tos indicadorcs del           !o%
  CO~NBIOfucrbii muy malos.                   ...-'-a
                                                 ... . . . ... . . . .
                                                  ....                       ..........           .
  el   desempeito .,general del   ii      f3~"                                               i
                                               .'.             -_._.....^....
                                                                     ~.                    II       ...
                                                                                             !
                                                                          < .
                                          20%.
                                   I       01%   ...........,. . . . . . -,            <.    1 .




Arrnonizaci6ri de yrogranias y tabuladores

a




b.

                estatal, y le coiresponde iiii sirctdu de I8,'~~ooa 22,000, deponclterido de
                antigii edad, coiidiciories do riesgo, etc .

             c  CONAFOR ha pedido clararnentc a COlNBlO que evite fas dqJlicaciones
                en el firiariciamicntn de sub-proyectos, y qcie dcsarrolle hasta donrfe sea
                posible relaciones de colaboraci6n con !as entidades dal sector del
                gokierno de cada estado y de la propia CONAFOR.




                                                                                        6.


   I,                                                                                          i




, , *
   P -    carnbiss al COINBIO:




                                         *%-


                                        el


i

EN LA CiUDAD DE OAXACA, SIENDO LAS NUEVE HORAS DEL DIA VEINTE DE
AGQSTO DEL DOS MIL TRES. REUNIDOS MAS DEL 50% DE LOS INTEGRANTES DEL
COMITE ESTATAL DE PROYECTO GOlNSiO PARA E l ESTADO DE OAXACA, EN LAS
OFlCiNAS DE NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C., UBlCADAS EN CAE. HEROICA
ESCUELA NAVAL MILITAR NO.517, COL. REFORMA, OAXACA., SE LLEV6 A CAB6 LA
REUNION  EXTRAORD~NAR~ADEL COMITE        ESTATAL DEL PROYECTB DE
CONSERVACION DE LA BlODIVERSiDAD EN COhiiUPliDADES INDiGElu'AS EN EL
ESTADO DEOAXACA, AL CUALASISTIERON:




BIQL.ALEJANDRO FLORESHERNANDEZ      Rep                    NAT




JOYCE GARCjA SOSA.,.




                                                         PBgina 1de 4

      C.P. ADAN SANTOSD~AZ




      AMTRQP. FERNANDO MELO

             DELDiA:

          1. INSTALACIdNDEL COMITE
          2. LECTURA DELACTA ANTERIOR
          3. INFORMEDEAUANCES:
               e   REUNIONDE ONG's CON EL IMG. FRANClSCOCHAPEL4
               a   RECONTRATACION TZINNIACARRANZALOPEZ
                                  DE
          4. CRlTEER1OSPARAMEVALUAC66NDE COlNBfO OAXACA.
          5. TALLERES DECOlNBlO ENLO§ CUMiTcSDE R.N.
          6. ASUNTOS GENERALES:
               e  I N F ~ ~ SOBRE LOS~MECANISMOSPARA~ 0 ~ U Q C A ~
                  REUNIONES DEL~COMITCESTATALDECOIMBIQ.
                                  A C      ~ ~                       A

                  REUNIbNDEL BANCOMUNDlAL ENQAXACA.
               e  LECTURA DECWRTA DESAN PEDROJILOTEPEC (SEANEXA)

       A  I. HACERUNADENDUMALACTA NO.33 DELD ~ ADEAGOSTO,ENDONDESE
                  ~        ~       ~          ~        ~        ~       ~    :
                                                     5
             PLASME LA POSTURA DEL LIC. ARTURO ESCOBEDQ DE LA PERA EN
             CUANTO A LA REESTRUCTURAGIdN DEL 601NB10, ASI' CQMO LA
             ~ A ~ l F ~ DE LBS~INSTIPUCIQNES CON REMC16N A TRABAJAR DE
                             S T    ~ i ~ ~
             FORMA CQQRDlNAQA CON LA h4.C. TZINNIA C ~ R R A ~ ~ ~ A ,
                                                               COORDlNADOHA
             ESTATAL DEC01NB1OOAXACA.
          2. SERBO, A.C. Y TRASPARENCIA, A.C., INFORMARON SOBRE UNA REUNION
             QUE TUVlEROPd CON EL SECTOR DE LA§ ONGS Y El, ING. FRANCISCO
             CHAPELA, EN DONDE POR VQTAClbN MAYOR1TARiA DE LOS ASISTENTES,
cfl         SOSTUVIERON LA POSTURA DE RElNSf'AhARA LA M.G. TZlNNiA CARRANZA
          3. LA coomiiwcrcirv ESTATAL LE PROPORCIONARA A SERBO, A.c., LOS
            Y H,laCER UNA EVALUACIONDELCOIN810EN OAXACA.

            TEL&OPdOS    Y DIRECCIONES DE LOS MlEMBROS DEL PkBRdN DE
            PRESTADORES. '

        A ELSECTOR DE LASONG's SOLlCiTAAL COMIT6SEANALICE LA POSIBiLiDAB
           DE QUE 9 ~ONG'S Y LAS INSTITUCIONES ACAD~MICASTENGAN VQTOS
                          s
           SEPARADOS.
        5. TODOS LOS DOCUMENTOS QUE SE ENTREGUEN AL COMITE DEBERAN
           VENiR CONFECHAY FUENTE.
        6. SE LEY6 UNOFlCiO ENViADQ POR EL L1C. ARTURO ESCOBEDO DE LA E R A
           EN RELACIONA LA RECONTRATACI6NDETZINMIA CARRANZA L. ELCOMITk
           ESTARAENESPERADELNUEVOCONTRATO. (SEANEXA OFICIO).
        7. SE HARAPRESENTAR
                    UNA REUNIQNDE COlNBlOCON LAS INSTITUCIONESACADMCAS
           PARA
           CQLABORAC16N. LA BiOL. OLGA HERRERAYJUNTO CON LA COORDINACi6N
                               EL   PROYECTO       BUSCAR   CONVENiOS   DE

           ESTATAI, DECOlNBiOSE ENCARGARANDEORGANIaRLA.
           SE PLANTEO LA PROBLEMATiCA DE QUE EXISTEN DIFERENTES
           ESTAN ENVOLUCRADOS EN k.CON EL FIN DE SUPERAR ESTA SITUACI6N,
           INTERPRETACiONESDEL PROYECTO POR PARTE DE LOS ACTORES QUE

           SE HARA UN TALLER LOS DiAS 27 Y 28 DE AGOSTO, PARA REVISAR LOS
           DOCUMENTQS DE C(SINB10 (CONVENIO LEGAL,          DOCUMENTQ DE
           EVALUACIdN DEL PROYECTO, MANUAL OPERATIVO Y REGLAMENTO DEL
           COMIT&). SE ESPERbZ QUE EL RESULTADO DE ESTE IEJERCICIO SEA
           UpJ1FICAR VISIONES, ELBBORAR Uta FQLLETO INFORMATiVO PARA LA$
           COMUNIDADES Y DEFINIR CRITERIOS PARA LA EWALUACI6N, LO$ CUALES
           §E LE PROPONDF4bAA NAFIN.
        9. SE INVITARAA PARTlClPAR EN EL TALLER AL L1C. ARTURO ESCOBEDO DE
           LA PEQA, DR. GERARDQ SEGURA, IMG. FRANCISCO CHAPELA Y LlC. ROcb
           CUSTOQIO.
        10.~0sREPRESENTANTESCOMUNIIARIOS      DE OAXAGA HARAN EXTENSDM LA
           INViTACidN DEL TALLER A LOS REPRESENTANTES C O ~ ~ U ~ l ~ ADE i O ~
                                                                          R
           GUERREROY MICHOACAN.
        11.SE LESOLICITARA A UaLIC. ROCiOCLISTODIO PROPORCiONECORA DE LAS
           COMUNICACIONES CON EL BANCO MUPJDiAk EN RELACidN A LA
           RECOdTRATACIONDETZINNIA CARRAW.
        12.SE PEDlRA A NAFIN Y AL ING. FRANCISCO CHAPELA QUE CONVOQUE AL
           COMiTE NACIONALA LA BREVEDADPOSIBLE.
        1%QUEDARA PROGRAMADBS CON LOS COi'AT!% DE RECURSOSNATURALES
           EL TALLER
                     PENDIENTE WASTA QUE SE AVANGE EN LOS ASPECTOS
          CONCEPTUALES DEL PROYECTO.

rJa   SINOTROPARTICULAR,§E DtO PORTERMINADALA SESI8M

. .

      P2gi1-x4 de 4

                                                            -
                    *y?--             _-r Igv uI* I 1 v            ..-                                                                 ..... - ...
                                     ^._                                                                                  -1 7
                                        i"            ......... -. ..-. .... .....
                                                                      -    i            ........."...............I.... ....
                                     ---..
                                      IEjContactos     --             -.-I_                                                   ."."-..-... ......
                                                                                                                                    asle~s~yahoo.cam.mx[~a~ir]
                                                                                                                                     ."__          ._.." .--....   .--  __
                                                                                                           *43                                                  1.-



    a*----Revisar correo              1                         *cj. $8Ag____."     gl   -_-_..__..____. X_..*" ...--._.,-..
                                                                                                 BIUCde inatas

                                         a- EscribirmensajeJ                                                                 Buscarcorreo apciopesciacorreoa
                                                                                                                                            -
 j    Carpstas [AFiadir]                         Anterior      1 Siguiente I ai Buz6n
                                                                                  li                                                        Preezntaci6ninprimibis       -
                                                    EilminarJ         >onder                                                          1mmo                            over
                                                                                         _I                                _~.eenviar             archivo&j
      @Borrador                                                                                                       -
   .^l._L.lLotars
      9Enviadm
      .. _........................                   Estemensaleno esth reseitado. [ ResaRar mensaje Marcar c o m no leido1
                       .......... ...-_.......     Asunto: asistoncla_a_ComitB_de_0axaca,del_ml8rcoles
                              de correq(3)           Fschm: Mon, 25 Aug 2003 14:43:17 -0500
            ...................
              EYoclad                       . .           De: "Mariadel Rocio CustodioArriaga" anrcustodio@nafln.gob.mx>I Bl.msoqajs.ee g i ~ , ~ ~ w ~ o . ~ ~ ~ i
                                                                 ConPaGPca
          ....................
            Papolera [~acisr]
                                                             A: "Santos_Dfaz_Ad6n_(E-mail)" caslensQyahoo.com.mx>
   ----.-----
      R l S caj>eteas [Ocuitarl                           Cc: "n3ivoEsmbedo CF La Pzna" <aescobedoQnafln.gob.mx>, "FranciscoChapela" efchapelaQprodigy.
      aCOINBIO
    . . . . . . . .
                                                  Estimado Adin:

                                                  En relacidn a l a invitaci6n para participar en e l Comittl de Oaxaca
                                                  convocado para e l pr6xmo miercoles y jueves, t e comento que de acuordo a
                                                  infomado por e l Coordinador Nacional, no se t r a t a de una reuni6n
                                                  formal de Comitb, por l o que se me indict5 que no se hace necesaria m i
                                                  participacibn, 10cual veo bicn, por l a cantidad de asuntos que tengo
                                                  peadieates de atender aqui.

                                                  Asimismo, en virtud de que no se t r a t a de una reuni6n Eormal de ComjtB
                                                  no se reembolsardn vidticos a 10s representantes comunitarios, segun se
                                                  me ha indicado.

                                                  S i n embargo, cualquier informaci6n gue para dicha reuni6n informal se
                                                  requiera por parte de l a Administracibn Nacional, haganmela saber con
                                                   tiempo a fin de enviarla a1 menos por correo electr6nic0, o en su dcfecto
;3                                                q l Coordinador Nacional puede proporcionar l a inEormaci6n gite se
                                                  requiera.                                  1




                                                  Envio saludos, Kocio                .

                                                  -----Mensaje                original-----
                                                  De: Francisco Chapela [mailto:fchapela@prodigy.net.mxl
                                                  Enviado el: Lunes, 25 de Agosto de 2003 12:33
                                                  Para: Maria del Rocin Custodio Arriaga
                                                  CC: AKtUrO Escobedo De La Pena
                                                  Asunto: RE: Today's Teleconference re: COINBIO


                                                  At 05:50 p.m.                22/08/2003 -0500, Maria del Rocio Custodio Arriaga wrote:
                                                  >Paca:
                                                  >
                                                  >No se que va a pasar con l a reuniones de Comit6 por una parte Ad&n nos
                                                  >indica por correo que OLYaca est& citeid0 a reuni6nd e Comjtl e l
                                                  midrcoles
                                                  22'7 y jueves 28 pr6ximo, y que has estado de acuerdo en que eso se
                                                  lleve a cabo.

                                                  Por favor trata de confirmar l a informacidn, entea de d a r k per cicrta.
                                                  De
                                                  nuevo, 38 sigue manipdando l a informaci6n.

                                                  Le comsnt6 a AdAn que NO me parecia prudeate hacer l a ceuni6n,.por que
                                                  r.0
                               . .                estaban hacien6o l a pregaracidn necesnria, l o cual deberla i n z l u i r an
                                                  sondeo con 10s comitds regionales y con 10s representantef: de 10s
                                                  sectores
                                                  para concensar l a agenda y v e r i f i c a r l a disponibilidad 6s tiempo de l a
                                                  gente. Le 4iJe en particular que Arturo Esco5edo ha dsclicado ya

      tiempo a 10s comites y que no me parecia que debierainos de abusar de su
      buena disQosici6n. Me parece @e no debemos caer en e l juego. E l "acta*
      en
      donoo se menciona l a aconvocatoria-estb           firmah solamente por l a mitad
      de
      10s representantes comunitarios. Ninguno de ellos cansult6 a 10s
      comit4s
      regionales.

      pnro tambien l e d i j e que s i participantes del COIbl'EIO querian reunirse
      de
      manera informal y querian que l e s propocionara informaci6n y tenia*yo
      tieiipo, haria l o posible por a s i s t i r e l mikrcoles.

      E l viernes nos reuni6 e l Delegado de S&AT             a'L Gerente de CONAFOR,
      Tzinnia y a mi, para revisar e l acuerdo de donaci6n. phi hablamos sobre
       l a
      reunidn del mi8rcoles y e l Delegado y Tzinnia estuvieron de acuerdo en
      que
      no seria una reuni6n formal del comit6, y qdo er;.             =;-:c-siv3  Z d i r a r l c
       dos
      dias (que adem& muy pocos tienen disponib1.e tanto tiempo).

      A s i que m i recomendaciPn es que atiendas 10s pendieqtea que tenemos
      a l l & en
      MQxico ( e l informe semestral, l a transferencia de l a aportaci6n de
      CONAE'OR
      y 19s TDR para l a revisi6n) y que yo atienda esa seuni6n informal
       infonnativa. No Cleo que debamos distraer a Arturo, cuan6o l a reuni6a
       importante serd e l viernes, en donde discutirenos con e l gohiexno de
       Oaxaca
       10s cambios a1 COINBIO y l a revisi6n.


       zpor otro lado. michoacdn taiibi8n onti5 citando a reunidn d e l Cornit4 e l
       28.

       Ellos ya l a coambiaron para e l 4 de Septiembre. No hay problenia para
3      esta
       semana.

       >El limes por l a mallana tengo COTEIP en SXCP, y ten30 que vec varias
       >gestiones de pagos para e l pr6ximo viernes, asimismo tengo encima l o
       de
       rsacar t4rminos y l i s t a corta de auxiliar adrninistrativo, y
       >enviar solicitud de recontratacidn de Tzinnia.

       %acto. No ere0 que debas distraerte de estos asuntos por e l momento.

       Lo que s i habria que ir programando, seria l a xeuni6n de Cornit4
       Ejecutivo.
      Te propongo que 5ea e l mi$rCOle6 3 en Mbico. Ya de ahi - s i tienes
       tiempo-
      p o d r i a "  ir a1 comit6 de Michoach. El viernes 5 ya lo tengo
       comprometido
       en o t r o anunto inamovibfe.

       Saludos,


      Ing. Prancisco Chapela
      Coordinador Nacional del Pr'oyecto de Conservaci6n de l a Bindiversidad
      por Comunidades Indigenas de 10s Bstados de Oaxoca, Michoac&n y
      Guerrsro
       [COINBIO)

      Sabinos 402, C o l o n i a Reforma, 68050 Oaxaca, Oax. NEYICO
                                      _-__
      tel: +52 (951) 5L87i-I9 e& 24
     ---E l i m i n d- - ~ j             Responder a todx 1          1COTra
                                                ~ u . l    -,,~~-
                                                            Reecvlai'          archive          Mover
                                                                                           ~




     .9nter!or I Siguierlte 1                                                                    Gu;
                      %      Ir ai Biizbn

 I




 I




 I

...

1




 'f




       . .

..

             t
             ii
             i
      ERA


... . ..  . ..



. .




       -a&.-        .-2-
                      .                                                   ...
                        i .......                                             . . . . . . .-;.A:. . . .
                                                                                             .
                                                                          ~          ,



     .                                                                                           .
        :.,%       ..
             I4 :,&   :. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                ., r'


I    .. ... .. .. .... ...
           ,


                                                ,


. . . . . . . . . .    . ,.
                            . .  -   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

        SECRE7ARlA DE MEDlOAMBIENTE
          Y RECURSOS NAlUMLES


                                                   Zapopan, Jal. 16 de octubre de 2003.
                                                             Oficio MOm. DGA-0123103:
 \.                                      "2003,AAo delCCLAnidemarb del Nataiicio de
    ".                                 DonMiguel Hidalgoy Costilla, Padrede la Patria".



       SR. SERGIO GARCk4 MENBQZA~Y FMTES.
       PRESIDENTEDEL~                                                  ~           $          A
f       CQMUNALESDE SANTA ,~~~~DE BIENES~   HUATULCO
        DOMiClLlOCONOCtDO
       70985 SANTA MARIA HUATUSGO, OAX.


        Estimado Sr. Mendoza:


        En atencidn a su comunicadodin'gidoal Presidentede la Repdbiica,C.Vicente
        Fox Quezada, con fecha 30 de julio de 2003, ftrrnado a asta Comisidn
        Macionai Forestal, por instruccionssde nuestro Director General, Ing. Manuel
       A. Weed Sqowh, me perrnitoinformarlelo sigulente:

        fEnbstldeoportunidad,oportuna de 10s recursos a 10s prooyectos aproobados por
                             el Banco Mundial manifest6 inconformidad respecto a la
         a        aplicacidn
       COINBIB y PROCYMAF. En rdacidtn con io anterior, se detect6 una aduacih
       irregular de dos funciariarim nombrados por Macional Financbra Tzinqia
        Carranzst, Coordjnadora de Oaxaca y Daniel Davalos, ~ o o r ~ i '(de
f       Giaerrero, asignados a 10sproyectoscomo operadore de estos recursos, poi    n a ~' ~ ~
                                                                                          .
       lo cual se procedid a SLI destftuci6n. ias paasonas que fusron nombradasen
       stsstitucidnde las artteriores, ya ejercieron40% del total de ios recuwosen este
        corto petfododetiempo.

       Se tienen evidencias de qus ias personas destituidas est4n pronoviendo fa
       presentacidn de qlaejas y Ccrrumias por motjvos infuildX.ioS
       desprestigiar et desempefio de 10s ,actualas rssponsabies d~triviales
                                                                          Q        para
                                                                            COINBIC) y
        PROCYMAF,sin embargo, en atencidn a estas manifestaciones,se les &an
       dando instruceianes precisas para que cuaiquier modificaci6n a las regias de
       opsfaclcidn y t6rininos de! referoncia de dichos proyectos 0 cuaiquier acci6n
       imgortante relativa al kjercida de las recursos, sea debidarnente consensuada
       en las instancias reprssantaativas de 10s inteeresadas que actualments
       garantiranlaoperacidnplumiy transparentede COINBlQy PROCYMAF.

                                                           .




                                     At e n le a m e n t e,
                                                         Reeieceibn.
                                                         IAdjunta




C.C.P. Lis. Robedo LEfpazIzqulrdo, Secretarb Tkcflicl?de Smamat -VoIi;nte OSS03061.67
       SOGReginaBarbsPifez,Tiular de la UnidadGmnlinzdorade Partkipaci6nSac. y Transp.
       Or. GerardoSegura Wamhok, COOK!.Generalde Prpcymaf Conator
                                                              -              .
       Ing, FrancismiChap& Mendoza,Coomlinador Fdacianaide Cuinbio
      &ChiVO

                                                                                       ,.* .
                                                                                          .
RVWPVhdlr

'!

     Sr. Joyce GarciaSosa    -2-




I

---.--
          * a

i




                    .tesheamaaue   meeirioTekmnte- .
                      p e d&e&   mucholiquidolapre-
                     saBeni2oJuArez.                                               . -.
                        Ellibramientodeaguadejapre-
                     saBeniroJuBrezofasionalapeli-
                     sunivelvsevuelve&is honda,lo
                     grosidaddelaIaguna,yaquesube
                     q~edificultalapescaapie.               . .                            .   .
                     son-personas deescmosrixursos,
                        Coxnolamavoriade10shualves
                   a personasquevivenenhrnargini-
                     dadamuchosnolespermjtenad-                                                       . . .
                     auirirunalancha,sinembqrgoson     hbioekigieronqueel,
                                                       in
                     {ocoslos quetienenunalanchltao                                                  .%1
                     h apangaparaIapesca.                                                                          ., :k:
                                                                                                                       .,
1'0paratdos10s          Riveraconfirm6quehaceunmes                               saque                             .   .
                     muridunapersonaenesesitio,dijo    Conaf~rsu las
                                                       manos                        intento
                                                       pordesestabilizar10s                    .


                      elcanalylaiaguna,debidoalofan-   proyectas
                                                        G Q ~ Z ~ ~ Q   ~~~~~~~~~




                                                        I\IIORKOAYLJTA, Husmclula, Oak-
                                                        Inregrante~del Conlit6 Indigeria
                                                        paraIaBiodiversidad(Coinbio),exF
                                                        gieronqueelConsejoNacioiialFO-
                                                        restal(Conafor) saqiielnsmanosen
                                                        suintentopordesestabilizarlospro-
                    '??-LaBo& Barraseencuentraala       yectoscomoeldelaConservaci6nde
                                                        laTort!iga. JoiceGarciadenuncidque
                                                        haymanQnegndelaConaFoor,a         LRIV~S
                                                        desudirectorAmir9Garcia,parade-                   . . .
                                                                                                            . .
                                                        estabilizaresteproyecrodcmdesevela
                                                        enteraparticipaci6ndelelatornunida~.               . .
                  1   PEMEXyqueactualnienteesthsien-            Exolic~auedCoirlbioesuncomite             .  .
                                                        dond'epadcipanrepreseiitanresCO-
                                                        inunitariosdelaCosta,lstmo,Yaute-
                  1   puenteparacomunicarentresitas     pecylaSienrtNorte,integrand0un
                      ~~riesdon~es9encureiarslnalberna- consejoconlapn!.ricipacihdelaCO-
                                                         naFordelGohiernode1Estadoydeunas
                                                        or~anizacionesdctaONG,quesonIas
                                                         qiiecon~o~inyd~~idenq11~pro)rectos
                                                         sevaiiafinanciaretilitzona.
                      tanibiCnduranteeldia pescadkres             Rroapesiir.deladccisi6ncofcgia-
          nivelyse    deambaspoblacionessededicana       da,taConaforhacstadojnsistiendo
                      capturarjospecesparaobcencrel.     en'.ja~ar"cldi~leropnrae~~osydjara
                      sustentodiario,sfllevanunajorna-   IitnbasesdelCoinbindiceclmmen-
                                                                  ladoal~~co~nunicladcs"aunque
                      dadehastaseisuoihohoraspara           as
                      llenar tincanastoyaqueporcada      tequeInnnyorpar~edelasdecisio-
                                                         ~~eslasdebendztoir.nrlascon~ucida-
                      cincopescados. .
                      lancequehacenatrapnnentreuno7      des". Sinembargo,ddo,laCanafora
                         'Deestarnaneracientosdefaini-   trav&clc uncoordinadoriiacicnalde!
                      liasobtienensususrentodian'oenla   Coinbiodenombl.eFiancijcoChape-
                      BocaHarradeTchuanrepec,endon-      la,sinconsulraralcon$tkdestituyea
                      dedesembocaa?RfoTehuantepec,       Incoordinadolasinjtatificaci6r,81~1-
                      que a decir algunaspersonasdel       J I ~ , la rnaestraSinia Carranza, po-
                      Pirertodesalina Cruz,es tnazona      ciendoenriesgofafaltadcfinnncia-
                      peligrosaporquehanfallecidoper-      niientoparasacarade1ai:teei proyec-
                      somsei?esesitio.                     todeconservaeidndclatoit u genins
                         Esciert~queesMsmuereeshan~ll-     playasdeb!orroAylita.
                      n-idouerohasidoDorimpnrdencisde    delF~li~~queenesteprimeresfilerzo*
                                                                   prnyecto,se haniogradoiiherai
                                                           mcisde600miicria3de~o1~~i~3~olfina
                                                         yliiiid,perohfalrader e msospadiia
                                                           ~l:crcurierso.l!Icspsig!
                                                           doiciconsc>rsi&ndc!aes
                                                                       -...-..                .   ..a

                                                           ~

Annex 2


                                                    f ,

                   BANKMANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
          REQUESTFORINSPECTIONPANELREVIEW OFTHE
       MEXICO: INDIGENOUSAND CONLIMUNITYBIODIVERSITY
                  CONSERVATIONPROJECT (COINBIB)
                  (GEFTRUSTFUNDGRANTNO.TF24372)

Management has reviewed the Request for Inspection of the Mexico Indigenous and
Community Biodiversity Project (CQINBIQ) (GEFTrust FundGrant No. TF24372), re-
ceived by the Inspection Panel on January 26, 2004 and registered on January 30, 2004
(RQ04/1). Managementhaspreparedthe followingresponse.


                                                                                                                                                                               Mtiriicgement Response




Abbreviations andAcronyms                                                                                                                                                                ......1
                                                                                                                                                               e     ..s.....a.O.         ....iv
I.IntrodkIct~~n...                     ....                                                                                 ........  .....                                              ....
                                                                                                                O..l.....                   .....'.....~....O.OO..O


HI.  TheRequesrt  ..........
                      .........................................
                                  .~........*.........~.,
                                       .........~......~*...
                                                   ...*..........................*.................*................           ........
                            11..*....0.                                            ~0.D*.......le..'.*.~.*.~                    ...I. 0~..D......*s....Coool...~~~                           e. 1
111. ProjectBackground                                       '~'**~~*..~~.....~                                                          *0~.~.*00.~..0e..0.C.DI....OO...
       ProjectFundingandResponsibilities.................................,............... ........... 3                  . .                               .         . .                   ....3
       ProjectObjectives.............................................................*. .........................                                                                   , ..........4
       ProjectComponents.......................................................................................,........                                                                        5
IV.  Spesid Issues ...a .......*.*...............m*e.(1.....*                    .... ......~*..~..
                                                                                          ...e                                                      .......~..
                                                                                                                      0...s0.*~...*~.~*..~                           0.....O.......~~.          7
       ParticipatoryNatureof Project...............................................................................                                                                             7
       Compliancewith OD4.20, IndigenousPeoples.....................................................9
       ImplementationIssues ..........................................................................................                                                                         10
       Compliancewith OD 13.05 andOPBP 13.05, Supervision                                                                              ................................                        15
&r.  h'hX3@anern$'S    RSpQnSC?         .0...D....~.~..~.0.......0..~.~.~~*~....*~~.~..~..                                       =*..~.~~.......~.~.~~~.~*.~..                                 16

Figure
Figure 1. COIE\TBIOOrganizationalChart                                           '



Annexes
Annex 1. Claims andResponses
Annex 2. IndependentEvaluation-ExecutiveSummary, ConclusionsandRecommendations,
          February2004
Annex 3. ProjectEffectivenessLetter, datedJune 22,2001
Annex 4. Letter from NaturalResources Councilof Sierra Juarez (Sierra Norte) to the State
          Committeeof Oaxaca, datedDecember 16,2003
Annex 5. Letter fromNAFINto the State Coordinatorfor Qaxaca, datedJuly 30,2003
Annex 6. E-mailsdatingfrom NovemberandDecember2003 from various Requestorsto Bank
          staff and others
Annex 7. Letterfromthe World Bankto NAFIN,datedJune4,2003
Annex 8. Letterfromthe World Bank to NAFIN,datedJuly 29,2003
Annex 9. LegalOpiniononContractTerminations byMexicanLaborLawyer
Annex 10. Letter fromthc WorldBankto NAFIN, dzitedAugust 29,2003
Annex 11. Fact SheetIRelatoria deHechos,November2003
Annex 12. Minutes No. 39, State CommitteeoEOaxaca, November5,2003
Annex 13. Letter from the WorldBankto NAFIN, datedNovember17,2083


Map 1.    IBRDNo. 32951




                                                                                          iii

Mexico - COINBIO




BP                  Bank Procedure
COIhBIO             Proyectode Conseivcccibnde la Biodiversidad en Comunidades
                    Indigenas(Indigenous andCommunity Biodiversity Conservation
                    Project)
CONAFOR             ConzisibnNational Forestal (National Forestry Commjssion)
GEF                 GlobalEnvironment Facility
IERD                InternationalBank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
PN                  Inspection Panel
NAFN                NacionalFinanciers (National Financial Agency)
NGO                 Non-Government Organization
O D                 Operational Directive
OP                  Operational Policy
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PQA                 Prclgmma OperativoAnual (Annual OperatingPlan)
PRBCYMAF'           Proyectode Consewacibny ManejoSustentablede 10s Recursos
                    Forestalesen Mkxico (Community Forestry Conservation Project)
PRODEFOR            Programa de Desarrollo Forestal (Forestry Management Program)
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SEM"                Secretaria de MedioAmbiente,RecursosNaturales y Pesca (Se-
                    cretariat of Environment, NaturalResourcesandFisheries)
SEMA.RNAT           SecretariadeMedioAmbientey RecursosNaturales (Secretariat of
                    Environment andNaturalResources)
TTL                 Task Team Leader
USD                 UnitedStates Dollar
WWF                 Worldwide Fundfor Nature


                                CurrencyUnit
                          (as of February 20,2004)

                       Currency Unit =Mexican Pesos
                     1MexicanPeso=USD0.0910913
                      USD 1.0 = 10.978 Mexican Pesos




                                       iv

                                                                             Mcirzngement Response




                                      I. INTRODUCTION

    1.       On January 30, 2004, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection,
    PNRequestRQ04/1(hereinafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the Mexico
    Indigefious and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project (referred to hereinafter as
    the COIN310 Project or the Project) financed inpartby the Global Environment Facility
    (GEFTrustFundGrant No. TF24.372).

    2,       This ManagementResponse to the Request for Inspection contains the following
    sections: Section.II  briefly presents the Request; Section Illprovides the Project back-
    ground; Section IV concerns issues of special relevance to the Request for Inspection,
    including community governance, implementation and compliance with Bank policies;
    and Section V summarizes the Management's response. Annex 1presents the Request-
    ors, claims, together with Management's detailedresponses, intableformat. Annex 2 i s a
    suinmary of the Independent Evaluation of the Project carried out between November
    2003 and February 2004. Annexes 3-13 contain correspondence and other documents
    referred to inthe text as appropriate.



                                        PI.  THEREQUEST

f    3.      The Request for Inspection was submittedby five persons; three are members of
    the Comite`Estatd de COINBZO Oaxaca(the Project's State Committee for Oaxaca), one
     i s the Secretary of the Project's Natural Resources Committee representing Yautepec-
    Istmo, and one is the Chief, Office of the Commissioner of I x t k de Jukez, Oaxaca
     (hereinafter referredto as the "Requestors").

     4.      The Request concerns two principal issues: termination of the contracts of the
     State Coordinatorsof Oaxaca and Guerrero without adequateconsultation; andperceived
     restructuring of the COIlVBIO Project without consulting the State Committees, which
     the Requestorsbelieved would subordinatethe Projectto anotherBank Project.

     5.      Attachedto the Requestare the following:

             (i)    Letter dated June 4, 2003 from the World Bank Task Team Leader (`UL)
                    to the International Subdirector of Nncimnl Financiem (NAFIN) concern-
                    ingsuggestionsfor possi'ole restructuring of the Project;

             (ii)   Letters (same coiitent) dated July 23, 2003 from the Oaxaca State Com-
                     mittees addressed to NAFIN and the Nztional Coordinators of the
                     COINBIO Project and Commuiiity Forestry Conservation (PROCYWF)
                    Projects, inviting them to participate in an evaluation of the Project to be
                     carried out by the State Committee;




                                                  1

(iii) ProposedcontractdatedJuly29,2003 foramutuallyagreedseparationbe-
        tween NAFIN and the COPNBIO State Coordinator for Oaxaca (un-
        signed);

(iv)    Letters (same content) datedJuly 29 and 30,2003 from various signatories
        from the Districts of Yautepec, i;'osta Sur, Sierra Norte and Yautepec
        Istmo, all located inthe State of Oaxaca, addressed to the President of the
        UnitedMexican States, the Presidentof the World Bank andother authori-          1

        ties alleging that the institutional partners of Ihe Project intendedto make
        significant changes in the COINBIO Project procedures without consult-
        ingthe stakeholders;

(VI     Letter datedJuly 30,2003 from the COINBIQ State Committee of Qaxaca
        to the Director of International Financing, NAFIN, requesting his direct
        intervention inthe Project;

(vi)    Letter dated August 1, 2003 from various signatorieswritten on the letter-
        head of the Oaxaca State Institute of Ecology to the Director of Intema-
        tional Financing, "?IN, requestinghis presence at the August 5 meeting
        of the State Committee;

(vii)   Minutes of Meeting No. 33 of the COINBIQ State Committee of Oaxaca,
        August:5,2003;

(viii)  Note No. 2 dated August 14, 2083 containing a progress report, prepared
        bythe ProjectNational Coordinator;

(ix)    Letter dated August 19, 2803 from the Intemational Subdirector of
        NAFINto the former COJI'TB1[0 State Coordinator for Qaxacaexplaining
        that the terninattion of her contract is iixversible;

(XI     Minutes of Meeting No. 34 of the CQINBIQ StateCommittee of Oaxaca,
        August20,2003;

(xi)    E-maildated August 25, 2003 from COIl'd'BIU National Administrator to
       ,the Oaxacca StateAdministrator, declining an invitationto participate inan
        informalmeetingof the State Committee;

(xii)   Letter datedAugost 29, 2003 from the BankTTL to the International Sub-
        director of NAFW concerning the proposed reinstatement of the foimer
        StateCoordinator for Qaxaca;

(xiii) Letter dated September 25, 2003 from the Intemational Subdircctor of
        N m to the fomm State Coordinator for Uaxaca summaIizing the
        Bank's responseto NAHNconcerning the proposedreinstatement of said
        Coordinator;




                                        2

            (xiv) Letter and petition (undated) from multiplesignatories to the World Bank
                   Resident Representative in Mexico protesting the disnissal of the State
                    Coordinatorsfor Oaxaca andGEenero;

            (xv)   Letter dated October 16, 2003 from the Deputy General Director of the
                   National Foresby Coinmission (CONWOR) to the Presidentof the Office
                    of Community Assets of Santa Maria Huatulco, Oaxaca explaining the
                    contract terminations and other measures taken to promote Project imple-
                    mentation;

            (xvi)  Letter datedOctober 28,2003 from the Bank SectorLeaderto aRepresen-
                    tative of the Costa Sur Region, in response to e-mail sent to the World
                   Bank Country Director (dated October 10, 2003), stating the Bank's
                    agreementto carry out an IndependentEvaluation of the Project;

            (xvii) Letter dated November 25, 2003 from members of the COICNBIO State
                    Committee of Oaxacato the CONMOR Adjunct Director, concerning the
                    dismissal of the State Coordinator for OaxacaandProject operation; and

            (xviii) Photocopy of newspaper article (undated) alleging that a local project to
                    protect seaturtles was indanger of not receivingcontinued funding.

    6.-'    No further mateiialswere receivedbyManagementinsupport of the Request.

4   7.      The Panelhas indicated that the Requestreferencesissues that may constitute vio-
    lations by the Bank of various provisions of its policies and procedures, specifically the
    following:

            e   OD4.20 IndigenousPeople(September 1991); and

            0   OD 13.05 andQPBP 13.05 Project Supervision (January 1996 andJuly 2001,
                respectively).




     8.     The COINBIO Project was approvedby the Boardof Executive Directors on No-
     vember 28, 2000 and becameeffective on June 21, 2001. The Project is financed by in-
     cremental GEF Grant resources of SDR 5.8 million (approximately USD 7.5 million)
     linked to the IBKD loan for the PRQCkWAF Project. NAFIN, a government develop-
    ment agency, is the Recipient of the COINBIO Grant. As of February 9, 2004, approxi-
     mately SDR 1.4 million has been disbursed, or about 24 percent of the total Grant. The
     expectedclosing date of the Grant i s June 30,2088.


                                       t".,




                                                 3

9.        At the outset, the technical agency responsiblefor the COINBIO Project was the
National Environmental Secretariat (SEWNAT).'                    Until 2001, SEMARNAT was re-
sponsible for forestry issues in Mexico and served as the implementing agency for the
IBRD-financed FROCYMAF Project. InApril 2001, the National Forestry Commission
(CONAFOR), a semi-autonomous agency under SEMRNAT's mandate, was created
with responsibility for forestry issues, including the PROCYrvfAF and CONBIO pro-
jects. In 2002, CONAFQR agreed to finance the taxes on goods and services for the
COINBIO project from its own resources, since these expenditures could not be financed
out of GEF Grant proceeds. CQNAFOR's ongoing coinmunity forestry efforts are now
s~pp~rtedthe "3-financed EzcondCQI-PJIU~~~~
              by                                                ForestryProject (hereinafter~      O W B
as PRBCYMAF H), which was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on De-
cember 9,2003.'

PROJECT      OBJECTIVES

 10.      The objective of the CON310 Project is to conserve areas of highbiodiversity by
strengthening and promoting community conservation initiatives on communally owned
lands in priority areas inthe States of Oaxaca, Michoacan and Guerrero (see Map 1).The
Project supports a demand-driven program to finance the creation of community biodi-
versity conservation areas andcomplementary, biodiversity-friendly and sustainableland
use activities. The Project takes advantage of the positive cultural values and traditional
resource management practices that many communities in the priority areas have devel-
oped over a long period. It also builds on the technical assistance offered by the
P R Q C Y W Project inthe three States. Project objectives are achievedby: (a) support-
ing the ongoing efforts of indigenous coxnmunities and ejidos3to establish permanent
conservation areas, and establishing cooperative networks linking communities with sig-
nificant conservation areas within a larger region of highbiodiversity; (b) buildingcapac-
ity for community conservation and sustainable natural resource management among
 communities in areas of high biodiversity but with weak organizations and a poor eco-
 nomic base; and (c) supporting the creation of state and regional institutions that can
 promote and help finance comunity conservation initiatives over the medium to long
 termwith strong ownership bythe communitiesthemselves.

 11.      Priority areas in the three States were identified through analyses and consulta-
 tions undertaken duringProject preparation as well as national prioiity setting studies by
 the National Corilmissim f ~Biodivexsity imct 'tVV~F-Mexico.Witliiil these areas t:icre
                                       r
 are 1,300 communities with important biodiversity values, comprising a population of

 'In mid2001, the nameSEMARNAPwas changedto SEILIARNAT,when responsibilityfor fisheries was
  assedto the National Agriculture Secretariat.
 'PROCYMAF I1builds uponthe successofPROCYMAF, consolidating andextending community for-
 estry efforts inthe Statesof Guerrero, MichoacanandOaxacaand expandingthe same servicesto the
 States of Durango,Jalisco andQuintanaRoo.
   An ejido is a land-holding consistingof either indigenousor con-indigenous memberswith rights, stipu-
 latedinlaw, incommunalresourcesunder which an individual family has a right to anindividual plotof
 landallocatedby communaldecisionas well as accessto comniunally ownedlands (oftenforest lands,
 pasture and watercourses).
                                        A' d

approximately 650,000 people. Sociz.1 assessments carried out during Project preparation
categorized  C~~IIIIIU~I~    ties by their level of absorptive and organizational capacity. A ty-
pology of four categories of communities was developed, ranging from the least to the
most orgmized, and COINBIO Project activities are tailored to the different levels of or-
ganization (see COINBIO Project Appraisal Document, PAD Annex 12). As of February
2004, 33 sub-projects have been approved for funding.

12.     The COINBIO Project esta3lished State Committees for Omaca, Cucuero and
Michoacan. These State Committees issue Calls for Proposals, evaluate sub-project con-
cepts andapprove them for funding according to criteria established duringProject prepa-
ration. The State Corraittees inckrde representatives o f local indigenous ccmmxities
and ejidos, as well as representatives of relevant State andFederal agencies (see Figure 1
in para. 21). Each State Committee has a Coordinator, who selves as executive secretary
to th6 Committee, and an Administrator/Accountant. The initial Project strategy was to
direct sub-project proposalsappropriate for financing by P R Q C W or PRODIEFOR (a
CQNAFOR program promoting production forestry) to those projects, while targeting
GEF funding to communities not eligible for financing from other CONAFQR sources.
Early inProject implementation, however, it became apparent that there were significant
areas of overlap among different CONMOR programs, causing some confusion and, oc-
casionally, competition among them.




Component1:Local CapacityBuilding

13.     This component finances the costs of the three State Committees and the State
Coordinating Units (composed of the State Coordinator and the State Administrator)
which arethe decision-makhg andoversight bodies for activities at statelevel.

Component2: communi^ C O T I S ~ Wand~Sustainable Use Sub-projects
                                                 ~ ~ Q T Z

14.     The Project provides grant resources directly to c o m u n i ~ e sto finance sub-
projects tailored to the level af organization and willingness of participatingcommunities
to undertake long-term conservation, Communities with limited experience are eligible
for grants to help finance land use planning, community conservation action plans, diag-
nostic studies, natural resource inventories and training. More experienced communities
are eligible for grants to finmce activities that assist them to manage actively 2nd protect
areas designated for conservation. SEMARNAT, through CONAFiOR,ensures that ccvi-
ronmental standards are applied to proposals under review. There are four types of activi-
ties eligible for grant allocaiion, each with a different community comteipart require-
ment, and a progressively larger grant size:

        B   TypeA: Land Use Planning for the Establishmetit of Biodiversity Goizserva-
            tion Areas. Activities include workshops, participatory nirali appraisals, laid
            use planning, mapping, inventories of existing biodiversity resources, aizd de-
            limitation of conservation areas, including preparation of bylaws or cornmu-




                                                    5

            nal statutes (where appropriate) for the creation of pemanent conservation ar-
            eas;

         e   Type B: Training and Capnci~-Btiilding.Activities include capacity-building
            fur conservation activities, including coinmunity training provided by third
            parties and by more advancedconununities to less advancedmes, strengthen-
            ingof community networks,andcarrying out of feasibility studies;

         Q   Type C: ConimiinityInvest"       for Conselrvatioiz Areas and Sustainable Use.
            Activities include forest certification studies, mxket studies, seed capital for
            ecotourism projects, support for other non-timber forest product enterprises,
             andfire prevention; and

         e   Type D: Conzmuni~Green Venture Fimds. Communities that are ready to
            create a permanent fund for continued financing of sustainable use activities
             and conservation areas are eligiblefor a larger grant and would agree to reim-
            burse both the amount of the grant andtheir own matching investmentinto a
             community accomt specifically established for conservation investments.
             (Note: no sub-projects of this type havebeen approvedto date.)

Component 3: Biological Monitoring and Evaluation

15.      Thepurposeof this componentis to monitorbothphysicalimplementation aswell
as biodiversity changes over time. The Project design included participatory evaluation
studies to document social organizational processes and issues, and biological monitor-
ing; however, none of these activities has been undertaken to date. The Project design
also called for a review of Project implementation at the end of the secondyear; this was
recently carried out in the form of an Independent Evaluation and is now available at
http://www.coinbio.carg (Annex 2 of this Responsecontains an Englishtranslation of the
Executive Summary, Conclusions and Recommendations). There will be a midterm re-
view at the endof the fourth y e a

Component 4: Natiomzl Coordination

16.      This component supports the costs of a NationalCoordination Unit, the National
Committee, supervision and monitoring activities, establishmentof the legal andconcep-
tilai iiamewwk for ccrlixmmitji conservstien8s a valid pr~teciedareas inodd, and xpi-t-
ingto the Government of Mexico and the 'Horld Bank. Evaluation anddisseminationac-
tivities will include documenting Project lessons and sharing these findings with other
comnunity andindigenous groupsinbfexico and the Latin American region, io facilitate
cross-fertilization of experienceswith innovative programs across states and elsewhere in
Latin America.




                                               6

                                                                        illnizugeiizentResponse


                                                         I *

                                 iV. SPECIALISSUES

PARTICIPATORY     NATURE OFTHEPRBJEC'C

17.     Pertinent to both the Request andthe concerns of communities served by the Pro-
ject is an understandingof how ruralcommunities inMexico are organized. A large por-
tion of Mexico's rural population lives in either indigenous communities or ejidos. Both
forms of social organization are characterized by communally held and managed re-
sources in forest, cropland and pastureland. By law, forests must be managed commun-
ally, while cropland i s generally managedby individuals who are grcnted rights to their
plots by the community. About 70 percent of Mexico's forest lands are held by indige-
nous communities and ejidos. These lands correspond to some of the areas of highest
biodiversity inthe country.

 18.    The highest authority in indigenous communities and ejjidos i s the assembly
(asamblea)of registeredmembers who meet regularly (usually once a month) to discuss
matters of common interest. Leadership i s provided by a comisan'ado (literally "body of
commissioned officials") who are elected on a rotating basis to atwo- or three-year term
by the community assembly. Experience from the 1980s has shown that communities
with strong communal organization, good attendance at assembly meetings, an631empow-
ered leaders enjoy many socio-economic advantages. A hallmark of a strong community
organization is a community assembly that closely follows andregulates the public posi-
tions taken by its leaders; many communities insist that leaders speak on behalf of the
entire comunity only after the particular matter at hand has been discussedby the as-
sembly.

 19.    Among the benefits of strong community organization are greater access to re-
sources from govemment programs, better management of communal resources and the
capacity to enter into commercia! relationships in a beneficial fashion. Poorly organized
communities are more prone to poverty, illegal resource extraction, and exploitation by
outsiders. Experience shows that well-organized communities are very concerned with
protecting watersheds, soils, and their forests. Some communities have set aside part of
their communal lands as protected areas and have agreed not to use timber from these
 areas.

 20.    As a result of historical conditions, stronger communities have developed in the
Sierra Noi-te region of Oaxaca over the last twenty years than in the Yautepec-1st" or
 Costa Sur regions. The original idea for the COINBIO Project emerged in the Sierra
Norte region, largely as an initiative of indigenous communities themselves. The scope of
the Project was later expandedto include the same three States where the IBRD-financed
FROCYMAF Project was under implementation, which included a large number oE
weaker or incipient community organizations. Consequently, both the COINBIQ and
PROCyhaAFProjects were designed to &vote resourcesto buildingcommunity organi-
zations through such instruments as participatory rural appraisals, development of coin-
 munity bylaws, andbasic zoning plansfor land use.

Mexico - COINBIU



21.      Both the PROCYMAF and COINBIO Projects have a stiict reqnirement that
communities must approve of any sub-project activities through a specific vote by the
assembly and make a counteipai-t contribution to the costs of the sub-project. One spe-
cific difference between the two projects relates to the contracting of technical assistance:
the P'PIOCYMAE;Project allows communities to contract for technical assistance services
from a provider, but has CONPiFOR pay the service provider directly. The COINBIO
Pcoject, in contrast: expands the role for community empowerment by depositing re-
sources for community-based sub-projects directly into an account managed by the bene-
ficiary conmunities. Communities, rather than NAFINor CQNAFOR, contract service
providersthemselves,

22.      Inthe COINBIO Project, individual communities and ejidos are grouped together
on a regional basis into Regional Natural Resource Councils consisting of community
officials duly elected by their respective community assemblies. Under the GEF Grant
Agreement, these Councils elect representatives to the State Committee in each State.
Each State Cormnittee is comprised of six members, three representing the communities
md ejidos, one representing S E M M A T , one representing the relevant State govern-
ment and one representing a civil society organization or academic institution. In prac-
tice, more than three representatives from the comunities have been participating inthe
Committees. At the national level, a National Committee includes representation from
h e s t communities, together with representatives of the Federal Government, including
SEMMAT, the Nalional Commission for Protected Areas (CONANP), the National
Biodiversity Commission (CONABIO), the National Forestry Advisory Group
(CONAF), and NAFINserving as an observer. (See Figure 1 below, based on the GEF
Grant Agreement for GOINli4IO.)

23.      Under traditional cultural practices within indigenous communities and ejidos,
representatives of forest communities serving on the State Committees sliould be re-
placed when their terms as officials of their respective communities expire and new offi-
cers should be elected in their place. However, in practice, some CQINBBO State Com-
mittee members have been allowed to remain in office beyond their elected mandates on
the argument that they know the COINBIQ Project better than others within their com-
munities. This has created a problem regardingthe standing of these persons, who are no
longer au.thori.zedto speak in the name o f their communities or the Regional Natural Re-
source Councils.

24.      The COPPlBIQ Project provides a great deal of autonomy and self-govemance for
the State Committees. State Coinmittees draft and approve their own internal statutes and
procedures. State Coordinators implement the decisions of their respective State Coinmit-
tees. The State Committees provide general oversight over the Project in the respective
States. They review and approve the following: state-level Annual Operating Plans
(POA); Calls for Proposals for sub-projects; proposals for sub-projects andtheir funding;
and the roster for Technical Service Providers in each State. Following the GEF Grant
Agreement, the State Committees were consulted regarding the selection of State Coordi-
nators and State Administrators for the Project.




                                             8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  iManngenien! Response



                                      25.                        Despite the fact that Project implementation began in 2001, the National Coordi-
                                     nator was not appoixed until January 2003 and the National Committee was not con-
                                      vened until April 2003. The National Committee i s intended, inter alia, to provide over-
                                      sight of the entire COIN310 Project, authorize the Project-level PQAs, review and
                                      authorize the criteria used for selection of subprojects in each State, and authorize the
                                      contracting of consultants for national-level tasks. It i s supported by the National Coordi-
                                      nator.




                                                                                                   *                                             NationalCommittee
                                                                                                             One forest community/ejido representative per par-
                                                                                                             ticipating state (3 total)
                                                                                                   e         CONABIO
                                                                                                    e        SEMARNAP (PROCYMAF)
                                                                                                    a        CONAF
                                                                                                             CONANP
                                                                                                   e         NAFWasobserver



                                                                                        .....................                                          "..."..............................................................
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                              ..................................




                                                                                         8
                                                                                         i...............                                        NationalCommittee                                                                i
                                                                                                             Natiom'iCoordinator/NationalAdnlinistrator                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                         I                    ..._........"........."..."............................
                                                                                                                    I"                                                "
                                                                                                                                                                      ............................. ".."................. .."........




      State Committee Glnerrero                                                                                                         StateCommitteeMichoacan                                                                         State Committee Oaxaca
            Three representativesof forest                                                                       I          e                   Three representativesof forest                             I                             Threerepresentativesof forest
            co"i                     tylejidu                                                                                                   communitylejido                                                                          community/ejido
 e          Onerepresentativeof                                                                                             0                   One representativeof                                                                 0   Onerepresentativeof
                                                                                                                                                SEMARNAP delegation                                                                      SEMARNAP delegation
 *          SEMARNAP delegation
            One representativeof the state                                                                                  e                   Onerepresentativeof the state                                                            Onerepresentativeof the state
            government                                                                                                                          government                                                                               government
 0          On&representativeof anNGO                                                                                       0                   Onerepresentativeofan NGO                                                            e   Onerepresentativeof anNGO
            or acadenlicinstitution                                                                                                             or academic institution                                                                  or academicinstitution



1                                                                                         I                      I                                                                                          I                   I




   f..........................State
                                  ".."..............................................                                                                                                                                                         ......................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..........I



                          statecoordhtm                                                                                                                                                                                                           §tate Coordinator
                                   Administrator                                      1i                                                                                                                                                        State Administrator
   1........ .......................................................          ........_i                                                                                                                                              ..............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                                                                         :

Mexico - COINBIO


COMPLIANCE     WITH OD 4.20, INDIGENBUS         PEQPLES

26.     Withrespect to OD 4.20, para. 13,the C O N I 0PADwas regardedinits entirety
BS an IndigenousPeoples' Development Plan (PDP), since eighty percent of the Project
beneficiaries are indigenous peoples. The Project design incorporates the requisite ele-
ments of an n-'T)P, specifically: the legal franework, baseline data, landtenure, strategy
for local participation, identification of development actions, institutional capacity, im-
                                                                '
plementation schedule, monitoring and evaluation, and cost estimates and financing
(PAD Section6, pages 27-28). The Froject also has complied with all other relevant sec-
tions of OD 4.20, as indicated below:

           Regarding infoimed participation and the identification of local preferences
           (OB 4.20, para. 8), the Project benefited fromintensive social assessment car-
           riedout both in the context of the P R O C W FProject and in preparation of
           the CQDJEHO Project. Many meetings were held with indigenous communi-
           ties and groups of leaders to develop the Project design, which incorporated
           local patterns of comiunity governance and traditional leadership, and em-
           phasizedthe institution of the community assembly as the principal decision-
           makingbody.

        0  Both the current and past TTFEs for the Project are social anthropologists.
           Likewise, two Indigenous Specialists, both of Mexican nationality and with
            long experience with indigenous issues in rural Mexico, including Qaxaca,
           have served on the Bank Task Team. Preparation and supervision missions to
           Mexico have included visits to indigenous communities or ejidos, and meet-
            ingswith representatives of suchcommunities (OD 4.20, paras. 16-19).

        e  The Project Operational Manual lays out a range of activities that require re-
            spect for indigenous and coinsrnunity traditions, particularly as regards com-
            munity governance and leadership. NAHN as the Grant Recipient has re-
            spected these traditions, ensuring that community representatives participate
            inevery panel for consultantselection andcarefully following State Commit-
            tee decisions regarding sub-project approvals, in compliance with Sections
            3.01 and 3.02 of and Schedule4 to the GEFGrant Agreement(QD 4.20, para.
            20).



27.     The CQINBIO Project was declared effective on June 21, 2001. Prior to effec-
tiveness, in March 2001, a Bank mission discussed with NAFIN md SEMRNAT an
altemative means of fulfilling the functions ol' a National Coordinator as a way to reduce
administrative costs. It was proposedto distribute these functions among a newly-created
liaison for the CQINBIO and PROCYhaAF Projects, other SEMARNKf offices, the

  TheBank gaveits no-objectionto the contractingofthe PROCYMAF/COINBTOLiaison on October 15,
2001.
                                    " I

                                                        * .

State Coordinators, the National Administrator and otheis. In early Sune 2001, NAKN
confirmed its intention to implementthis change. The Effectiveness Letter dated June 21,
2001waived the condition requiring aNztional Coordinator (Article VI, Section 6.01(b)),
inaccordance with the procedurerequiredby OD 13.05, para. 34. It didso "given the fact
thzt part[ly] his or her functions or responsibilities have been vested in staff already
working under the Project or in SEMARNAT and partly inthe State Coordinators under
the State Comnittees" (see Annex 3). An amendment to the GEF Grant Agreement re-
flecting this change was not preparedat the time.

28.     Project experience showed that because of this change, the COINIBIO Project
ia&d clear central Izadership.The Sate Coordinators did not have guidawe in shaping
their respective programs nor a clear strategy for resource allocation. Recognizing that
the decision not to hire a National Coordinator was not conducive to the orderly imple-
mentation of the Project, inmid-2002, steps were taken to set in motionthe process to fill
this position. The Project's first NationalCoordinator was namedinJanuary2003.

29.     The first Calls for Proposals mere issued in March 2002 inOaxaca, June 20Q2in
Michoacan and November 2002 In Guerrero. During the first round of sub-projects,
ninety-one percent of communities in all three States which secured funding were those
with low organizational capacity. This was surprising, as it was expectedthat the earliest
beneficiaries of the Project would be the communities of the Sierra Nork of Oaxaca
where the Project was conceived and where levels of community organization are high.
Indeed,in Decembei 2003, a letter from the communities of the Sierra Norte of Qaxaca
eo the OaxacaStateCornnittee, copied to the World Bank, complained of bias within the
State Committee againsttheir communities (see Annex 4).

30.     The first meeting of the three State Committees took place between September
andNovember of 2001. Duringthe first year of operation, the StateCoordiriators of Om-
aca and Guei-rero sought to establishthe independenceof their respective Stde Commit-
tees, suggestingthat the State Committeesbecome independentof NAFN, the Grant Re-
cipient. Later, the State Coordinator of Guerrero opened a separate office to the
CQINBIO Project office in order to demonstrate his independence from NAFIN a i d
CONAFOR. The efforts of the two State Coordinators to distance themselves from
NAFM,togetherwith aperceptionoffavoritism towards somecommunities,ledNMm,
CONAFOR and the Bankteam to believe that the COINBIO Project was beingdiverted
from its origilial objectives.

31.     The generalsetting inOaxacain2002 was one of tension andconflict, which was
unrelatedto the COINBIO Project, but indirectly affected it, On May 31, 2002, twenty-
six campesinos from the community of SantiagoXochiitepec in the State of Oaxacawere
killed by gunfire in an ambush while returning from work in a woodlot belonging to the
community. This is known locally as the "Agua Fria Incident" after the name of a local
creek. The massacre was alleged to have been perpetratedby a group of rural dwellers
from neighboring community that had recently lost court battle in a landdispute with
      2                                                B
[he comiunity of the victims. Neither of these communities was connected with

COINBIO or any ether Bank supported pr~ject.~the aftelmath of the incident, the
                                                      In
Govemor of the State of Oaxaca accused SEMARNAT of having authorized logging in
the disputed area, and demandedthe resignation of the local SEMARNAT delegate (ap-
pointedby the FederdGovernment), who also servedon the COINBIO State Committee
for Baxaxaca. Other voices held the Governor responsible for fostering conflict between
ruralcoamrinlties. Boththe COLNBIO m!ndtheP R Q C W FProjects haveavoided sup-
portto cormunities engagedinlanddisputeswith othercommunities.

32.     Given the tense situation in the State of Oaxaca, tle SEMARNAT delegate was
eventually obliged to resign. The timing of this resignation coincided with the decision to
hire a National Coordinator and gave rise to m o r s that the former SEMmAT dele-
gate was a leading candidatefor the position. He was, infact, not shortlisted for the posi-
tion; however, the rumor was sufficient to arouse concerns on the part of the State Com-
mittees for Oaxaca and Guerrero who, under the leadership of their respective
coordinators, spoke out against what they perceived as aFederalGovernmenttakeover of
CODJBIO.`l'ensions were likely compoundedby discussions at this time, in light of Pro-
ject delays, to realign the COZMBIO Project within the context of CONAFOR's overall
progrms.

33.     In October 2002, the State Coordinator for Oaxaca called a meetingof the three
State Coordinators and community representatives in ktepeji, Oaxaca to mobilize oppo-
sition ww aalignment of the Project with other CBNMOIR progrms andthe appoint-
ment of a National Coordinator. NAFN was not notified of the meeting nor was the
PROCYMAF liaison to COIpI$BIO.On another occasion, the State Coordinator for Guer-
rem, apparently in error, let a message inthe voicemail box of COPJAFOR's State Dele-
gate, saying that the State Coordinator for Oaxaca hadtold him it was necessary to start
mobilizingagainst CONNOR. After the NationalCoordinator was appointedin January
2003, he beganplanning for the inaugural meeting of the National Committee and asked
the State Coordinator for Oaxaca to notify the respective representatives from that State.
She failed to do SO mdthe National Coordinator was left to make the necessarycontacts
himself.At the inauguralmeetingof the NationalCommittee onApril 9,2003, a commu-
nity representative from the CostaSur region of Oaxaca, and one of the Requestors, rose
to challengethe legitimacy of the National Committee. Finally, the issueof the perceived
takeover of COINBIB erupted into a direct confrontation 8t that same meeting, when the
State Coordinator for Oaxaca confronted the Director General of CONMOR in an ag-
gressive exchange, challenging the legitimacy of CQNMOR's involvement in the Fro-
ject.

34.     Among other actions taken by the State Coordinator for Oaxacawas t$e removal,
on April 1,2003, ef the NGO representativeserving on the OaxacaState Committee and
substitution with another NGQrepresentzittive, without consulting the Committee or other
NGOs. The NGOs of Oaxaca met and decided to reject this decision and naiiied another

* Neithercommunity was connected with any Banksupportedproject. Beththe COINBIO andrhe
PROCYMAFProjectshaveavoidedsupport to communitiesengagedinlanddisputes with orher communi-
ties.

                                                                                    hfamgmzent Resporise



representative. The State Coordinators of both Oaxaca and Guerrero retained individual
=embers on the State Committees after their mandates as commwity representatives had
sxpired. While the rEtionale for doing so w2s to foster continuity, this practice i s contrary
tc the Operaticnal Manual (Section 7.4) andto the traditional rotation of key positions in
indigenous communities (see also para. 23 above). It also reduces accountabilitybecause,
once their terms expire, such representatives are no longer accountable to their home
comnunities. The Oaxaca and Guerrero Coordinators invited "guests" of their choosing
to participate in and vole in Committee Meetings, while excluding others, and allowed
both community representatives and their alternates to participate in and vote in the
Committee Meetings. Inthe case of Oaxaca, the State Coordinator called a large number
of State Conmittee Meetings (thus far, 40 regular and extraordinary meetings have been
held in Qaxaca, versus 15 meetings in the State of Michoacan and 17 meetings in the
State of Guenero over 27 months o f the life of the Project), resultingin substantial oper-
ating costs.

35.     Following these events, and after consultations with its Legal Department,
NAFP?consideredthat it was inthe bestinterestsof the Project to terminate the contracts
of the StateCoordinators for Oaxaca and Guerrero (see also Annex 1,No. 2). OnJuly 22,
2003, NAI;E? requested from the Bank a no-objection to a proposed mutually agreed
separation document between NrihmE\T and the State Coordinators of Oaxaca and Guer-
rem. The Rank issued a no-objection to the proposed mutually agreed separation docu-
ment on July 29,2003. When the State Coordinators of Baxaca and Guemro rejected the
mutually agreed separations,N mnotified the two State Coordinators on July 30,2003
of-the termination of their contracts in accordance with Sec~on11of the original labor
contracts, which allowed unilateral terrnination without cause (see Annex 5). The termi-
nation letters gave as a reason a proposed restructuring oEthe Project, requiring a change
in%e terms of reference of the State Coordinators (Note: no restructuringhastakenplace
to date; see Annex 1, No. 4). The Bank did not review or provide a no-objection to the
July 30, 2003 termination letters. The Bank learned of the terminations in early August
and was formally notified on August 28, 2803. These terminations became effective on
August 15,2003.

36.      After the contracts for the State Coordinators were terminated, two State C o m ~ t -
tees (Oaxaca and Guerrero) suspended issuance of the Calls for Proposals for 2003, im-
peding the Project's progress. In late July 2003, a group of community representatives
primarilyfrom the Yautepec-Istmo and Costa Sur regions of Oaxaca sent a series of let-
ters to various officials in Mexico and abroad6alleging intentions by the Bank, NlaFrN
and CONWOR to restructure the Project without public consultation. After the contract
terminztions took place, correspondence was sent from a number of individuals in Om-
aca to various parties, including the World Bank Country Director for Mexico. This cor-
respondence coneained misrepresentations of the facts and proposed solutions that were

 The recipients of these letters included, amongothers, thePresident of the World Bank, the Frssident of
Mexico; the Governor of Oaxaca; the President of the NiitiowiiCommission for the Development of In-
digenous Peoples; the Secretary of SEIvIAlXiiAT,the Director General of CONAFOR; the Director nf Tn-
ternational Finance, NAFIN;the Director of the StateEcology Iristitute of Oaxaca; and the SEMmVAT
Delegate inOaxaca.




                                                    13

h f e ~ i i-. COINBlO
              ~


no1acceptable to the Government of Mexico. The. Bank respondedon October 28, 2003
andDecember 2,2003. These responses elicited abusivereplies from one of the Request-
32s (see Ancex O), following which the Bank team made the decision to await the results
of the IndependentEvraluationprocess that beganinNovembsr 2003 rather thm continue
exchanges of correspondence. On November 5, 2003 two Bank staff members partici-
pated iila special meeting of the State Committee of Oaxaca. Draft minutes were circu-
lated containing inaccuratestatements about agreements reachedwith the Rank, obliging
the Bankteam to issue aletter datedNovember 17,2003 correcting these minutes (Annex
13).

37.          The terms of reference for the hdependent Evaluation and the shortlist of con-
sultants were prepared in consultation with the three State Committees. The consultant
team included one Mexican consultant and one intemational consultant (of Salvadorean
nationality), neither of whom had any prior connection to the Project. The Independent
Evaluation began in November 2003 and included extensive discussions and consulta-
tions with indigenous representatives and other stakeholders in each of the three partici-
pating States as well as representativesof the Federal Government, The final report was
receivedon February 10,2004. The report has been acceptedby the Bank andby the Na-
tional Committee (at its meeting of February 17, 2004) and is available as noted abovein
para. 15. Following a two-to-three week period for review and discussion by stake-
holders, a workshop will be scheduledfor midMarch2004 (see para.4-4below).

38,          The Independent Evaluation identified important Project weaknesses. These in-


                Unresolvedtension betweenthe decentralized, participatory nature of the Pro-
                ject andthe Recipient's centralized administrative mechanisms;

                Failureto appoint aNational Coordin2tor early inProject 1iiiplementa;ion;

                Failure to convene the National Committee in a timely manner, depriving the
                 Project of animportant mechanismfor conflictresolution;

                 Lack of legitimacy of conmunity representativeswhose terms of oficewithin
                 their communities hadexpired;

                 Long delays in actual disbursements,for wnich the responsihlity was shared
                 amongall parties; and

                 Institutional isolation of the Project.

The report indicates tlistt the State Coordifiators of Oaxaca and Guerrero took an anti-
institutional approach to the Project, choosing to builduptheir own personalstatus vis-i-
 vis the communities, leading to the present crisis. The report also i s critical of the manner
inwhich the contractsof the StateCoordinators of OaxacaandGuenero were terminated,
charxterizing it as poorly executed and poorly explained, aggravating the crisi5 in the
Project. Finally, the report warns tlint the Project i s unnlikely to meet its biodiversity con-



                                                    I4

                                                                          klamgenient Xespoiise



servation targets became of the imbalance in the mix of community types represented in
the subproject portfolio.

39.     Management agrees in particular with the assessment made by the Independent
Evaluation regarding the failure to appoint a National Coordinator and convene the Na-
tional Committee. Such decisions, made nearly three years ago, have contributed to the
difficulties that the Project has experienced. Beginning in mid-2002, the Bank moved to
correct some of these problems, specifically urging the Recipient to appoint a National
Coordinator andconvene aNational Committee.

40.     Du~ingthe oiost recent suyel*visioiirrission (January 26-February 5, 2004), the
Bank team participated in sixteen meetings with various stakeholders in the three States;
inonly two of themwas the subject of the contract terminations raised. The Independent
Evaluation was discussed at length and there were repeated calls to hire new State Coor-
dinators andto continue with Project implementationas soon as possible.




41.      OD 13.05 was applicable to the Project from the Boarddate, November 28, 2000,
through July 18, 2001. QP/BP 13.05, issued on July 19, 2001, replaced OD 13.05 for'alll
projects under supervision as of that date, and has been applicable to the Project since
then.

42.      Since Project effectiveness in June 2001, eight supervision missions have been
undertaken, jointly with supervision of the PROCWAF Project. A draft Amendment to
the GEFGrant Agreement hasbeen prepared (but not yet signed) to reflect the changesin
the institutional framework, namely, the change of S E m A P to SEMAWAT and the
establishment of CONMQR. Finally, N m has complied with the requirements con-

the GEFGrant Agreement (Article In,Section 3.07(b) and (c)).
ceming Progress Reports and Annual Reviews on Project implementation, as required in


43.      Beginning in mid-2002, actions were taken to improve Project implementation
and achieve compliance with the GEF Grant Agreement, including hiringof the National
Coordinator and convening of the National Committee (Article ID, Section 3.04(a) and
Section 3.03(a)(i), respectively). In a letter dated June 4, 2003, the Bank pointed to a dis-
bursement delay of 21 months and proposed for consideration a number of possible
measures to improve Project implementation. This more intensive supervision led lo
changes in the status quo of the Project, which, in turn, caused apprehension and resis-
tance by the State Coordinators in Oaxaca and Guerrero and some members of the State
Committee of Oaxaca.

44.      Next Steps. Management is committed to continuing vigorous action to move the
Project forward and overcome the difficulties that have occuned. The Bank task team
will work iniensively with NAFrW and CONAFQR to address the impleimiitation issues
identified by the team and Ihe Independent Evaluation, and will seek ways to restore ail
atmosphere of confidence in the Project. Specific actions planned orthe near future in-
clude:
                                  & %




                                               15

       e   Workshop to review the Independent Evaluation and consider possible
           changes inProject procedures-mid-March 2004;

       e    Stmtegic planning seminar - immediately following the mid-March 2004
            workshop;

       e   Calls for proposals for sub-projectsinOaxaca andGuerrero-mid-April2004.;
            and

       e    New StateCoordinators for Baxaca and Guerrero contracted-by June 2004.




45.    The Requestors' claims, accompanied by Management's detailed responses, are
providedinAnnex 1.

46.    With respect to OD 4.20, Managementbelieves that the issues raised in the Re-
quest arise out of a labor dispute, and do not constitute a violation of Bank policy. With
respect to the Bank's policy on supervision, Managementbelieves that the failure to hire
a National Coordinator or convene a National Committee duringthe start-upphase of the
COKNBIOProject was apoor decision. Nevertheless, insubsequent supervision, theBank
has made a good faith effort to address this situation and to apply its policies and proce-
dures in the context of the Project. InManagement's view, the Requestors' rights or in-
terestshavenotbeen, nor are they likely to be, directly and adversely affectedby afailure
of the Bank to implement its policies and procedures. Management further believes that
the Bank's actions didnot have adverseeffects on the intendedProject beneficiaries.




                                 i'*




                                            16

OD 4.20; Indigenous People, and OD 13.05 and OPBP 13.05, Project Supe;vision, were cited in the Notice of
Registration. The Requestfor Inspection mentionsthe needfor the Bank to operate in conformity with both OD 4.20
and the GEF Grant Agreement, but focuses on two principal issues, rather than Bank policies. The two issues
concern: (a) restructuringof the Project; and (bj the terminationof contracts of the Slate Coordinators of Oaxacaand
Guerrero without adequate consultation with State Commitiees. The Requestors' statements are addressed in the
order presented in the Requestfor Inspection.Given the flow of the Request,those claimswith a stronger focus on
participationwere grouped under OD 4.20 and those with a stronger emphasis on how the Project was carried out
were arouued under OP/BP 13.05. Nevertheless, it could be argued that any one of the claims relates to either or
both $the cited policies.

           Claim/lssue                                                      Response

   lndlgenousPeoples
      It is our understanding               Management believes that the COIN810 Project (the Project) is in compli-
   that the Bank is not oper-             ance with OD 4.20. Representatives of forest communities, both indigenous
   sting in accordance with               and non-indigenous,which are beneficiaries of the Project have participated
   OD 4.20 pertaining to                  actively in decision-making for the Project in the three participating States,
   indigenous peoples, pur-               Guerrero, Michoacan and Oaxaca. (Note: Minutes of State Committee Meet-
   suant to which beneficiar-             ings are available at www.coinbio.org.) Underthe Project Operational Manual,
   ies play an imporiant role             State Committees issue Calls for Proposalsfor community conservation and
   in terms of        decision-           sustainable use sub-project financing, evaluate the sub-projects and approve
   making related to pro-                 them for financing. To date, 93 sub-projects (16 in Guerrero, 42 in Oaxaca,
   jects. Also, Article 3, sec-           and 35 in Michoacan) have been approvedby the State Committeesand have
   tion-3.04(c) of the legal              receivedfinancing from the GEF Grant.
   agreement states that the
   hiring and maintenanceof                 Duringthe periodfrom June 2002 to the present, the Bank supervisionteam
   State Coordinators shall               has conducteddiscussionswith NAFINto improvethe performanceof the Pro-
   takkplace in consultation              ject. Performanceimprovement was necessary because the Project is nearly
   with the State Commit-                 two years behind schedule; targets for sub-projects have not been met and
   tees.                                  implementationhas not yet begun for some components. The discussions So-
       A                                  cused on improving Project management, and on bringing the Project into
      As beneficiaries, we                compliance with the GEF Grant Agreement, particularlywith regard to: (a) the
   have a right to active par-            role of the NationalCommitteeto oversee implementation; (b) avoiding overlap
   ticipation   in    decision-           between the COlNBlO Project and CONAFOR's PROCYMAF and
   making relatedto the Pro-              PRODEFOR programs;and (c) ensuringthe proper functioningof the National
   ject through our represen-             Committeeandthree State Committees.The Juris 4, 2003 letterfrom the Bank
   tatives, who are perma-                to NAFIN (see Annex 7) summarizes these discussions, and also includes
   nent members of the                    suggestions resulting from discussions among the Bank, NAFIN, CONAFOR,
   State Committee.                       and the Nationaland StateCoordinators (duringa mission in March 2003).

   itsThe ruleshas proce-
       ownBank andviolated                  The discussions were held with the participation of the State Coordinators
                                          (e.g., March 2003 mission) with the understandingthat they would bring this
   dures by proposing a re-               informationto their respective Committeesfor further discussion. Kowever, as
   structuring of the Project             of October 2003, discussions had not yet advartced to the stage of specific
   withoutthe involvementof               restructuringproposals to be considered by the State Committees, During this
   the State Committees, an               time, the Bank received expressions of dissatisfactionfrom individuals in the
   action that implies that               State of Oaxaca concerning the termination of the contract of the State Goor-
   they will be stripped of               dinator for Oawca, as well as a requestto conduct an IndependentEvaluatioo
   their powers in order to               of the Project. Since the Project design also called for an evaluation, this
   revert to a vertical ap-               measure was pursued as a means lo address concerns relating to Project im-
   proachto decision-making               plementationand improve Projecteffectiveness.
   instead of the horizontal
                                            The terms of reference for the Independent Evaluation and the shortiist of
   [...I.
   app:oach    used thus far
                                          consultants were discussed with each of the State Committees befoie they
                                          were finalized and the consultants were retained. The consultant team in-
                                          cluded one Mexican consultant and one internationalconsultant (of Salvador-
                                          ean nationa!ity), contractedrespectivelyby NAFINand the Bank.




                                                            I7

                                The Independent Evaluationbegan in November 2003 and included exten-
                             sive discussions and consuitations with indigenous representativesand other
                             stakeholders in each of the three participating States as well as representa-
                             tives of the Federal Government (the report includesa full list of personsintor-
                             viewed). The final report was received on Februaly 10,2004. It is avai!able on
                             the intemetand followinga two-to-threeweek periodfor review and discussion
                             by stakeholders, a workshop will be scheduiedfar mid March2004.

                             nityDiscussions  of possible modificationsto the Project have involved commu-
                                  representatives through the State Coordinators and Committees. No re-
                             stiuciuiiiig of iils Pmjeci has laken placa io data. Oiyoitiy discisslons ihat
                             may lead to restructuring, taking into account the tndependent Evaluation,will
                             continueto involve systematicconsultationwith Project stakeholders.

itsThe ruleshas proce-          The State Coordinators of Oaxaca and Guerrero were first contracted on

dures I...]by giving its
   ownBank andviolated       September 1, 2003 and May 1, 2002, respectively, in consultation with the
                             respective State Committees. These contracts were renewed on January 2,
"no-objection" to the re-    2002 (for the State Coordinator for Oaxaca) and January 2, 2003 (for both
moval of the State Coor-     State Coordinators). On July 22, 2003, NAFIN requested a no-objectionto a
dinators of Guerrero and     proposedmutuallyagreedseparationdocumentbetweenNAFINand the State
Oaxaca, without consult-     Coordinators' of Oaxaca and Gusrrero. The Bank issueda no-objeclionto the
ing the State Committees,    proposed mutually agreed separation document on July 29, 2003 (sse Annex
as stipulated in the GEF
Grant Agreement.             8).
                                When the StateCoordinatorsof Oaxaca and Guerrero rejectedthe mutually
                             agreed separations, NAFIN notified the two State Coordinators on July 30,
                             2003 of the terminationof their contracts in accordancewith Section 11 of the
                             original labor contracts, which allowed unilateral termination without cause.
                             The termination letters gave as a reason a proposed restructuringof the Pro-
                             ject (Note: no restructuringhastaken placeto date: see No. 4 below), requiring
                             a change intho terms of referenceof the State Coordinators. The Bankdid not
                             rsview or provide a no-objection to the July 30, 2003 termination letters. The
                             Bank learned of the terminations in early August and was formally notifiedon
                             August 28,2003. Theseterminationsbecameeffectiveon August 15,2003.
                                                         .......................

                                Events leading to NAFlN and CONAFOR's decision to terminate the con-
                             tracts of the State Coordinatorsof Oaxacaand Guerrero are cited inparas. 29-
                             34 above. Their decisionwas based upona track recordconsisting of: (a) poor
                             management of their responsibilities as State Coordinators, resulting in 10%
                             Project performancelevels: (b) bias in the administrationof Project resources
                             with regardto individuals,communities and sub-regions; and (c) activitiesthat
                             were considered to be undermining and confrontational. For instance, at the
                             ;x,u~tixlmstlng of tke Faaticzal Csir,aii;;se on April 9, 2003, a cofiIinu;litg
                             representativefrom the Costa Sur region of Oaxaca, and one of the Request-
                             ors, rose to challenge the legitimacy of ths National Committee. Also al that
                             meeting, the State Coordinator for Cjaxaca confronted the Director General 05
                             CONAFOR in sn aggressive exchange, chsllenging the legitimacy of
                             CONAFOR's involvement in ths Project. The Independent Evaluation repoi?
                             slates that the Stzte Coordinators of Oaxaca and Guerrero took an anti-
                             institutionalapproachto the Prcject, leadingto the piesentcrisis.

                                The termination of the contracts of the State Goordimtors of Oaxaca and
                             Guerrero is lawful uncler Mexican labor iaw as indicated by the legal opinion
                             issued by an indepensfent h4exican labor lawyer (see Annex 9). However,the
                             IndependentEvaluationreport is critical of the manner inwhich the contiactsd
                             the State Coordinatorsof Oaxaca and Guerrero were terminaied, characteriz-
                             ingj t as poorly sxecuted and poorly explained, aggravating the crisis in the



                                                18

                                Project.

                                  With regard to the Requestors' comments on consultation, the GEF Grant
                                Agreement, Alticle 111, Section 3.04(c) states:

                                       'The Recipient shall hire and thereafter maintain throughout Project
                                       implementationthree coordinators and three adminislrators (as con-
                                       suitants,chosenbythe Recipient incoordinationwith andinconsulta-
                                       tion with the relevantState Committee, to work underterms of refer-
                                       ence set fotth inthe OperationsManual)."

                                ?his clame could be interpreted either as requiring prior consultation for con-
                                tract termination or not. In view of the participatory spirit of the Project, Man-
                                agement believes that, regardless of the interpretation, prior consultation by
                                NAFIN with the State Committees would have been the most appropriate
                                course of action. At the same time, Management continues to consider the
                                outcomeappropriate.

                                   In Management's view, the decision to terminate the contracts of the State
                                Coordinators for Oaxaca and Guerrero should be considered against the
                                background of a highly participatory process in which indigenous communities
                                and ejidos have had an extensive and continuous participationin decisions
                                made by State Committees (see, for example,the Minutesof State Committee
                                meetingspostedon the COlNBlO website http://www.coinbio.org). NAFlN took
                                the decision in order to improve Project implementation. Management further
                                believes that the Bank's actions did not have any material adverse effects on
                                the Project beneficiaries, although it negativelyaffectedthe two personswhose
                                contracts were terminated (neitherof whom is a memberof any of the commu-
                                nitiesor ejidosserved by the Project).

   The unjustified removal        The Requestors are correct that there is an atmosphere of uncertainty re-
of 3he coordinators of
Oaxaca and Guerrero [...I       gardingthe Project,which Bank Managementbelievesis a consequence of the
                                disputes outlined in Nos. 1and 2 above. The position taken in the letter to the
has created an environ-         inspection Panel can be contrasted to that taken by the Natural Resources
ment of uncertainty in the      Committee of the Sierra FIorte region of Oaxaca (see Annex 4), which voices
regions in which the Pro-       concerns that the State Committee is focusing its energies on this labor dis-
ject is being implemented,      pute rather than on Project implamentation. For example, after the contract of
since the violation of the      the State Coordinator for Oaxaca was terminated, the State Committee re-
process has led the bene-       fused to approve issuance of the Calls for Proposalsfor 2003, impeding the
ficiarycommunities to fear      Project's progress. The Sierra Norte Committeestates that it has suffered bias
that the projects currently     in the selection of sub-projects, a point with which CONAFOW and the Inde-
underway will not becon-        pendent Evaluation agree. A similar refusal to allow Calls for Proposals oc-
tinued or that the rules of     curredin Guerreroas well.
operation governing the
Project will be changed            During the Janualy 2004 Bank supervision mission, the Bank team mst with
and money for the pro-          each of the time State Conmitiees, as well as Sla& elxi Fedsial Aidiliorlijes
jects will be given directly    to address concernsof Project stakeholders. Among th:: cmcerns raised was
to service providers rather     a request that new Calls for Proposals be issuedto meet the high demand for
than to the communities,        sub-project financing. Furthermore, a number of communities came iorward
as has been the case so         with intiovative ideas for sub-projectsand urged that these be consider& fa
far.                            financing.

                                   Finally, contrary to the asseriion of the Requestors, no proposal has bszn
                                made for NAFIN to pay service providers directly as in the case of the i8RD.
                                financed PROCYMAF Project. In the COlNBlO Project, resources for most
                                types of support are disbursedfrom NAFlNdirectly to communities rather than
                                to service providers (i.e., consultants). Indeed, a prsposal is under considera-
                                tion in the PROCYMAF II Project to utilize procedures similar to fhom 3f the

                                                             . .




                              COINBIOProject.

   In our view, the Bank        There is no proposalfrom any party to subordinzitethe COlNBlO Projectto
,ears  responsibility, in-    the FROCYMAF Project; however, tlisre is a formal link between the two, as
3smuch as it supported        indicated in the CQiN5lO Project PAD. The relationship between the
2nd suggested the re-         PROCYMAF Project and the COlNBlO Project dates back to the July 1993
nova1 of the State Coor-      proposal for project preparationfinancing made by the Bank to the GEF. The
jinators and their re-        COINRIO Projectis financedby incrementalGEF Grant resourceslinkedto the
,lacement             with    IBRDloanfor the PROCYMAFPioject.
TIOCYMAF        coorcfina
`ors, another project that      In the GEF Grant Agreement for the COlNBlO Project, the technical imple-
s unrelated to COINBIO,       menting agency is listed as SEMARNAP (later became SEMARNAT), which
n an attempt to subordi-      was also the implementingagency for the IBRD-financedPROCYMAF Project.
late the COIN510 Project      Responsibility for forestry was transferred in 2001 to CONAFOR, a semi-
.oPRQCYMAF.                   autonomous agency under the mandateof SEMARNAT, and along with it, re-
                              sponsibilityfor the PROCYMAF Project.A draft Amendment for the COlNBlO
                              Project, reflecting the abovementioned institutional changes within
                              SEMARNAT, is pending.Another link betweenthe PROCYMAF and CQlNBlO
                              Projects is evidenced by the fact that CONAFOR agreed to finance from its
                              own resources the taxes on expenditures under the COINB10 Project that
                              couldnot befinancedout of Grant proceedsunderthe Bank's rules.

                                Over the past year, issues under discussionabout tho COlNBlO Project in-
                              cludedthe potentialfor overlap betweenvariousCONAFOR forestry programs,
                              including the IBRD-financed PROCYMAF Project and the GEF-financed
                              COIN510 Project.The then-DirectorGeneralof CONAFOR (now Secretary of
                              SEMARNAT) raised concerns regarding the COINBIO Project. First,
                              CONAFOR was concerned that communities could be confused by multiple
                              sources of CONAFOR financing for the same services, such as Rapid Rural
                              Appraisal, territorial zoning, etc. It wanted to create a "single v:hdOVJ" so that
                              communities cculd more easily identifij and access the appropriate source of
                              suppori for their needs. Second, CONAFOR wanted to avoid duplication of
                              services and rivalriesamong the staffs of differentCONAFOR programs.Third,
                              CONAFOR was concerned about substantial differences in the salary scales
                              among CONAFOR staff, consultants hired under tho I5RD-financed
                              PROCYMAF Project, and consultants hired underthe GEF-financedCOiNElO
                              Project. Such differences generated friction among the various CONAFOR
                              programs, making it difficult for them to collaboratesmoothly. Fourth, the rela-
                              tively small COlNBlO state teams (composedof a State Coordinator and Ad-
                              ministrativeAssistant) lackedthe capacity and mobilityto fully engage isolated
                              rum!communitiesspreadacrosseach pariicipatingState.

                                 Similarly, the Independent Evaluation points to the institutional isolation oi
                              the COlNBlO Project and to its lack of capacity for outreach. in this context,
                              the iaea arose that other CONAFOR staff and consukants, particularly those
                              contractedto work on the IBRD-financedPROCYMAF Project, could help dis-
                              seminate and promote the COIN310 Project among indigenouscommunities
                              greatly expanding the reach of the COlNBlO Project and creating synergies
                              beiwrenthe COlNBlO Projectand the PROCYMAF Projact.

                                 Given CONAFOR's role of providing high-quality sewices within Mexico's
                              forestry sector, its responsibilityto oversee technical aspects of the C01biSiC
                              Project and its financial and materiai contribution to the Project, CONAFOF
                              appropriatelyhadconcerns about implementationof the CDlNBlO Project. Thc
                              State Coordinators were privy to these matiers and appeared to have under.
                              stood and agrsed with the institutional issues at stake. All three State Coordi
                              nators participatedin discussionson these issueswith the understandingthe)
                              would return to their respective Committeesfor further disciiesion. At no time
                              during these discussionsdid the State Committees or Coordinatorsfor Qwac~
                                                      ---
                              ____y___                                              .     . s P - - s - - -

                                  and Guerrero bring their concerns about a perceivedtakeover to the National
                                  Coordinatoror to NAFIN or CONAFOR.

                                     Managementconfirmsthat the two Projectshave been linked since prepara-
                                  tion beganfor the CGINBlO Projectand favors the strengthening of synergies
                                   betweenths two, while maintainingthe COlNBlO Project's identity and auton-
                                   omy.


Supervision                -
  In our view, the Bank 13.05        Since Project effectiveness,there have been eight supervision missions, in-
baars responsibility, in-          cluding an anthropologist on each occasion, in accordance with OD 4.20,
asmuch as it supported
and suggested [...I                para.19.
                       the
Operational Manual and               No proposalhas been made to "divest the State Committeesof their author-
PAD be changed in order            ity and vest the national coordinator with full powers." Dating back to June
to divest the State Com-           2002 and particularly during the Independent Evaluationcarried out from No-
mittees of their authority         vember 2003 to February 2004, discussions were held to revise the Opera-
and vest the national co-          tional Manual to clarify and streamline procedures, such as removingoverlap
ordinator with full powers         betweenCommitteeand Coordinatorfunctions.
[...I.                               Tho proposalsmade in the Bank's Letterof June 4, 2003 to NAFlN (seeAn-
All these changes were             nex 7) would not require an amendment to the GEF Grant Agreement, but in-
proposed by the World              stead adjustmentsto the OperationalManual since the only changeswould be
Bank, which gave precise           to the terms of reference and the institutionalmatrix. Subsequentto the results
instructions to Nacional           of the Independent Evaluation and the planned March 2004 workshop, the
Financiera S.N.C.,     the         OperationalManualwill be revisedas needed.
executing agency, to im-
plement them as soon as
possible, arguing that this
action did not require a
legal amendment. In so
doing, the State Comniit-
tees were overlooked and
a deaf ear turned to our
complaints.
                            ____._
   We requested, in dif- 13.05        Until January 2003, NAFINhad not appointeda National Coordinator for the
ferent ways, the removal           Project (Article 111, Section 3.04 (a) of the GEF Grant Agreement) nor had a
of the nationalcoordinator         National Committee been established (Article 111, Section 3.03(a)(i)). Appoint-
since he is persona non            ment of a NationalCoordinatorwas a Condition of Effectivenessfor the Grant.
grata among our peoples,           Ina letterdatedJune22, 2001, the Bank waivedthe Conditionof Effectiveness
as well as the reinstate-          (in accordance with the procedure requiredby OD 13.05, para. 34). It did so
ment of our State Coordi-          "giverl tile fact that part[ly] his or her functions or responsihi!ities have been
nator, inasmuch as her             vested in staff already working under the Project or in SEMARNAT and parily
removal violated the legal         in the State Coordinators under the authority of the State Committees." An
agreement and there was            amendment to the GEF Grant Agreement reflecting this change was not pro-
no justification for this          pared at the time. Project experienceshowed that this waiver was not condu-
action, which was en-              cive to the orderly implementationof the Project.
couraged and supported
by the World Bank.                    in order to bringthe Projectinto compliance with the GEF Grant Agreement,
                                   inlate2002,terms of referencewere draftedand ashortlist developedto hirea
                                   NationalCoordinator.Although not requiredin the OperationalManuai or Grani
                                   Agreement, in keeping with the spirit of the Project, NAFlN invited tho Statu
                                   Committeesto propose nmes fcr the shortlist of the NationalCooi,. ~iiaforand
                                   to send one representatbe each to serve on the Selection Committee. On
                                   January 15, 2003, the Bank issued a no-objectionto hiring the Project'sfirs',

                                       , _ 1




                                                      21

                               NationalCoordinator.

                                   The State Coordinators of Oaxaca and Guerrero took actions that can be
                               construed as underminingthe role of the NationalCoordinator, the functioning.
                                of the NationalCommitteeand NAFIN's responsibilitiesas Grant Recipient,For
                                example, they refused to coinmunicats directly with the National Coordinator.
                                At meetingsof various State Committees,includingone on November5, 2003,
                               at which Bank staff were present, the National Coordinator (who was repre-
                               senting NAFIN at the meeting) was told to leave; this action preventedNAFIN
                                from participating and playing its legitimate role as Recipient and executor of
                               the Project. The State Coordinator for Guerrero opened a separate office in
                               order to be independentfrom NAFlNand CONAFOR. Further evidenceof hos-
                               tility towardthe NationalCoordinatoris providedinAnnex 6.

                                   Becauseof these and other actions, the NationalCoordinator was unableto
                                implement certain components of the Project (e.g., developmentof a biodiver-
                               siiy monitoringscheme as requiredunder Component 3 of the Project). Since
                                August 2003the National Coordinator has spent considerable time in address-
                                ing issues related to these conflicts and working to improve informationflow
                                among Projectbeneficiaries.

                                   Contraryto the Requestors' assertion,the majorityof community representa-
                                tives inthe three States have not expressedthe sense that the NationalCoor-
                                dinator is "persona non grata." While Managementbelievesthat there are no
                                grounds for removing the National Coordinatoras demanded by the Requsst-
                                ors, it notesthat this isa labor issuethat concerns NAFlNand CONAFOR.

   Although we submitted                Requestors are dissatisfied that their demand for the reinstatement oi
our complaint to Bank           theThe
                                     State Coordinator for Oaxaca has not been accepted. This may be based
officials by means of let-          a misunderstandingof the GEF Grant Agreement, which calls for consulta-
ters signed by us, in our       tion with the State Committee regardingthe hiringof a State Coordinator bul
capacity as representa-         does notobligate NAFlNto comply withthe Committee's demands.
tives, and by communal
and municipal authorities,         Following the contract terminations of the State Coordinators for Oaxaca
we failed to receive a          and Guerrero, the NAFlN InternationalSubdireclor responsible for the Projeci
positive response. The
response of [...I               traveledto Oaxaca to participate in a meeting of the State Committeeon Au.
                  the Task      gust 5,2003. At that meeting, hewas subjectedto extreme pressure, which iec
Team Leader, to our let-        him to agree to take up the issue of reinstatement of the State Coordinatorfoi
ters of complaint and to        Qaxaca with the Bank. On August 27, 2003, the NAFIN official wrote to thf
the request of Nacioflal        Bank proposing the reinstatementof the former State coordinator. The Ban1
Financiera, S.N.C.,      the    repliedthat it did not seem prudentto makefurther changes inthe Project unti
entity executing the Pro-       ah independent Evaluation of the Project had been carried out, and that an)
ject in Mexico, for rein-       reappointmentwould have to follow the Sank`s procurement procedures (SAC
statement of our coordina-      Annex 10).
tor, vias de~iialof the "no-
objection," despite the                       most recent supervision mission (January 26-February 5,2004)
fact that the legal agree-      theDuringthe
                                      Bank team found that most stakeholders in the three States were con.
ment was skirted when           cerned much more with successful Project implementationthan with the dis
she was removed.[.    ..]       puts concerning the termination of the State Coordinators' contracts. The In
                                dependent Evaluation was discussed at length and there were repeatedcalls
   We believe that the          to hire new State Coordinators and to continuewith Project implemontationa:
response is unsatisfactory      soon as passible. Following the mid March workshop, the process for `ni;i!-t{
inasmuch as [the Task           new State Coordinatorswill be initiated.
Team Leader] is putting
his
aheadpersonalexplicit re-
                     opinion
        of the
quest of the State Com-
mittee, while being cogni-
zant of the fact that he is



                                                  22

         Mexico COlNBlO
                 -




       violating the legal agree-
       ment and the unanimous
       decision of tho different
       participants inthe Project.

                                       Ip.
           Also, a meeting was            At the November 5, 2003 meeting to which the Requestors refer, a Fact
       hetd on November 5 in            Sheet (Relatoria de Hechos,see Annex 11)was presentedby some members
       :he     COlNBlO      Project     of the State Committee demanding, inter alia, the immediate dismissal of the
       Oaxaca offices with [the         National Coordinator and the reinstatement of the former State Coordinator.
       Sector Leader and an-            The Bank team stated that decisions regarding labor contracts pertainedto
       other Bank specialist], at       NAFINand not to the Bank. However, the National Coordinator, who was rep-
       which it was agreed,             resenting NAFlN at the meeting, had been told by members of the State
       among other things, that        Committeeto leaveseveralhoursearlier, at the outset of the meeting.
       the World Bank would
       authorize       the     "no-       Draft minutes of the meeting (see Annex 12) were prepared and dissemi-
       objection" for the rein-         natedbythe State Administrator inOaxacastating that the Bank had agreedto
       statementof our coordina-        the immediate re-contractingof the former State Coordinator.At the conclusion
       tor, in view of the fact that    of the November 5, 2003 meeting, the StateAdministrator of Oaxacaagreedto
        his removalconsiitutedan        send the draft minutes of the meetingto the Bank prior to broader circulation,
        irregularity. However, a        but this was not done. On November 17, 2003, the two Bank staff who had
       few days after that meet-        been present at the meetingsent a letter to NAFIN copiedto membersof the
        ing, these persons failed       State Committee correcting erroneous statements contained in the Minutes
        to honor the agreements.        regardingthe Bank's commitments(seeAnnex 13).

           [...I SectorLeader
               The
        and Sr. Indigenous Peo-
        ples Specialist] are acting
        in a similar fashion [to the
,...
 .i'    Task Team Leader], by
        failing to     honor     the
        agreement reached in
        Oaxacaon November5.




                                                        23


     BANKMANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
REQUESTFORINSPECTIONPANELREVIEW OFTHE
 IGENOWSAND COMMU"TY BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
                  (GQINJBIO)
    (GEFTRUST     GRANTNO.TF24372)


 INDIGENOUSANID C                    ~ BIQDIVEHPSITYCONSERVATIONPROJECT
                                               ~       ~        ~       Y




                                 NACIONAE FINANCIERA




*MSC.parael
1     EconomiaAmbiental y deRecursosNaturales
 Red       DesarrolloSostenibledeM$$o A.C.

Executive Summary

I.INTRODUCTION
2. ~      ~       T       ~ PROCESS~
                               ~              ~       ~       O    ~  ~ ~  A L

3.1Structural Aspects
3.1.1. Franxworkprovidedby theProjectDocuments
3.1.2. Clear definition ofroles
3.2 OperatimilAspects
3.2.1 Strategic andoperationalplanning
3.2.2 State Committees
3.2.3 Subprojects
3.2.4 Serviceproviders
3.2.5 Project promotion
3.2.6 Evaluationandmonitoring
3.2.7 Impactsonproject targets
3.3 PoliticalAspects
3.3.1 Differentperceptionsof the project approach
3.3.2 The StateCoordinatorsandthe institutional viability of COINBIQ
3.3.3 The cut-rent conflict
4. CONCLUSIONS              RECO           ATIONS
Conclusions
Recomniendations
5. ANNEXES
h e x 1.WORK PLAN,4ND D m O N OF INDICATORS FOR COINBIO PROJECT THE
            PEWOREUIAMCEEVALUATION
Annex 2. Fieldreport of the StateofMichoachn
h e x 3. Fieldreportof the Stateof Oaxaca
Annex 4. Fieldreportofthe StateofGuerrero
Annex 5. Specificproposalsfor changesinthe OperatingManual




                                               28

The Indigenous and Com"ity           Biodkgersity Project (COINBIO) arose as an initiative of the
indigenous communities of Qaxaca's Sierra Juarez. The general objective of the project is to
promote and strengthen community initiatives focusing on the conservation of areas of great
importance for biodiversity in the above states, taking into account the traditional management
practicesandcultural values, includingintensiveparticipation of the comunitjes themselves?

At this stage of the project, there was a needto carry out a generalproject pedomance evaluation,
designed to promote its strengthening, introduce greater eEciency in its operating processes and
improve its managementquality as well as to gain informationto clarify any problems encountered
anddetennine the mostappropriatesolutions orthem

The purpose of the task was to conduct an integratedevaluation of COxNBIO'soperating process,
comprising the period from the signing of the grant agreement and until the month of October,
2003.



The evaluation comprisedareview of the project documents, a series of interviews with its national
counterparts and also a visit to each of the states. During the visit to the three states, there was a
meeting with the State Committees, interviews with the main social and institutional stakeholders,
andfield visits to selected subprojects, where beneficiaries and providers of professional services
were also interviewed.

  eslalts

Generalaspects: the lessonslearnedfromCOlNBIBare:

     1. The participatory anddecentralizedvision contaiiied inthe project designas defined inthe
         PAD, is animportant assetthat shouldbemaintainedandextended.

     2. The project has likewise beenan important "laboratory" providinga seiies of fundamental
         lessons for participatory work and institational design.



     3. The proj'cct dcsign structwc did ni;; zdcquately rcsolve the combhahi WLwecn the
         participatory nature [of the project] andthe specific operationalmechanisms.
     4. The decision taken at the beginning of operations to substitute the position of National
         Coordinator with a National Liaison with amuchlesser weight hEd'negativeeffects sinceit
         reducedthe efficiency of the project operation.


 The COINBIO project is carried out with the support of a grant from the GlobalEnvironment Fund (GEF),
that is channeled through the World Bank and managedin Mexico by Nacional Financiera, both as financial
and execution agent, under the technical supervision of SEMARfdAT (Ministry of Environment, Natural
Resourcesand Fisheries). The project beganinFebruary2061 with the signingof the Legal Agreement and its
organization was initiated onJuneof the sameyear.




                                                  29

rtle.xic0 - COINBIO


     5. There is an ambiguousdefinition of the role of State Coordinatorsand in particular the way
          inwhich the roleis incoi-poratedwithin the operatingprocessandin thechain of command
          since, on one hand, tlley are assignedto the main operatingfactions ineachentity and on
          the other, they are held main!y accountabie for the State Committees, which impinges on
          the verticality of the process, consequently allowing them to operate independently from
          the national unit.
     6. The insufficient operation of the National Comii$ttee has caused a void in the project's
          national and strategic decisionmaking, andhas reducedthe existenceof adequate spacefor
          conflict processingandresolution.
     7. A significant deficiency of the project is the lack of a medim-term project strategic plan,
          w i h a clcw idea cf haw the g~nwdgeds of tk prajec; arc intaxled to 'a xx: +hougti
          time.
     8. The community representativesgenuhely represent the participating communities of the
          project, given that their selections were conducted in a democratic manner. On the other
          hand, the fact that some of the representatives are now no longer comrnunal authorities
          reducesthe legitimacy of their representation.
     9. The selection process of the representatives of the NW's or academic institutions was
          controversial, since it was establishedthat they would be electedby other members of the
          Cormnitteeandthis has already beena source oftrouble.
      10. WiththeexceptionofOauaca, wherethe RegionalNaturalResourcesConxnitteesnormally
          meet once a month, there is no continuousandongoing information andinteractionprocess
          betweenthe representativesand the communities.
      11. CQINBIQsdissemination and communication has taken an important stride forward with
          the Project's web page; however, it is necessary to make greater progress with
           comniunication instrumentsat the state andcommunity levels.
      12. The State Committeesare operating ina normalandadequatemannerandtheir operationis
           generally positively valuedby all the stakeholders.
      13. The processes to select the StateCoordinatorswere transparent, open atid with an intensive
          participation by the Committees, which has been well received and generated significant
          trust.



      14. It was between the approval of the subprojects and the initid disbufsement to the
           communities for the subprojects(between 7 and 12 months) where the major delays took
          place inthe project implementation.
      15. The approvalprocessof subprojects at the State Committees inall three cases took placein
           an open and transparent maimer and thrwigh a collective discussion, which has given the
          project a very good image.
      16. The mechanismof t"fening         the moneyfor the technical studies to the communities is an
           important step forward as compared to other programs. It allowed them to choose the
          provider, establish contractual agreements, and manage the resources and pzyyments
          themselves.
      117. The serious delay that occuired inprocessingthe approvedsxbpmjectscamst be attributed
           to a specific person or to single cause, but rather the delays were the result of the
           combinationof a set of factors which fall mder the responsibility of various indhid~~als.
      18. The general perception that the delays in the operation of the sgbprojects was the
           inefficiency and the excessivebureaucracyinNAFINis not correct, since its administrative
           operationhas beenquite swift and has adequately complied with its role of guaranteeingan
          adeqmteopemion of the adfiinistrsltive procedures.

                                                                              Management Response


   19. Although it is evident that the State Coordinatorsare responsiblefor some of the factors of
       operational delays, they are not the imincauses either. It i s extremelydifficult to conclclde
       that they, or some of them, are fundamentallyresponsible.
  20. The nionitoringandevaluationcomponenthasbeeiineglectedandhas hadlittle progress.

Impactsonthe projecttargets

  21. The subprojects relatedto resource survey and inventory have a very important impact on
       increasing the awareness of the members of the communities and on the incorporation of
       cornminities on the current basis, which may enable the project to meet the target of
       150.000hectaresundercommunity conservation.
  22. The communities that [responded to] the first call [for proposals] shouldbe supported for
       several more years and the project should create incentives through channeling public
       resources.
  23. Qne factor that reduces the project's likelihood of meeting the target of 150.000 hectares
       under sustainable use, is that the subprojects oriented towards that goal (those of Type C
       andD)are thus far a minority, andinsomecasesproblem of a lackoflinkage betweenthe
       subprojectsaxxdthe conservationobjectiveswere detected.
  24. The target of seventy advancedcommunities with active conseivationandintegrateduseof
       resources will not be achieved if the proportion of communities of Types 3 and 4 [is.,
       advanced organizational capacity] that were supported in the fKst call [for proposals]
       reinains the same at only 8% [of all subprojects].
   25. The project is not giving adequate support or incentives such that govemmentai
       institutions as a whole assign investmentresources in a priority and privileged manner to
       the communities with [nature] preserves.
   26. The project is especially lagging behind in regard to the target of generating a sustainable
       marketorgreenproductsand increasingthe commudties' income.




                                                31

PoliticalAspects

   27. The State Coordinators, especially those for Guerrero and Oaxaca, chose to direct the
        COINBIOproject inanun-institutional manner, for whichthe projectwas to be conipletely
       independent from the Federal Government. They chose to strengthen their own position,
       with the social representatives, which led to an estrangement md, in many cases, a
        confrontation ofthe committeeswith some of the [Federal] institutions.
   28. The decision taken by the people with institutional responsibility for the project at the
       national level concerning the tennination of the contracts of two of the coordinators,
       motivated by the previous point, was a measure applied in          Zn

              ,v:*i A
              W      jA,&xxt pT.w.-nt
                                Iur,,U~l.,i,
                                      ,.-e.-alldinaxfflciefitzx&nztiion;.
                                            .-..                            inadequate and unskillful

   29. The conflict stemmed from the early termination of the contracts of the O&xaca and
        Guerrerocoordinatorsneeds to be solvedpromptly.



    1. Modify the projects organizational structure to have greaterclarity inthe clefmition of the
        functions of the State Coordinator, by placing this position ia a chain of command that
        clearly andwithout ambiguity subordinatesitto the NationalCoordinator.
    2. Maintainand expandthe participatory character [of the project] while leaving it very clear
        that the fundamentalproject decisions are takenby the State andNational Committees,and
        that the operating structure will be fully subordinated to such Committees. The State
        Conunittees should continue participating inthe process to select the State Coordinator as
        well as inthe approvalof subprojects.
    3. It i s necessary to strengthen the inanagerial role arid accountability of the National
        Coordinator inthe operation of the project as awhole.
    4. The role of the National Committeeneedsto beempoweredas the entity rcsponsible for the
        project's strategic direction and the space for the making of fundamental decisions and
        resolving conflicts. To that end, threemeasuresareproposed:
            a. First, it is necessary to restructure {the National Committee's] membership to
                   include other important stakeholders: NAFIN (National Financial Agency), CDI
                   (National Commission for the Development of Indigenous Peoples), State
                   Governments. Also, the number of coinmunity representativesshould be increased
                   to two per state.
            b. Second, it is suggested that an internal structure of the National Committee (an
                   Executive Board) be established, making it possible to execute the institutional
                   leadershipof S E m A T (Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources), the
                   administrativeandfinancial leadership of NAFINandthe operational leadershipof
                   the National Coordinator.
            c. Third, iti s necessarythat an opera,tiond mechanismfor the NationalComdtteebe
                   established, providing that at least once a year there should be a meeting of the
                   National Conmiittee withits owners, that is, the heads of eachof the institutions.
     5. The representatives of the comunities should be Presidents (or at least members) of the
        Commissariat (Cornisariado)of their Community. When the representatives stop 1ioldinga
        community office, they should be replaced; the former reprcsentativewill continue as an
        advisorto the new representathe, for a periodof six months.
     6. The representatives of the N o ' s andAcademic institutions shouldbe elected ina meeting
        which is as representativeas possib!e of saidorganizationsin each state.




                                                     32

                                                                           Management Response


 7. Another urgent task is the project's strategic planningto estab!ish a multi-year framework
   that defines the pace at which the project intends to meet the project's targets a d general
   indicators.
 8. Communication instruments are urgently neededat the state and coim"ity levels.
 9. Itis impoitant to carry out acollective review of the factors that havebeenidentifiedas the
   causeof operationaldelays with the purposeof correctingthem
10. Itis necessary to immediately take actionsto set up an integratedinformationsystemmd a
    series of mechanisms to monitor biodiversity and the process of community capacity
   building.
11. Secure the continuous support to the Type 1 and 2 comnunities [low organizational
   capacity] with Type A projects, selectingthose that hadthe bestresults.
12. ktensivdy strengthenthc specific activities orientztedto re`zso~celnanagemmr md to ths
   modification of the operating d e s of other programs with the aim of allocating greater
   investmentresourcesto thecommunitieswith effective conservationschemes.
13. Increase the participation of advanced communities, especially in Sierra Norte of Oaxaca,
    seekingto carry out Type C andDsubprojects.
14. Place greater emphasis on the aspects of generation of green markets and integration of
    sustainableproductionchains.
15. Urgently seek a political solution of the current conflict, basedon dialogue andnegotiation
   betweenthe parties.Tothat end, the following i s require8:
      a.    Theparties shouldacknowledgethe problemseachcontributedto generate, ie., the
            Coordinators, their extreme interpretation of the project`s autonomy and their
            promotion of the estrangement with the institutions; and the national players, on
            their part, their incorrect [management] of the termination of the Coordinators
            contracts.
      b.    Achieve a renewedcommitment for absoluterespect to the rules of theproject, as a
            basisfor trust building.
      c.    Proceedto make the project structural changes and selection of new Oaxaca and
            GuerreroState Coordinatorsas soonas possible.
      d.    After the workshop to reach consensus on the structural modifications, hold a
            session of the National Committee that marks a new stage in the priiject's
            development.
      e.    Move as quickly as possibleinlaunching the secondcall [for proposals] inOaxaca
            andGuerrero.




                                              33

Mexico - COlNEIO


4. CONCLUSIONSAND ~             ~   O    ~    E    ~    A    T   ~     O    ~    §



GeneralAspects: thelessomthat.canbedrawnfromCOhWkO

    1, The participatory anddecentralizedvisioncontainedintheproject designas definedinthe
       PAD (Project Appraisal Document), i s an important finding and asset that should be
       maintainedaidextended.

    2. The project has also h e n an important "laboratory" hat provides series of fundamend
                                                                           SL
       lessons for participatory work and the institutional and social design of pr0gair-sorjented
       to the conservationof biodiversity, and to the promotion of the sustainabledevelopmentof
       indigenousandcampesinocommunities.



   3.  The project's design structure failed to adeqcatdy resolve the combination [contradiction]
       between its participatory character and the specific operating mechanism, and as a result
       its development took place inthe context of serious tension betweenthe idea of a strongly
       participatory and decentralized operation, in which the major decisions are taken by the
       committees with apredominantparticipation of the communities and, on the other handthe
       administrative operation centralizedunder the responsibility of a receiver organization. The
       lack of solution to this problem inthe project designi s a major factor inthe problemsthat
       subsequentlyaroseinits operation.

   4.  The decision taken at the beginning of the operation to substitute a National Coordinator
       for a National Liaison with much less authority had negative effects by reducing the
       project's operationalefficiency, since it was not possible to establisha national articulated
       vision andthe relationshipbetweenthe administrative processesandthe StateCoordinators
       becamecomplicated.

   5.  There is an ambiguous and inconvenient definition of the roleof the StateCoordinatms and
       inparticular ofthe wayinwhichthey areinscribedintheoperatingprocessandinthechain
       of commandsince, on the onehand, they are assignedthe mainoperating functions ineach
       entity, which requires a vertical command line that would allow for an efficient operating
       process and, ontheother, the OperatingManualestablishesthat the coordinatorsare rniiinly
       accountable to the State Committees, which vulnerates the necessary verticality of the
       processand opens up a gap for themto operateindependentlyfrom the nationalunit.

   6.   The insufficient operation of the National Committee has created a void in the project's
       national <andstrategic.decision making, andhas reduced adequate spaces for the processing
       andresolution ofintemal conflicts inalegitimate manner.

   7. An important project deficiency is the absence of a medium-term project strategic plan
       clearly indicating how the project geaeral targets are intended to be met in the various
        stages throughout the project and thus providing a li*age       of the project targets 2nd
       objectiveswiththe annualoperatingplans, while settinga clear basisfor evaluation.




                                                 34

8. The coillnzunity representatives are clearly representativeof the communities participating
   in the project, since both in the Natural Resources Committees in Oaxaca. acd in the
   regional meetingscan-ied    out in the two other states, the elections of representatives were
   conducted ina deinocratic marJler and those sdected effectively coumted with the support
   of the majority of the conmwity authorities convenedto thzt end, although the fact that
   severd of the repremtatives are no longer communal authorities detracts from the
   legitimacyof their representation.

9.  The selection process of the representatives of NWs or academic institutions is
   controversial, since the Operating Manual states the same will be chosen,by the other
   members of the Committee, something which has already caused problem, specifically in
   Otxaca, where the State Coordinator changed this representative without consulting the
   NGO's andgeneratedillfeelings andprotests.

10. With the exception of the case of Oaxaca, where the Natural Resources Regional
   Cnmittees normally meet once a month, and amongmany other issues related to forestry,
   the CQINlBlQaffairs are alsoreported anddiscussed, there is no ongoing sustainedprocess
   for information and intenetion between the representatives and the communities, since
   there arenoperiodical meetings to report ontheprogressofthe COINBIOaffairs.

11. The generation of COINBIO dissemination and comnunication instruments has made a
    m j o r step forward with the Project's web page. However, it is necessqto move forward
   with communication instruments at the state level, andabove all, at community level.

12. The State Committees are operating in a regular and adequate manner and they are
    generally very positively valuedby all the st&eholders aadthey are speciallyrecognized by
    the communities as an important space to be maintainedand as a fundamental virtue and
    asset of the project,

13. The processes of selection. of the State Coordinators were transparent, open and involved
    anintensiveparticipationofthe Committees, somethingwhichhasbeenwelcomed fromthe
    start by all andhas generatedalot of projecttrust.




14. It was between the approval of the subprojects and the initial disbursement to the
    communities, wid1 7 to 12 months elapsing, where the m j o r delays took place in the
    project operation.

15. The approval process of subproject by the State Committees was inall thee cases carried
    out inan open and tramparent maimerand thro:lsglia collective discussion, which has given
    the project a very good image and has mancigedto gain the trust of the various partkipmts,
    especially the communities.

16. The mechanisms of money zansfer for the technical studies to the commmities which
    allowed themselves to choose their provider, establish contractual agreements for the
    provision of professionalservices, nunage the money and pay, represents an important step
    forward as comparedto other suchprograms.




                                             35

17. Itis not possibleto attributethe serious delaythat occurredduriag the stage of management
    of the app-ioved su5projects to a specific person or to a single cause, but rather the delays
    were caused by a codination of a series of factors that are the responsibility of various
    individuals.

18. The general perception that the delays in the operation of the subprojects was the
    inefficier.cy andexcessivebureaucracy inNAFINis notcorrect, and it was rather promoted
    by some Srate Coordinators since, although in some cases, it is possibleto attribute certain
    dday factors to NARN, actually its administrative operation has been qiuite agile and has
    adequately fulfilled its role of guaranteeing an adequate operation of the adminislrative
    proceckrcs.

19. Likewise, it is not possible to hold the State Coordinators responsible of being the major
    mise of the delays, althoughit i s evident that they are responsiblefor several of the factors
    of operational delay. Butitcannot, inany way, beconcludedthat they, or some of them are
    nainly responsible.

20. The evaluation aad monitoring component allowing for studies to be conducted, and the
    building of a database to measure the protected biodiversity and the strengthening of
    community capacities, has beenpractically neglectedandhasmadenoprogress.



2I.. The resource surveying and invenQrying projects that are being developed have a very
    important impact on the awii;reness of the members of the coimunity regardingthe needto
    preserve biodiversity and provide fop. community reserves. A clear willingness of the
    comunities to establish community reserves has been perceived. Should the pace of
     incorporation of cornminities be sustained, it would be possible to meet the target of 150
    thousandhectaresunder corrrmunity conservation.

22. However, the comniunities that responded to the first call [for proposals] need to be
     supported orseveral more years and Lhe project should encourage them by peoritizingthe
    channeling of public resources fromother governmentalprog-dms.

23. One factor that reduces the project's likelihood of achieving the target of [placbcing]150
    thousand hectares under sustainable use i s the fact that the subprojects oriented towards
    that goal (Types C and D) are until now a minority in the portfolio, and in some cases,
    problems of lack of aclose linkage betweenthe subprojects andthe conservationobjectives
    were found, as well as dificulties for COlNBIO to flmance in hiallthe support requirement
     for those projects.

24. The target of seventy advancedcommunities with active conservationand integrateduse of
     resources will not be achievzble if the proportion of Type 3 and 4 communities [advanced
     organizational capacity] that were supported inthe first call [for proposds] is malntined,
     sincethey represent only 8% of the total subprojectsapproved.

25. The project has placed inadequate attention to project promotion so as to nuinstreamthe
     [federal] governments and their programs, together with their standards znnd proceduresto
     provide priority resources to those colnrriunities that manage to establish effective
     conservation schenies in their2territories. The reasonfor this is iirat, on the oix hand, there


                                               36

                                                                                Mmiigeinerit Response



        has beer, a process of institutional isoiaiion by the project, and on the other, the project i s
        not conducting defined and specific activities desigr,ed towards resourcemanagement aqd
        the streainliniiig of the operating niles in coordination with other forestry programs with
        suficient intensity.

    26. The project is parikularly lagging behind in the target of generating sustainable market s
        for greenproductsandincreasingcomnunity hcoine.




    27. Within a framework of a series of conditions of a structural ngture, relatingto the design
        and conception of the project, and of an episodical nature, under the circuinstances in
        which its operation began, the State Coordinators, especially in Guerrero and Oaxaca,
        chose to take a rather non-institutional stance of the COl[NBIO project, according to which
        it was conceived to be completely independent from the Federal government, and they
        chose to strengthen their own positions with the social representatives. Inthat sense, they
        carried out apoliticalmanagement of the project whichgenerated acrisis of an institutional
        nature, tended to strengthenthek own position and created an estrangement and inmany
        cases aconfrontation of the State Committeeswith some of the [federal] institutions.

    28. The decision by the institutional heads of the project at the national levelto terminate the
        contracts the two State Coordinators (as a result of what was pointed out above) was a
        measure that was applied in an inadequate, unskilled way, with incorrect procedures and
        badly explained. This led it to evolve from a crisis caused by the attitude and positions of
        the State Cowilinators, into another one generated by the incorrect way in which the
        intendedsolutionwas instrumented.

    29. The conflict originating in the early termination of the contracts of the Oaxaca and
        Guerrero coordinators should be resolved, since this circumstance is what currently
        maintains the Project trapped, generating not only highfinancial costs, but also costs in
        term cdthe level of credibility of allof CON3IO's social stakeholders.




At this level of developmentof CQINBEO, it is recognizedthat a series of actions are required to
reorient it towards meeting the designed objectives and targets. It is importait to m t e that these
actions shouldbeagreedwithallstakeholders, to avoidlosingthe participatory approachthat makes
COINBIB the leading edge in strengthening the social, human and natural capital of the
co~n"i"rir=s, fosteringiiiliovakive paiticipatioii MA eiilyowermejnii l ~ d ~ a nini the~coinriiunittes,
                                                                                     ~    ~ s
resulting inincreasingthe protectionofbiodiversity insouthernMexico.

It is necessary to resolve the teiision between the project's participi;tofy and operating charzcter,
strengthening the former, but setttg the conditions to malce it possible to develop an efficient
operation. To that end, the followingmeasures are proposed:

    1. Modify t!ie project's organizational structure to more clearly define the functions of the
        State Coordinator, by placing the position within a chain of command, to clearly 23d
        unanibiguously subordinate it to the National Coordinator. That is, establish chat the
        supervisor of the State Coordinator is the National Coordinator, to establish a verticality



                                                   37

   that introduces efficiency in the operating processes that need to be carried otit in a
   managerialandexeccrivemanner.

2. However, the paxticiptory feature shouldbe maintainedand extended, by clearly providing
   that the project's major decisions are t&en by the Sate Committees and the National
   Committee, in their respective areas of csnpetence, and that the operating structure, that
   will be headedby the National Coordinator, wil! 5e fully subordinatedto suchComittees.
   Sn other words, the supervisor of the National Coordinator and the State Coordinators are
   the NationalCommitteeandthe State Committees in their respectiveareas of competence.
   h o n g the powers that the State Committees should retain i s their participation in the
   process of selectkg the Staak Coordiriator, tlut shodd bs repeaidhiexactly the sane way
   as it was done at the beginrLing of the project, and above all, their role in defining and
   managingthe processesof call [for proposals] and inthe analysis andapproval of the same.
   It will be very helpful to have the rules of each of the State Committees reviewed and
   approvedby theNational Committee.

3. Thus, the managerial and accountability role of the National Coordinator should be
   strengthened, both by means of the measures mentioned above and with others such as
   appointing the position as Executive Secretaryof the National Committee, 2ndestablishing
   this positionmoreclearly as the main authority of the project's operationas a whole.

4. It is necessary to enhance the role of the National Committee as the entity responsiblefor
   the project's global and strategic direction, the instance for fundamental decision tnakhg
   and conflict resolution with h-ansparency and legitimxy. To that end, three measures are
   proposed:

         a. First, it is necessary to restructure its membership to include other important
            stakeholders. Interms of institutional players, it i s proposedthat the followjng be
            foimlly included: NMTN, the NationalCommission of IndigenousPeoples(CDI)
            and the State Governments.The participation of the commmities should likewise
            be strengthened, expandingthe numberofrepresentativesto two per state.

         b. Second, set up an internal structure in the National Committee (an Executive
            Board) intended to execute the institutional leadership of SEMAWAT, the
            administrative and financial leadershipof NARNandthe operational leadershipof
            the NationalCoordinator. ThisExecutive Boardcould bemadeup of rise Secretary
            of S E M M A T or the Director General of CONAFOR (National Forest
            Commission) as President,NMlNas Vice President, andthe NationalCoordinator
            as Executive Secretary. Such Executive Board could meei in beclveeu the
            Conunittee's sessions, to expedite proceduresand agreements.

         c. Third, a mechanismOFoperation of the NationalCommittee shouldbe established,
            suchthat at least once a year, a meeting of the Natiocd Coinmiltee i s heldwith its
            owners, with the participation of the heads of each of the imtitutions,
            notwithstanding other more frequeat meetings being held with i!i$    paticjpation of
            alternate representatives.This ordinary meeting for annual evafuatioii, assessment
            and strategic orientation should be convened by the Secretary of SEMMAT or
            by the Director General of CONAFOR, and should be a way of inforning the
            heads of the institutions on the development of the project, defining strategic
            orieatatiorisandmsYnghigh leveldecisions. It is praposedtitat the first meellng nt

                                                                         Mnnngenierir Response



           this level be held as soon as possible, immediately after the workshop, and that it
           serveto re-orientthe project for the future.

5.  Inorderto strengthenthe accountability ofits membersbeforetheir constitwncies, iiiclude
   inthe OperatingManual the provision that the representativesof the communities shorild
   be Presidents (w at ieast members) of the Comnlissariat of their Community. Incase the
   appointed representatives no longer hold a position of authority within their com-~iunity,
   they shall be replacedby the newly electedofficial, although the former representativemay
   continue attendingthe Committee, withthe rightto speak andinan advisorycapacity to the
   new representative. for aperiod of six months.

6.  'The Operating Manua! should be modified to establish that the representatives of tne
   NWsandacademic institutions shouldbe electedata meetingthat isas representativeas
   possible of such organizationsineach state. Likewise, it shouldbeprovided that the NW
   or member of academia participating as representative before the State Committee can be
   part of the roster of providers of Professional Services and compete for the execution of
   subprojects.

7.  Another urgenttaskis the project's strategicplanning,generatingamulti-year framework to
   define the pace at which the project's targets andgeneral indicatorsare intended to be met,
   and serving as the basis for the development of Annual Operating Plans with committed
   impacttargets, andthe frameof referencefor the evaluation.

8.  Comniunications instruments are urgently needed at the state and community level. These
   could be periodical bulletins, or even a well designed poster presentation to reach the
   interior of the communiiies, allowing infolmtion to flow more consistently from the
   Committees to the various stakeholders, mainly the community members, and not only to
   their representativesor authorities.

9.  Although some of the obstacles that delayedthe execution of the subprojectshave already
   been overcome, it is important to carry out a collective review of the factors identified as
   the cause of operational delays to correct them and manage to overcome the project's
   learning curve to achieve greater expediency in the operating processes. The negative
    experiences of the first call [for proposals] should be addressed to achiwe greater
   efficiency in the subsequent ones. In terms of the second call [for proposals], it is
   recommended that defined timeframes are established for the submittal of technical
   proposals by service providers. They should be infomied that the submittal date for
   proposalsis unextendable.

10. It is necessary to immediately start up the actions designed to create M integrated
   management information system and a set of mechanisms and methodologies to monitor
   biodiversity andthe processof community strengthening. An important aspect is generating
   mechanisms to review the technical quality of the studies developed by the providers of
   professionalservices.

11. Ensurethe continuity of support for Type 1and 2 comunities that hadType A projects,
   selecting those that obtained better results, to consolidate the process of defining
   conservationareas and achievethe formal establishmentof community reserves.




                                            39

12. htensive strengthening of specific and defined activities i s required, oriented to resource
   management and modifying the oper&ing rules with the zim of investmentresources being
   allocated in a prioiity mnner to the communities that establish effective coiiservaticn
    schemes in their territories. CQINBKYs institutional coordination and articulation are
   fundamental instrumentsto effectively achieveits targets andindicators.

13. It is necessary to modify the proportion of the types of cOmmunities and subprojects,
    increasingthe participation of advanced cornmunities, especially in SierraNorte of Oaxaca
    andattemptingjo carry out Type C andDsubprojects.

14. The Natilral Resourccs CoiiWktees of 0a;rrrcashoiild be strengthescd, since these are
    important information and discussionfora that focus beyond COINEIOand therefore have
    the potential to contribute to establishingbetterrelations betweenthe CONMQR projects
    and COINBIO. Likewise, in Guexero and Michoacdn, more intensive actions are
                                                ,
   recommen6ed to foster community pdlcipation in the regions where the project is
    operating in order to strengthen the existing spaces and fora and make progress towards
    settingupNaturalResources Committees.

15. Greater emphasis should be placed on the aspects connectedwith the generation of green
    markets, integration of sustainable production chains and mechanisms to enhance "hard"
    economic variables, especially the communities' income but also production, productivity,
    capitalization andemployment.

16. A resolution is urgently needed for the current conflict, basedondialogue andnegotiation
    between the parties, and the recognition of past mistakes, makingit possible to minimize
    the negative implications for all the stakeholders, and avoiding a sihiation in which one
    party wins at the expense of the other. If a win-lose situation cannot be avoided, then the
    project will be the general loser. The solution to the conflict should be consistent with
    COINBIOsparticipatory spirit, requiresgreat caution andtolerancein order to preservethe
    processes that the same Project has fostered. It is a matter of resumingthe processand, on
    that basis, generating the changes needed for its successful continuation. To that end, the
    following is required:

         a. The parties should aclmowledgethe problems each contributed to generate, that is,
            the State Coordinators, their extreme interpretation of the project's autonomy and
             their promotion of the esfxangement with the [federal] institutions; the national
            players, on their part, their incorrect handling of the implementation of the exil of
             the State Coordinators.
         b. Thereshouldbearenewedcommitmentto absoluterespectfor theprojectrules, as
             a foundation to buildtrust.
         c. Proceed with the project's structural changes and the sdeciioa of new State
             CoordinatorsinOaxacaandGuenero, as soonas possible.
         d. kger %heworkshop to agree on the structural modifications, hold a session of the
             NationalCommittee, markingaR ~ stageinthe project'sdevelopment.
                                                  W
         e. Proceedas soon as possible to launchthe second call [orproposals] inOaxacaand
             Guerrero.




                                              40

                                      e(?




CDI         Comisidnnacionnl dePueblos Indigenas(National ConmGssion
            of Indigenous Peoples)
            Proyectode Conseivacidnde la Biodiversidaden Comiinidndes
            Indigenas (Indigenous andCommunityBiodiversity
            ConservationProject)
CQN-AFOR    National Forest Commission
NAFIN       Nncional Financiera (National FinancialAgency)
NGO         Non-Government Orgmizattion
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
SEMARNAT    Secretariade Medio Anzbiente, y RecursosNaturales (Ministry
            of Environment, and Natural Xesources)




                           41


              BANKMANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
         REQUEST FORINSPECTIONPANELREVIEW OFTHE
MEXICO: I        ~AND COMMUNITYBIODIVERSITY~O~~~~~~~~~~
                          ~         ~       E        ~    ~   ~
                     PROJECT(CGINssIO)
             (GEFTRUSTFUNDGRANTNO.TF24372)




                           nnex 3.
                  diveness Letter,


TheWorld Bank/ Banes                                             lnsurgentesSur 1605 piso24    Tel (525)480-4200
                                 ~~~~~~~

`-jrERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT            SanJose lnsurgentes           Fax(525)480-4222
.TERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                               MBxico, D.F. 03900



                                                                                                  June 22,2001

              Act. Alonso Garcia Tam&,
              Director General de CrCditoMbiico,
              Secretai-ia de Hacienday CrCditoPcblico,
              hsurgentes Sur # 826, Piso9,
              Co!.DelValle,
              03100Mdxico, D.F.

              Lic. Roberto Casillas,
              Director Intemacional,
              NacionalFinanciera, S.N.C.,
              lnsurgentesSur # 1971,Torre 4, Fiso8,
              Col. GuadalupeInn,
              01020 Mkxico, D.F.




                        Please disregard the letter which was sent to you earlier. This wording precedes that of
              the earlier version.


                        IampleasedtonotifyyouthattheBankacceptsevidencesubmittedinfulfillmentof
              conditions precedent to effectiveness of the grant agreement for the Indigenous Community and
              Biodiversity Conservztion Project, dated February 1, 2001, between the Bank, Nacional
              Financiera (NAFIN)and the United Mexican States. Likewise, the fulfillment of the position of
              National Coordinator has been waived given the fact that part his or her functions or
              responsibilities have been vested in staff already working under the project or in SEMARNAT        '


              and partly in the state coordinators under the authority of the State Committees. Consequently,
              the grant agreement becomes effective on June21,2001.


                                                            Regards,




                                                         Adolfo M z z i
                                                        Acting Director
                                                    Country Management Unit
                                               Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela

              cc:       Lic. Ricardo Ochoa, Director de OrganisrimsFinancieros Intemacionales, SHCF
                        Lic. Claudia Orayeb, Director3de Coordinacih Sectorial y MedioAmbiente, SHCP

                                                    e .

       Lic. Arturo Escobedo, Titutarde laUnidadde Financiamientos Multilaterales, NAFIN,
       Lic. Federico Patiiio, Director Altemo de Fkanzas, NAFIN,
       Lic. Luis Catin, Subdirector de FinancianGentosIntemaccionales, NAFIN,
       Dr.Gerard0 Segura, Coordinador Nacional, SEMARNAT
       &a. Olga Ojeda, Titular UnidadCoordinzrdora de Asuntos Internacionales,
       SEMARNAT
       Lie. Rad1Arriaga, Subsecretariode Gesti6n para laFrotecciSnAmbiental, SEMA62NAT


6.6.Messrs.Mmes. Lafourcade, Ord&ez,          Canaseo, Hemhdez, Franc0 (LCClC); Serra,
Cervigni, Fdix-CasEdieda, Bradley, Sheyardson, Isaac, Eedec (LCSGN); Sarmiento, Seniiaan,
Smyle, Cackler (LCStER); Redwood, Nielsen, Roncal, De Laurentiis, Baltar (LCSES); Molnar
(LEGOF); Martinez, Davis, Tumale-Habib, Uquillas, Avellan, Abedin (LCSEQ); Del Castilio
(MNSRE); Rojas, Abousleiman (LQAG3)




                                               46

                                     7

               B A mMANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
        WEQUEsT FORINSPECTIONPAIWLREVIEWOFTHE
MEXICO: PNDIGENCWSAND COmUNITYBIODHVERSITY CONSE
                     PROJECT(COINBIB)
              (GEF TRU§TFUNDGRANTNO.TF24342)




                     - 1


                                                      Ixtlande Juarez, Oaxaca, 16December2003

/TO:] Members of the State Committee of the COIN610 Project

The undersigned, membersof the NaturalResourceComnlittee of the Sierra Norte of Oaxaca
respectfully address ourselvesto you to express our concern for the lack of progressinthe
GOINBIOproject inour State and, at the same time, we requestthat you take measuresto allow
the project to go forward.

Vie consider the project to be a resultof the efforts our communities inthe Sierra Norte sincewe
took the first steps to makethis project areality.

Followingall the requirements, in2002, we presentedour requests [for subprojects] but they
were not supported, the reasons for which we now demandan explanation.

We are aware that, during the last six months, the COINBIQ State Comnittee has dedicateditself
exclusively to the situation createdby the termination of [the contracts of] the State Coordinator
by NacionalFinanciera. We feel that it i s not the StateCommittee butrather NAFWthat should
tend to labor disputes with its personnel, while the StateCommittee should tend to the requests
from Oaxaca Communities.

We call uponthe Institutions representedinthe COINBIQ StateCommittee, and especially our
comrades who representcommunities, to work for the benefit of the communities andto avoid
delays inthe project.

Likewise, we requestwith specialemphasis, that the Requestfor Proposalsfor 2003 be issued
immediately so that COINBIOdoes not close off the opportunities to support ow communities. It
would a shame ifCOINBIO, which was developedout of Community Demands, is not able to
respond to our proposals.

We have waited patiently for more thanone year for our projectproposals to be consideredby
CQINBIObut we are disappointedthat the Committee has given higher priority to dealwith
labor disputesthanto the interestsof the communities. We are also afraid that the project may
close becauseof the conflict situation that we axe now undergoing and this concerns us agreat
deal.

By &hismeans, we issuea fraternal and respectful call to the StateCommittee for the project not
to bedelayed andthat it shall take the necessary measuresto allow it to go forward inbenefit of
our commiiities. We should not permitit lo be saidthat the project has generaitxi social
conflicts and that, for this reason, it should closedown. We shall not continue to allow NAFI"s
labor disputesto affect the progressof our project. Iti s not fair that we are left out or that we
should bedeniedthe support that we deserveas muchas other brother comunities.

We urge the State Committee to pay attention to this matter and to take the argent measures
riecessany for the project to continue to allow COIN310 to continue its progress.

                                          Executive Committee of the Natural ResourceConlmittee

                                                                         [Twenty-Three Signatures]

50



Nacional Financiera


                                                                                July 30,2003

M s .
TainniaC a m " Edpez
Coqrdinator of the CQINBIOPrbject inOaxaca
Address: PfesaTezoyoNo. 168-3
Col. JLrrgaci6n
Mexico, D.F.
Zip Code 11500


Iamwriting inreferenceto the (contract) agreement for professional services
W/CQ/22/2003 signed between Nacional Financiera S.N.C., in its capacity as
Implementation Agency of Grant TF-024372 from the Global Environment Facility and
you, dated January 2, 2003, pursuant to which your professional services were contracted
to serve as the StateCoordinator of the Project inQaxaca.

In relation to this matter, inthe meetingsheldwith representativesof the World Bank and
the NationalForestry Co"ission       to discuss the progress of the Project, it was agreed to
restructure the Project with the slim of developing synergies between the public sector
entities involved in its development. This has required a redefinition of the role of the
staff responsiblefor the Project at state level, inview of the different profilenecessary for
its operation.

In'accordance with the above, and pursuant to Clause Eleven of the above-mentioned
agreement for the provision of services, Ihereby inform you of the decision madeby this
Institutionfor the early termination of the contract for professional services as of August
15, 2003. Consequently, starting on the date of notification of this letter, all activities that
mayrelate to theprovision of servicesshall be suspended.

In view of the above, andbased upon the final pait of Clause Eleven, we kindly request
that you to send us the Final Report on the progress of the activities of the Work Plan
performedby saidCoordination.

Sincerely yours,

TIMQTEQELLIOTHARRISKOWARD
Director

c. EngineerFranciscoChapelaMendoza-National Coordinator CQKN'BliO-CQNMQIR

                                  T 1


                                     II
               ]BANKMANAGEMENTRESPONSETQ
         REQUESTFORINSPECTIONBANELREVIEWOF THE
MEXICO: INDIGENOUSAND COMPVIBJNITY~    ~       ~CONSERVATION
                                                    ~    ~   ~ E  ~
                    PROJECT(COINHgIO)
              (GEFTRUST FUNDGRANT NQa  TF24372)


From: Joyce Garcia Sosa                   +    *  .    otmail.com




Date:      11/12/2003 1011PM

Subject: TQDAYISTHED E m L N

Adin:

Today it's one week fromthe meetingandsofar we havenot hadan answer fromthe WorldBank
or from NAI;INonthe agreementsmade. Mr. Kellembergpromisedthat at the most inoneweek
this would be settled. What i s going on?Are they taking us for fools or what?He said lie didnot
needto have the minutesto be ableto talk to NAd3.N.

Why haven't youexpeditedthe proceedings?That i s your responsibility. What haveyou beendoing
thatyou lime notbeenontop of things?You areTespoosiblefor this not fiowing.

I t i s clear that Arturo Garciawantedto delay mattersby tryingto refute Romh(Aquino), c!aiming
that what the report says inconnectionwith the visit of @k"sco)     Chapelato the SierraNorte
Committeei s alie, but he m d enoobjection to the minutes. Our OK was inplace sinceFridayjust
likethat of the hstitute andyou saidyou would wait untilthe endofthe weektg sendit. Nobody
else has nude comments andit i s taken for grantedthat everybody isinagreement. Beforethe
meetingendedthe agreementswere reviewed andeverybody was inagreement. WHAT ISGOING
ON?The evaluationis about to beginandthe coordinator has to bethere.

Mi.Chapelaneedstoberemindedthat heshouldnotattenipttodisruptthingsandtry tc m k eit
seemthat there are noagreements. Heevenwasn`t at the meeting. How darehe tell youwhy are you
sendingthe minutesifthereis noconsensusabout it?Allof us who were therereviewedthe
agreementsbefore leavingthe meetingso it was agreedshady since then. He's the onehyingto get
usfighting[among ourselves].

-We askyou to expeditethis matter as soonas possible. Tell us, what is needed?Talk to the World
Bankpeople, to Mr.KeilembergandMr. Marthez, who were the ones who madethecommitment
andaskthem what is going on. Ifthere isnofavorable answer duringthis week, we arenot goingto
wait any longer to go LOthe hspectionPalei. ENOUGHOFBEINGPLAYEXjLIKEFOOLS!

Itisyou, Adin,thatwewillholddirectly responsibleifwe donotgetananswer.

Sincerely,

Community members of the COlNElIOcommittee

Joyce Garcia Sosa, representative of COSTA
RoidnAquino Matias, President ofthe Comrmiss~atof htlinde Juirez, SierraNorte
Arturo RuizGonzilez, representativeof the YAUTEPEC-ISTMQ
Sergio Garcia Mendoza. Presidentofthe Commissariatof SantaMaria Huatulco




                                     x




                                              58

From:            Joyce Garcia Sosa                     . .     otmail.com




Date:            11/17/20030436PM

Subject:         Re: Observationsonthe Mhutes of OrdinaryMeeting# 39 datedNovember 5,
                 2003 ofthe COINBIOStateComrnitteeinOaxaca. .

IanircaiIysurprised.Icm'tbdiweit.Thecl;rrifiC&ioii letterthit?&.Mclleiribeigsextitohb.
Escobedoha5beenas ofthe markas allthe proceduresthat havebeenfollowed since unilaterally
they took the decisionto enrageusby nottakingus nor the peopleswe represent into account and
removethe State Coordinator. We were working ina harmonic mmer, with problems and
shortcomings,yes, but inharmonyandwith the wish to move the project forward for the benefitof
our peopleswho still believeinthe project. We believed inthe goodfaithandcoherenceofW.
Kellemberg andMr.Maninez. We believedthey hadunderstoodour issues. They witnessedom
rejection towards Mr.Chapela. We discussedthe problemsinanadult way andthey listened and
we listencd to their points of view. We should have listenedto the governmentof the State when it
saidthat the HIGHLEVELmeetingwas not takingplace, because aroundthe table there were no
peoplemakingdecisions. We believedinMr.Kellemberg that hecould do it, becausehs told us
categorically that he was the bosscf DanGross and that at leastonce he taikedto Mr.Escobedo.Iie


                                                59

Mexico - COINEiO


uiidertook to talk to (Mr.Escobedo) to accelerate the process ofrehiiringthe Coordinator andthey
as the Bank wou!d providethe no-objectionthat months ago they haddenied without reasonto
NacionalPinanciera,when [Nacional Financiera] they wantedto fix theproblemby rehiringthe
Coordinator andbegin an evaluationphasethat we ourselvesrequested. Itis obviousfor everybody
that the problemthat we havebeenexpressingat thetop of our voices i s the continuation of the
[National] Coordinator,becausewe cannotconceiveof an objectiveevaluation, on a decision
poorly nade. TheBanktells usthat we shouldhavebeenconsultedinthe decisionnuking. The
legaldocument signedbetweenthem andour governmentsays so. Butit will haveto be the next
time, sinceinthisopportunity they can't anditis obvious,becausethey wouldberecognizingthat
they fumbled (but at least they would be demonstratingtheir goodwill inrecognizing and
correcting the mistake). Butthey clingto denying oiice and againthat they didnotfumble. The
serious thingis thatthey want to treat us like idiots, it is not enoughthat they treat us like
despicableIndians.No, they call us IDIOTS, IDIOTS, becausenow itturns out that we, allthe
members of the CoinmitteeareIDIOTS, MENTALRETARDS, becausethey never said what they
said, we misunderstood,they NEVERsaidthey would talkto WAFINto restartthe rehiringprocess.
What ajoke, what disrespect against us.Ifwe accept this letter as true, we wouldberecognizing
that we are what they believeus to be, that we areIDIOTS, andgentlemen, allow meto tell you that
at leastinYautepec-Istmo,our peoplearepoor, needy, humblebutneverIDIOTS. Mi-.Kellemberg
andMr.Martinez, beadvised, we arenotboot-lickers, we arewarriors, withprecedents of social
struggle against injustice. It is timeyou know who we are. Our peopleare readyto take your
facilities, Mi.ESCGMO,    ifyoucontinuehyingtohumiliateusinthisway. OFCOURSEWEDO
NOT ACCEPT A SlwGLE ONEOFYOUR SUGGESTIONSTO CHANGETHEMINUTES,
BECAUSEITREFLECTSWHAT WE AGREED, NOMOREAND NOLESS, OUR
COMMITTEEAGREEMENTS ARE NOT~GO'TIABLE.

ITTURNS OUTTHATNOWFROMYOURDESKSYOUREVIEW"333IvIINUTWAN19
SAY CHANGETHEMBECAUSEYOUDONOTLIKETHEWAY THEYARE. DONOT
DAREINTERFEREWITHOURDECISIONS BECAUSEvI?EWILLNOTSTANDFOR3T.WE
WILLNOTSIGNANY MINUTESDIW"                           TO TPIEOWEIALREADY SIGNED IN
REPRESENTATIONOFMYPEOPLES.

We are alreadytalkingto Mr.Abbot and we'll see each other at the InspectionPanel. Gentlemen
fromtheWorldBank,we arenotlosers, andarereadyfor everything.We areawareifthe riskswe
runand,we holdyouresponsibleifourphysicalintegrity orthat ofourfamilies isaffected.Butwe
will notbudge.UNDERSTAND ITWELL.

This weekIwillbemeetingwithmy comnllanitybrothcrs andyou will hearfromus.

Cordially,

A r t ~Ruiz GonzAlez
         r ~
Community of Lachixonace

Ing.Bustamante, we requestthe interventionof our Constitutional Govemorsotht hedoes not
 allow foreigners as Mr.Kellemberg andMr.JuanMartinez (who Ithink is also a foreigner) to try to
cometo our Stateto mockus andtreadon us for beingindigenous and ifNAFINcontinues doing
 nothing, thenwe shouldalso watch out for them.

        TRANSLATIONFROMTHESPANISH ORIGINAL
i       From: Joyce Garcia Sosa u x q x e x " L d zia@llotm~il.com
                                                        *



        To:                                     >



         CC:                   @Wnrldhank.Qrg.,

         Subject: Re: requestposition onminutes

        Date:     12/02/2003 04:48 PM

        Dear Juan,

        Iwouldbelyingif1saidIampleasedaboutyouwriting,sinceyouandKellemberhavenoshame,
         after the whole "number" youputtogetherintryingto frame us as assholes, the only thingyouleft
         behindwas abitter taste inthemouth.

         FromKellember we canunderstanditbecause after allhe i s aforeigner of which we cannotthiilk
         he has a modicumof social sensitivity, or is interestedinindigenousaffairs or thepoverty of our
         peoples.

         Butfromyou, you shouldbeashamedtobearthetitle of"Indigenous People's Specialist", since
         one opportunity of meetingyou was enoughfor us to realize the hypocrisy you exhibit incaring
         only about your "work" and suckingupto the peopleinthe "Bank" andnotcaringahoot aboutthe
         peopleyou surely originatedfrom INIXGmQUSPEOPLE.

         Itembarrasses usthat you say you arefromOaxaca, since you havenosensitivity to the suffering of

     .$  your countrymen andindigenousracebrothers. This is the last time Iwrite to you, butIdo not v m t
         to do itbefore first tellingyou what my brothersandmethinkof you. Itis obviousthat we will not
         accept any evaluation ifyoudo not first meetyour commitments.You still believe (andthat makes
         usfurious) that youcanplay usfor IDIOTSinthinkingandcontinuingwithyour discourseonTI-IE
         EVALUATION. We want Tzinnia Carranzato be present. We want action to betakenfor once and
         for all against PacoChapela, who i s beingprotectedtill the end. We cannot unravelall the dirtthat
         surroundshis still beingkept inthe position of NationalCoordinator. We do notneedanevaluation
         for what is evident. Chapelais rejectediiithe regions. UNDERSTANDITSO.Who the hellis he
         goingto coordinate ifwe andour communities want nothingto do with him?Ask himifhehas
         doneany field work intheregions.Hewill notdo itbecausehe is not acceptedandwe hwe saidit.
         h y visit i s under:&n    at his ownrisk, because we know our peopleandhe is oversteppingthe line.

         However, the projectis we11acceptedinthe regions. Rightnow Iamonmy way to Oaxaca City,
         makingthe last arrangementsf5r meventcfn;y community which is relatedto theprotectionof
         turtles andinwhich for the fxst time the community is involved andthat is theresillt of the work of
         the IUWOVEDCOOmmATOIR, who hadthe sensibility of pronoting amongthe peopleinmy
         community an unprecedentedproject, but anextremely important one. Iwill tell youjust one fact:
         the target was the protection of 60,000 eggs and so far we have200,000 underprotection, [some] of
         which we will release anthis December5, in a ceremonywith schoolchildrenznd specialguests
         and, of course, theparticipation of theCOMMUNITY. That is theCOINBIOwe want anddefend,
         working with the people, not frombehinda desk, notthrough shoddy intereststhat smell of rot, of
         misery. How can we fail to defenda pKoject of suchnature?HQW we !et unscrupledindividuals
                                                                          can


                                                           61

Mexico - COINBIO

                                                              I "


useus for their particular andshoddy benefit, inwhich your participationbecomes evident by
taking the attitudesexhibitedso far andprotectingone of the main causes of this problem
[Francisco] CWELA.

My dear Juan, abstainfromwriting such stupidnotes, becauseyoc offend us. Youhaverealized we
are not DIOTICITfDIGENOUSPEOPLE.Pleasedo not try to pullour leg, anddo notbe aparty to
the idiotic games ofMr.KELLEh.IBERG, who offendeduswith his illconsiderednote to PVLr.
Escobedo. Who does hethinkhe i s to tell us what will bedone?Ontop of ithe dares say in~s
coinmuniqui: "...we would liketo h o w yoilr opinioninthisregardandalsothe GUIDELINESthat
NAFINwill initiateto maketheseclarifications." Whatcanbeconstrued?ThatNAFINwilltellus
what transpired at h emeetingandwe would say, yes, yes, yes I", you order...%%at
                                                                         whatever
stupidity and lack of commonsense. We donot haveeducationaldegrees, but we are not suchfools.

As for the evaluators,letmetell youthey are wasting their limebecausewe havegreatclxity inour
position, there is noevaluationmore objective than that of the InspectionPanelandthe
International Court of Justice, it i s not athreat becauseowcase is alreadyinthehandsofEduardo
Abbot andof courseMr.RamosandGEFare awareof what is goingon andwe are jn duect and
constantcomunicationwith them.

We will seeyou inthePANEL, you'll keephearingfromus.

Joyce Garcia.




From:             JuanMartinez 4 " - o r l b               w
To:               Joyce Garcia Sosa qmasl70inhia@_hrrtmall.c n >       * M




Subject:     .    Re: reqcest position on minutes

Date:             Tue, 2 Dec 2003 11:40:02 -0500

 MI-.JoyceGarcia.,

Thankyouoryour note, Iampleasedto report that we havebeennotifiedof thebeginning ofthe
independentevaluationof COINBIO.The two consultantshiredwill betraveling to Oaxacavery
soon. They will contactyou and other members of the committeeto hearyour opinions. They also
haveplans to visit some Communities.We are very confident that the evzhiation will indicate the
guidelines andrecommendationsthat might be considmd to achievea better implementationof the
CON310project.

Regards,

                                                       Mniingsiirent Respoiise



9uanMartinez
Sr. Social Scientist / IndigenousPeople'sSpecialist
RegionalUnitfor Technical Assistance (RUTA)
Sail Jose, Costa. Rica

Tel: 506-255401I
Fax: 506-222-6556




                                              63

From: Joyce GslrciaSosa                     t   *  ' .hotmail.coni

To:




cc:




Date:             11/17/2003 07:46 PM

Subject: Re: C.V. and scores

Dear Accountant Santos,

A s far as we areconcerned, you can choose whoever you want, as youhavealways dome. Ask Mr.
Chapelafor his opinion, or fromtheir deskshaveMr.Gross, or Kelembergor I&. or   Martinez
whoeverdecide. But we nolonger want to be aparty to your disguiseddecisions, with the only
puiposeof usingusto makeus look like fools. Surely the evaluation will show we are all fools and
idiots, that the solution i s to disbandthe commitEeeandformanew CQINE!IO,that can behandled
without problemsby ail the dark intereststhat move aroundit and becausewe do not play your
games, becausethey are nogood andthey are a discredit to us, are saidto be agitators, for wanting
to defendjustice andtransparency.

What aniockery.




                                                   64

                             -                                             Motiagement Respaise




                                                                       ATTACHEDE-

From:          Adan Santos




cc:            Femanndo Melo     v,
               Mariadel RocioCustodio Arriaga Unrcllstodin@nafin,gnb.mx>
               Francisco Chapela
               Paco Chapela

Subject: C.V. andscores

Date: Mon, 17Nov 2003 12:40:30

Membersofthe state Committee:

Hello everybody. Last week, Isent the C.V. of international consultantswho will accompanyCarlos
Toledo, 'for you to score according to the criteria that Ialso sent you. Do you have your scores
ready?Iwill consolidatethe scoringand senditto PacoandRocio.

RegardsandIhopeyou will beable to sendthemtoday.

P.S.Ifanybodymissedgetting thefiles, Iwill behappyto sendthemagain.

AdiinSantos




                                                65


             BANKMANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
        REQUESTFORINSPECTIONFANEEREVIEWOFTHE
MEXICO: ~      ~Aha! COMRm3TYBIODIVERSITYC
                        ~         ~        ~ ~ ~E S E ~~ ~ A
                                                           ~ ~
                   PRQJECT (COINBIO)
            (GEFTRUST FUNDGRANTNO. TF24372)


Letterhead of the WorldBank
                                                                                     June 4: 2003

h&.
ArturoEscobedode laPefia
International Assistant Director
Nacional Financiera
Insurgentcs Sur 1971
Col. GuadalupeInn
01020Mexico, DF
Fax: 525553257528


Re: I'vEXICO -Biodiversity Conservation Project inIndigenous Communities
        f?"j9-



Dear Mr.Escobedo,

Duringmyrecent visit to Mexico, we hadthe opportunity to holdameetingto discussthe
implementation progressof the project of reference. As you h o w , it took a considerable time for
this project to becomefully operational. The project became effective as of June 2001, and as of
May 27,2003, it disbursedUSD$1.15 million, approximately 15.5% of the total resourcesof the
project. Mostof these resourceswere usedto cover operating expenses.

Partof the problemfor the slow start of the project was due to the fact that its execution began
during thetransition period of the new administration while major institutionalreforms were
introduced to SEh"AT,         which led to the creation of CQNAFQR as the responsible body for
implementation of sectorial policies. CONMOIP was later assignedrespomibility for the
teclinical supervision for the Project. Another important factor has beenthe limitations faced by
statecoordinators that preventedthemfrom addressingthe needs of a large number of
beneficiary conlmunities ina comprehensivemanner andincoordinationwith other programs of
the CQNAFOR. Although NAFINhas provided excellent support inadministrative andfinancial
matters, becauseof the new institutional context, the recruitment of aNationalCoordinator was
delayed, a situation that aggravatedthe lack of clarity and guidance for state coordinators to
respondto the priorities, strategies and objectives of the Project.

The National Coordinator of COIN3310assumedoffice in January of this year, andhe has been
taking measures to raise the standardof performance of the project. Two StateCommittees have
completed the first cycle of selection of sub-projects andtheir implementation will begin soon.
These are signs of progress, bvt considering the delays indisbursements{approximately 21
months behind schedule), we needto redouble our efforts to speed upthe operation of the
project.

We haveanalyzed the currmt structure of the project and believe that it could be enhancedwith
seize restructuring responding to the new insliiutional context. The objective of this restructuring
would be to ensure better institutional support and coordination from the Regional Managements
of the CONAFOR for the execution of the Project, leveraging the existing operating structures

hfaico - COINBIO


andcapabilities, mainly of the ProjectP R O C Y W . Under the new circumstances,we couldnot
only considerably reducethe operatingcostsbut also develop synergy betweenCOINBIO and
PKOCYhQG.Inaddition, this would helpto relieve the difficulties facedby the State
Coordinarorsingetting directly to the communities, with a consistentmessagefor the three
states. The approachwe are proposing would be for the mainfunctions of the COINBIO State
Coordinatorsto be assumedby the PRQCYMAFState Coordinators. COINBXO will continue
beingrcpresentedineach state by a "liaison", whose role would be to make sure that the goals
and methodsof the programare beingproperly executed.The decision-making mechanisms in
COIWBIO, through the StateConunittees, would remainintact.

The benefitsemerging from this changewould be: a) Better coordination andavoiding duplicity
betweenCOIN310 andPRQCYMAF, as well as with other programsof the CONAFOR, such as
PRODEFQR; b) Maximizingthe synergybetweenbothprogram; c) Significant improvement in
the scope of COWBXQ inthe participating states, through the use of the PRBCWAFpromoters
to help disseminateinfomation on llie project; d) Reduction of operating costs. The proposed
changes will not require anamendmentof the grantagreementbetweenthe WorldBankandthe
Governmentof Mexico.

We hereby requestprompt considerationto these measuresto helpmakethe project operation
more dynamic. Ifthe project does not speed up its operation inthe short term, the riskexists that
the Bankmanagementandthe donor may exert pressurefor the cancellation of a part or the
entire donation. We are available to discuss specific measures to assist the project.

Respectfully,


DanielR. Gross
`TaskManager
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
DevelopmentUnit
Latin America and the CaribbeanRegion


c: Dr. Gerard0 Segura, CoordinatorPROCmlM, Fax: 525554843569
 Eng. FranciscoChapela, CoordinatorCQINBIO,Fax: 525554843569




                                   - .


                                               70

                              . s

          BANKMANAGEMENTWSPCBNSETO
     REQUESTFORINSPECTIONPANEEREVIEW OFTHE




x


     The World Bank                                  1818 HStreet N.W.          (202) 477-1254
     iNTERNATlONA1-BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTlOMAND        Washington,D.C. 20433      CableAcfdress:
     DEVELOPMENT                                                                INTBAFWAD
     INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION             U.S.A.                     CableAddress:
                                                                                INDEVAS

                                                                                      July 29,2003

    Lic. Arturo Escobedode la Pefia
     Intemational Assistant Director
    NacionalFinanciera
     Insurgentes Sur 1971
     Col Guadalupe Inn
    01020Mexico
    Fax: 52555325752s




     Dear Lic. Escobedo,

             Thank you for your e-mail dated June 25, 2003, regarding the ahove-referencedproject.
     We have reviewed the Agreements attached hereto and we are pleased to inform you that we
i




     have no objection, according to the followingchart:

                   ContractNumber Consultant                           WB Comment
     EdF/CO/22/2003                   TZINNIPLCARRANZA                 Noobiection
     NF/CO/26/2003                    D W LDAVALOSM O M Noobiection


                                                  Sincerely yours,


                                                  DanielR. Gross
                                                  Task Manager
                                            Environmentally andSocialiy
                                           SustainableDevelopment Unit
                                     L a t hAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion

     cc:     Francisco Chapela, COII\wIO Coordinator, Fax: 525554843569
             MoisCsVillegas, "?.IN, Fax: 525553257097
             Mariadel Rocio Custodio, NAFIN,Fax: 525553257097

     cc:     MmesMessrs.: Shepardson, Davis, Cackler, Abedin, Semaaa, Viteri (LCSES),
             Melleiiberg, Carrasco(LCCiC); Molnar, Sabella (LEGLA), Formoso, Ualchuia
             (LOALE); IRIS 2


               BANKMANAGEMENTRESBONSETO
         WQL?STFORINSPECTIONPANELREVIEW OFTHE
MEXICO: INDIGENOUSAND CO?&MUIVTYBIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION


Onpaper with the Letterheadof
MarvAn, Muiiozy Gonzi'lezLarrazolo
Attorneys aiLaw

Via: e-mail.
                                                                            Mexico City, 25 February2004
Mr.FraiiciscoViCeri
The WorldBank
Environmentally andSocially SustainableDevelopmentUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CuibkanRegion
1818HStreet, NW,Washington, DC20433 -USA


Dear Francisco:

Inaccorrlmce withyour kindrequest, we herebyincludethelegalconsideratioiisinrelationtothe
early termination of the contracts for the provision of professional services entered into Daniel
DAvalosMorhandTziiirliaCarranzaMpezby NacionalFinanciera,S.N.C. as follows:



        *       OnJanuary 2,2003, NacionalFinanciera, S.N.C. (NmSA) signedtwo contracts
                for the provision of professional services with DanielDAvalosMor& and Tainnia
                CarranzaUpez(The Professionals).

                The Professionals took office as Project Coordinators for the States of Guerrero
                and Oaxaca, respectively, under the supervision of the office of the International
                Sub-Director [of NAFJ" and the National Coordinator of the Biodiversity
                ConsemationandIndigenous Comunities Project.

                Their functions included, inter alia, managing the project's actions at the state
                level, promoting the project in the state, reviewing subprojects or financing,
                monitoring andevaluating the subprojects, preparing the project reports at the state
                level, andpreparingthe wual operatingplanfor the State, etc.

                Inorder to fulfilltheir tasks the Professionals were subject to a timetable [work
                hours] and had an office inthe states where they carried out their work They were
                     obliged to Ccj-ziduct th~k~ i o f ~ s s i o d
                                                               S~XV~CCS
                                                                      G k ~ c t b\.iiihut jkMifig t k
                rights andobligations derived fromthecontract.
        *       NMNSA undertook to pzy the Professionals professions! fees on a fortnightly
                basisfor the amount of MXP $16,W,ooO andp/BxP$16,720.00 respectively.

                The validity of the contractswere fromJanuary 1to Decem-ber31,2003.
        *       On 3uly 31, 2003 N m S A processed the early termhation of the contracts as of
                August 15,2003. This was notified through N~tary     Public GabrielBen$"        D h z
                Soto,an official of NotarialOf5ceNo. 131of FederalDistrict of Mexico.

                 Itis notedthat inbothcases thenotificationby theNotary were receivedby people
                 other than tlie [recipients].

                 InconnectionwithTzimiia CarranzaL6pez, thedomicile declaredinthecontractis
                 locatedinPresaTezoyo 168-3, Coloniakrigaci6ninMexico City, FederalDistrict,
                 but the Notary officiallji appearedat the buildingnumber 168 of the PresaTezoyo
                 street, Colonia IrrigaciClnof Mexico City, that is, he did not officially appear in
                 [Apartment] 3, a situation which couldbe objectedto incivil proceedings.

                 With regard to Daniel D6valos MorAn, tlie Notary officially appeared at the
                 domicile indicated'inthe contract.




         a)      Legalnatureof the relationship.

         InMexico, therelationsbetweenemployersandemployeesaregovernedby article 123of
         the Constitution. Saidarticle refers to two types of labor relations: that arisingbetween[an]
         employer andeniployeeingeneralandthe labor relations of employeesat the serviceof the
         State.

         Labor relations in general are regulated by the Federal Labor Law (Ley Federal del
         Trabujo)while the labor relations of employees inserviceto the State are governedby the
         Federal Law of Workers in Service to the State (Ley Federal de 10s Trabnjadores a1
         Sewiciodel Esfdo). These laws have different principles.

         N m S A is an agency of the FederalPublic Administration, therefore the labor relations
withits employees areregulatedby the FederalLaw ofWorkers inServiceto the State.

         Thejurisdictional ageiicy for the resolution of disputes betweenemployees and the State is.
tlie FederalCOWof Reconciliation and Arbitration (Tribuna2 Federal de ConciZiacihy Arbitraje).
The resolutionsissuedby said cowt can be challengedthrough s m a r y proceedingslo safeguard
constitutional rights (de"&        de UITI~VQ), which i s ruled upon by the Federal Courts called
Collegiate Tribunals(Triburzales Cdsgindos).These have the function of overseeingthe legality of
the resolutions issued by the Labor Coua and make swe that they are not in violation of the
guaranteesgrantedby the Constitution.

         The Collegiate Tribunals are part of the Judiciary Branch of the Federation. The Judiciary
has powers to construe legislation and issue criteria on how the law should be interpreted. These
criteria canbe mandatoryfor the Courts when as aresult of their reiteration or the nxinner in which
they arecreated resultingeneratingso-calledjurisprudence.

         Sections 3 arid 8 of the Federal Law of Workers in Service to the State provide the
following:

         Section 3. A worker is any person who provides physical, intellectual or both kinds of
         services, by virtue of an ~              ~issued or as a result of~ being included fan the ~
                                                                ~                           ~             t
         roster sf temporary workers.

                                       ' a

        Section 8. Excluded from the n l e s of this law are workers [political appointees] to which
        section 5 refers; the menibersof the National Army and Navy with the exception of civiliai?
        personnel of the National Defense andNavy Secretariats; the inilitarizedstaff or that which
        i s legally militarized; the members of the Mexican Forejgn Service; the guards of
        penitentiruy facilities, prisons or jails and those who provl.de their services under a civil
        contractor who receive fees.

        By law, the people who render their services under a civil cokract or receive fees are not
employees; consequently,the law of referencei s not applicableto theProfessionals.

        This is so despite the fact that there was a persoiial and subordinated service subject to
work schedule andobligationscomparableto a labor cofitract.

        In the case of reference, Civil legislation applies and in this regard the parties commit
[themselves] to what i s expressly agreed, considering that in clause eleven of the contracts the
possibility of an early tellmination was contemplatedwith no liability, with the sole requirement of
providing written notice fifteen days in advance. With the notification made by the Notary Public,
such requirement was complied with,       SO  that N m S A has no civil liability, provided that it
coveredany pending obligations.

        Damages do not apply because inthe early termination [clause] it was agreedthat should
that rightbe exercisedthere would benoliability.

        b)        Latent dispute.

        Independentlyfromthe legalframework describedaboveandthe form of the contracting by
means of a contract to provide professional services (civil contract), the Labor Courts cannot
prejudge that the nature of the relation was a civil one, so that the Professionals do have the
possibility of bringinga lawsuit against NAP;INSAdemandingthat they begrantedapositionor the
issuance of an appointment, arguing that they provided a personal and subordinated service 10
E.JAFINSA.

        The fact that in the lawsuit the Professionals establish that they provided personal and
subordinated service to N m S A , taking into consideration the refened sections, a resolution
favorabk to NAFINSAshouldbe issued, pointing out that the FederalLaw of Workers in Service
to the State is not applicableto them Qf course, witlrin the proceduresit is necessary to respondto
the lawsuit explaining that the relationship stems fiom civil contracts, [and] offering the respective
evidence.

        The Collegiate Tribunals have accepted our interpretation as evidencedby the following
jurisprudence:

        FOR PUBLIC SERVANTS SLBJECT TO THE                                        OF FEES.
                                                                   ~~~~

        ACTION BROUGHT ]BY THEM LE
                  1"IJENT~~S~~~~~        I S  ~~~~~~~.        The actions brought against a State
        agency designedto achieve the granting of a permanent post are unfounded due to the fact
        that inthe labor trial it was demonstratedthat the claimant was hiredunder the fee regime,
        since by express indication of section 8 of the Federal Law of Workers in Service to the
        State, they are excluded from the protection that the federal legislation provides to State



                                                   79

Mexico - COlNBIO


        servants inbureaucraticjobs.



        Frecedents
        Surxnary proceedings 5926/2002. Juan Pablo CaEo Lam. 4 July 2002. Unanimous votes.
        Reportingjudge: Genaro Rivera. Clerk Lourdes PatricisMufioz Illescas.

        Summary proceedings 11106/2002. Government Secretariat. 12 November 2002.
        Unani.mousvotes. Reportingjudge: GenaroRivera. Clerk LourdesPatriciaMufioz Illescas.

        Sunmy proceedings 11326/2002. Maria Rojas Catelrin & others. 28 PTovember 2002.
        Unanimous votes. Reportingjudge: GenaroRivera. Clerk Claudia Gabriela Soto Calleja.

        Suimtry proceedings 436/2003. Carlos Mauro Martinez Arias. 13 February 2003.
        Unanimousvotes. Reportingjudge: GenaroRivera. Clerk EliaAdriana BazitnCastaiieda.

        Summary proceedings 576/2003. Maria Guaddupe Rueda Montiel & other. 20 February
        2003. Unaniinous votes. Reporting judge: Genm Rivera. Clerk Elia Adrima Bazh
        Gastaiieda.

        It is important to underline that frequently, when the authorities whose applicable legal
regime is the law for workers inthe service of the state face these types of cases, they will deny the
labor relation and allege the incompetence of the Labor Courts to rule on the case, without
expkaining that the services rendered result from a contnct for the provision of professional
services.

        With that sort of defense, once the claimants have establishedthat there were elements of
subordination and provision of services the Collegiate Tribunals have found merit inthe claimants'
actions; i.e. faced with a lawsuit of people who rendered their services under a contract for the
provision of professional services, the defendant can be affectedby a badly argued defenseor by a
wmnginterpretationoftheLaw andofthe specific case onthe partoftheCollegiateTribunals.

        However, section 113paragraphIIof the Law of Workers in Service to the Slate provides
that the actions to demand the rehiring or compensationthat is granted by law have a statute of
limitation of fou; months, consequently, the Professionalswould havefour months as from the date
of beingnotifiedoftheearly tem&ation of the contract for the provision ofprofessional services.




         9        Consideringthat the Professionals were l-iredtivoughthe cmtract for the provision
                  of professional services, the Law of Workers in Service to the State i s not
                  applicableto then cmsequently, the applicablelabor law was not violated.
         *        The manner in which NAFINSA carried out the early tenribtion of the contract
                  for the provision of professional services was appropriate, since with &le
                  involvementof the Notaryit was certainbeyonddoubtthat the cantract teiminztion
                  was incompliance with the t e m agreedby the parties. Likewise, PWFINSA had
                  fie powers to terminate the contracts early according to the conditions agreed by
                  the parties.


                                                 80

        ;i:    It is possible that the Lzbor Courts may admit a lawsuit from the Professionals
               since they cannot prejgdge the nature of the relztionship that existed. During the
               trial, the argument shouldbe [made] that the renderingof services s t e r i dfroma
               civil contract subjectto a fee regime to excludethe applicationofthe Labor Law.

               Additionally, Iwould like to comment that we checkedthe records of the Federal
Reconciliation and Arbitration Cod%and to date said Court has not received any lawsuit by the
Professionals.

               We hopethis will be to you satisfaction andremain availablefor any clarifications
or doubtsinthisrespect.

Sincerely,

EmilioI. Jukez
         GxAn




                                                S i


                          - 1

     BANK MANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
REQUESTFORIN§FECTI[ONPANELREVIEWOFTHE
 PGENOUSANH) COMMUPdITY~ I O ~ ~ CQNSE ~ T Y
                                  E ~
           PROJECT(COPNBIO)
    (GEFTRUSTFUNDGRANT NO.TP24372)


     The Wor!d Bank                                   1818H Street N.W.            (302)477-1234
     INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND         Washington, D.C. 20433        CableAddress:
     DEVELOPMENT                                                                    INTBAFRAD
     INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION              U.S.A.                       Cab!@Address:
                                                                                    INDEVAS

                                                                                       August 29,2003

     Lic. Arturo Escobedode laPefia
     InternationalAssistant Director
     NacionalFinanciera
     hsurgentes Sur 1971
     Col. Guadalupe Inn,
     01020 Mexico, DF
     Fax: 525553256628




     DemLic. Escobedo,


*            We have thoroughly reviewedthe foundations for the DirectProcurementof Professional
     Services for the State Coordination of the CQINBIQProject inthe State of Oaxaca, datedAugust
     27, 2003 (CIE-3029). We understand that this is a critical moment for the CQINBIO Project in
     the State of Qaxacaandthat leadershipis neededfor the Project to continue making progress.

             We are also aware of the problems that have existed in the Program in the State of
     Qaxaca and taking into account such problems we agreed to terminate the contract with Ms.
     Carranza. Furthermore, as you already know, some individuals related to the CoIl[NBIB Project
     inthe State of Qaxaca have addressed letters to the President of Mexico, Vicente Fox, and the
     President of the World Bank, James Wolfensoh, making reference to what they consider as a
     problem in the Project's decision-making. Inview of such serious complaints we agreedto c m y
     out an evaluation of the Project in all three States and that upon completion of the evaluation
     changes would be madeinthe current procedures.

             Therefore, it would be too euly tu hire &e s a w pe~i'sonio niandge the Programin tile
     State of Qaxaca before completing the evaluation and a new decision-making structure i s agreed
     for the Program. N m could then conduct the search for a new State Coordinator for the
     CQINBIO Pioject under the newly-aped t e r m of reference. Inour opinion, once such measures
     are adopted, we would have no objection to consider Ms. Carranza among other applicants for
     the position, provided that she meets the minimumrequirements established under the new t e m
     of reference. Evidently, such selection needs to be carried out under the procurement guidelines
     and procedures set out for this Project, including the preparation of a short list with a minimum
     of three applicants for the position.

         We suggestthat duringthe evaluation and selection period of the new State Coordiaator, the
         National Coordinator be askedto serve as an interimcoordinator for the Project illOaxaca.

Mexico COlNBlO
      -


                                       Sincerely yours,



                                       DanielR. Gross
                                       Task Manager
                                 Environmentally and Socially
                                SustainableDevelopment Unit
                           LatinAmerica and the Caribbean Region




cc:   Francisco Chapela, COINBIOCoordinator, Fax: 525554843569
      MoisCsVillegas, NAFIN,Fax: 525553257097
      Maria del Rocio Custodio, NAFZN,Fax: 525553257097


cc:   Mmesmessrs.: Mejia, Davis, Cackler, Abedin, Semaan, Viteri (LCSES);
                           Kellenberg, Carrasco (LCClC); Molnar, Sabella(LEGLA);
                           Forinoso,Balchun(LOML); IRIS 2




                                          86

                                       *.*
               BANKMANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
         REQUESTFORI N S ~ E C T ~ O ~ REVIEWOFTHE
                                 PANEL
MEXICQ: INDIGENOUSANDPRQJECT
                     CBmUNITY ~           ~  ~C ~ ~N §I E ~V ~ AE ~ ~~ ~ ~
                              (COIIWIO)
              (GEFTRUST FUNDGRANTNQ.TF24372)


CQINBIQ's operation in the state of Oaxaca began with the setup of the State Comittee on
Jtme 26, 2001. Its first task. was the evaluation of candidates for the position of State
Coordinator. OnJuly 31,2001, Gerard0 Segura Warnholtz, General Coordinator of PROCYhW
andJesGs Ruiz Pdrez, StateDirector of NAFINinOaxacajointly selectedM.C. Tzinnia Carranza
L6pezto fulfillthat Tole. She took office inSeptember of said year.


'i'he State Comlirtee and its Coordination Unit have been working since rheii hi- the
implementation of CCPINBIO inthe regions of SierraNorte, Yautepec-Itsmo and Costa Sur.

When the project startedin Oaxacatwo years ago, the State Committee, inparticular (we, from)
the community sector, did not have a clear idea of what it was about and what our role was going
to be. We started working, and first meetings were held to define the actions and to produce the
first documents on the project which we disseminated across the regional committees and the
communities. The problems with NAJ3Nbecause of its bureaucratic structure started since that
time. Inorder to get any thing, it involves very longprocedures, and it was necessary to negotiate
with everybody to reach agreementand at the endno progress was made. To date the project has
been unable to have a vehicle and a computer of its own; we are operating with borrowed
equipment obtained by the coordinator through the COPLA.DE, and another piece of equipment
lent by the National Forestry Cornmission (CONAFQR), which by the way they are already
trying to take away from us. We find it hard to believe that everything i s so complicated, when
the money is already inMexico; the truthi s that at that time we were not interested inconstantly
arguing and submitting official letters requesting the minimum essential support to operate the
Project.

Then the first call [for proposals] was announced, which was [valid] from March to May of
2002, for the three regions where CQ        IO i s executed (Costa Sur, Sierra Norte and Yautepec-
Itsmo); 127 project requests were received, with 75 communities submitting proposals, out of
which 48 were approved inJune.

The proceduresto release the resources were subsequently initiated, which took months because
NWINwas introducing changes in the &ant Agreement and each time they requested more
documents. They delayed up to 7 mouths to releasethe first payment to a community; for its part,
the World Bank also played a role in these delays, since in some cases it took them 3 months to
issue the No Objection to a cniiple oFTerms of Reference.

After much tension and effort, the money started flowing in February 2003 - 8 months after the
project had been approved. By July, 75% of the projects has been operated wid several.
intermediate reports hadbeenproduced. It was at that time that our Coordinator was dismissed.

We, the State Colnmittee as well as the Cooi-dinating Unit, were coiicemed about N-@W's
delays and bureaucratic procedures; we submitted official let er~many times, izquestiag to
                                                                        ,
simplify the procedures,We also noticedthat there werc things that could be corrected or had to
be changed. Inthis sense, when the National Coordinator took over, the first proposal submitted
to hiinwas to conduct a strategic p!anning exercise with the prticipatior: of'the thee States. The
proposalwas accepted and Ing. Chapela startedthe preparationprocedures, however, r,othing has
                                      h .

bem achieved to date. Then, the State Comnittee decided to carry out a comprehensive
evaluation that would serve as the basis fcr the next call [for proposals] of COINBIQ, which had
been under preparation since May, and which would help correct the mistakes and to strengthen
its capacity. On J ~ l y23, 2003, an invitation to participate in this exercise was sent to Aduro
Escobedo of NiWN, Gerard0 Segum, General Coordinator of P R O C Y W , and Eng. Chapela,
National Coordinator of COINBIQ; a copy of this invitzttion was also sent to Mr. Daniel Cross,
Project Manager of the World Bank, and to Timoteo Harris, NARNDirector responsible for
CONBIO. The reply we received to our initiative was the unjustified dismissal of our
Coordinator, a decision that was made in secret and unilaterally taken by NAFII?,
PR@CYhllAF/CONraFOR,the NationalCoordinator and the Project Managerof the World Bank.
With this, they violated section 3, paragraph 3,04 c of the legal agreement that provides that "to
contract or maintaiii the State Coordinator for the duration of the project, they should consult
with the State Coinmittee", which they didn't.


On July 29, 2003, M.C. Tzinnia Carranza was informed that the Project had beenrestructured
and that she no longer fulfilled the profile for that position, asked to sign an agreement of
contract terinination with the same date. She did not sign it. On the following day, an special
meeting of the State Conunittee was held where she informed us about what had happened, and
the entire Committee's reaction was the absolute disapproval of the incident and the procedures,
which was evidencedina letter addressed to Timoteo Harls, of NN;IN, datedJuly 30, signed by
all the members of the Comrittee. Likewise letters signed by the Committee's community
representativesand by the Municipal Chairmen of the district of San Carlos Yautepec addressed
to the President of the Republic and to the President of the World Bank on the samedate. AI1the
institutions that participate in the Committee seEt a separate letter to Lic. Harris officially
requesting information.

Inspite of the protests, onJuly 31, through public notary, NAF'IPJproceededto terminate the
Coordinator's contract validated by the World Bank`s No Objection.

OnAugust 5, the State Committeehad a aeeting with M u r o Escobedode laPeiia, representing
PJMIN,where it was agreed that there would be no restructuring that would exclude the
Committee and that the Spate Coordinator \n/ouldcontinue until a comprehensiveevaluation of
the project in Oaxacawas conducted, so that only upon its completion decisions would be made
onrelevant mattersinaccordance with minutes No. 33 of our Codttee.

Despite the agreements reached at that meeting, that there was going to be no reslructuiing, the
Mational Goordhator sent an informative letter to the institutions dated August 14, with the
fdb\ViiIg:

The letter mentions two missions of the World Bank for the supervision of the project
perform"; the f i s t one ram March 10 to 20, 2003, and the second on May 21. The State
 Committees were never informed about neither of then, nor were the State Coordinatm invited
to participate, as they usedto bo before. To date we have not seen the Aide Memoires from said
events. However, some of the issues agreedto are vety worrisome.

 [The letter] says that there is a conFLisioiiin the assignment of functions and responsibiiities, as
the State Committees have been led to be!ieve that they were the responsible bodies for the
 execution of the Project at the state level, while according to the Grant Agreement this
responsibility falls to NWIN. This emfusion is also supported by the Operatiom1Marwal.

This is a very serious matter became thz proposed restructuring includes removing the said
unctionsfrom the State Committees. What they call confusion i s also very clearly expressedin
the Prcject Appraisal Report, because it states that thz project implementation will be
decenrralized through the State Committees that are responsible for the decision making and
snpervision of the project in the State. Cr. Gerard0 Segura himself, who actively participatedin
the design of the Project and has beenproviding following up on COINBIB, statedin an officiz!
letter addressed to the State Committee members, dated August 1of 2002, "the important r o k
that the State Coinmittees play as responsible (bodies) for the execution of the Project at a state
level".

The document also indicates that CONBFOR considers the CON310 Coordinators as Sub-
Coordinators, for which reason their salaries should be reduced. It also refers to use the
promoters of P R O C W to disseminate the COIfrTBIO, and share physical resources with
PRQCyp./aAI;. Finally, it talks about recruiting new State Coordinators with new terms of
referenceand with salaries lower than the present ones.

We assume that Mr. Clhapela's letter as basis for the letter that Mr.Dan Gross sent to Alrturo
Escobedo on June 4, 2003, in which he i s instructing him to adopt as soon as possible the
necessary measures to restnxcturethe project, stating that an amendment of the Grant Agreement
would not be necessary. H i s recommendation consists of transferring the main functions
performedby the State Coordinators of the COlWBIO to the State Coordinators of PROCYIvIAF,
and COIMBIOwould berepresentedineachStateby a liaison.

Mr.Gross's recommendationis an absolute disrespecttowards our peoplesand the Committee
itself, as he i s requestingchanges to be implemented as soon as possible, without even informing
us, when it involves a radical change of the project, subordinating it to the PROcImAFproject;
for that purpose, it was necessary to remove the Coordinators of Guerrero and Oaxaca, arguing
without any grounds that they are responsible for the delays of the Project.

On August 19, Arturo Escobedo sent an official letter to the Coordinator (of State of Oaxaca,)
informing that the teimination of her contract was irreversible; however, a new contract was to
be enteredto becomeeffective as of August 16, and the necessarysteps would betaken to obtain
the Bank's NoObjection as soon as possible.

On September 9, the State Coordination of Baxaca received a copy of the document dated
August 29 addressedto Lic. &two Escobedo de la Pe5a, inwhich Nlr. Grossrefusesto issue the
No Objection for the rehiring of our Coordinator, arguing that the projects require leadership
which can oniy be atvaiiieci with Ing. Ciaapela. [The 1zue1;l slates &ar the project evaiuaiiijn was
underway and once it is completed, MSc. Tzimia Cmanza would be able to apply for the
position [of State Coordinator].

Our peoples' indignation was not long in coining. On October 10, we sent a letter to Ms. Isabel
Guerrero, the World Bank`s representative in Mexico, signed by nearly 30 community
authorities, asking for the renioval of the National Coordinator, requesting respect for the Grant
Agreement signed by NAFIN, and stating: "there will be no restructuringexcluding the State
Committees and the State Coordinator will continue in her office until a comprehensive
evaluation of the project is made, and based on that, jointly with the State Coininittee, the bess
decisionsfor the Project will be Fade.''



                                                91

Mexico - COlNBlO


On October 29 we received a letter signed by Mr. John Kellenberg on behalf of Mrs. Isabel
Guerrero, in which he says to us that clause 3.04, paragraph (c) of the Grant Agreemcnt was
effectively complied with, as recorded in minutes Nos. 33 and 34 of the State ComGttee of
Qaxaca.

We believe thni when they wrote h e answer they didnot have the chronology of dates andevents
that we have now presented, as it is obvious that those meetings were held when our
coordinator's contract had been already terminated, and the No Objection issued by the World
Bank to such end also dated before the dates of said meetings.

Ail these events leave no room to doubt that there has been a series of violations and wrongful
intentions to solve the problem.

I t i s very clear to us that the legal agreement was violated in its clause 3.04, paragraph (c).
Besides, the Project Evaluation Document and the Operating Manual are being over1ooke.d and
detracted. There was an intention to deceive the State Committee and to use it as a front for a
democratic and participatory project.

And to cap It all, these facts have also been a violation of the World Bamk's Operational
Directive concerning Indigenous Peoples, as we are not being taken into consideration for the
decision-making and our requests are ignored. The incidents include the following:
      -   When the National Coordinator Francisco Chapeia went to the Natural Resources
          Committee of Sierra Norte to threaten us to stop the protests, saying that otherwise the
      -   Project would face the risk of cancellation;
          when the National Coordinator wanted to invalidate our State Coilllnittee meeting by
          saying that it was not a formal meeting, and telling a series of lies to the National
       -  Administrztor so that our expenses were notcovered;
          when they wane to imposeconditions onus for the election of our representatives,saying
          that they must inevitably be authorities of community property, and that we, the
          "tradjtional" leaders (as mentioned in the indigenous people Operational Directive),
       -  cannot be representatives;and
          when the people at the top want to decide how long the representativesmay stay in the
          Conunittee, knowing that the forms of organization and that kind of decisions are the
          exclusive right of our peoples.

Withthese facts, they are also viohtingthe Convention 169onIndigenous andTribal Peoplesof
the International Labor Organization, in its section 5, paragraphs a, b, and c; section 6,
paragraphs a and b; section 7, paragraph 1and 3; section 8, paragraph2; section 21, paragraph3;
andsection33, paragraphs 1and2.

If we allowed this, we would be losing our self-respect aid lee ourselves be bought by a few
dollars.

Ifour demands are notaccepted, we will go to the InspectionPanelof theWorldBankandfile a
 coinplail;t to the InternationalCourt of Justice.

 We demandthe immediate sojution andacceptance of the following agreements:
                         3
 1.- hmediale removal of Ing.FranciscoChapelaas National Coordinator of COINBIO.
                                      * .



                                                   92

   2,- Regarding the agreements with NAF", that there shall be no restructuring without the
   lmowiedge of the State Committees, and thclt the Sttite CDordinator will remain in office until a
  comprehensive evaluation of the project includingthe financial aspect of resourcemznagementis
   completed, based on which, jointly with the State Committee, the best decisions for the Praject
   are made.

   3.- Observanceof the autonomy of the StateCommittees inthe project execution inthe States;

  4.- CONMOR should devote itself exclusively to fulfill the role of technical advisor, which in
   accordance to the legal ageenlent, consists of conducting proper monitoring and evaluation of
   the Project;

   5.- The community representatives will be able to have a direct link to the World Bank, in
   accordancewith the con-espondingbodies, such as the state cormnittee;

   6.- The State Committees have active participation in the restructuring, amendments,
   modificatiom or any change to be made to the Project, inaccordancewith the existingrules;

   7.- The [State] Committeesshould be kept informed about all events and actions inrelation with
   the Project;

   8.- The Project Manager of the World Bank should be strongly involved, should have an active
   participationand inconsultation with the Committees for decision-making purposes;

   9.- Seek a strong cross-institutional coordination, while maintaining the Project's autonomy;

   10.- Active participation by the State Committees inthe evaluation of the Project, and its results
-  mustbe disclosed to andendorsedby the State Committees; and

   11.- Observance by the institutions participating in the Project of the decisions made in the
   Committees of NaturalResources.




                                                    93


                                    r e

               BANKMANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
         REQUESTFORINSPECTIONPANEL REVIEWOFTHE
MEXICO: INDIGENOUSAND COMMUNITYB I ~ ~ ~ E ~C$ I ~T Y ~ § E ~ ~ A ~
                    PROJECT(COINBIO)
              (GEFTRUSTFUNDG ~ N NO.TF24372)
                                 T


TMWSLATIBN

The GeneralMeeting of the Indigenous and Commiinity Biodiversity ConservationProject's State
Committee for Oaxaca was held at the office of Nacioiial Financiera, S.N.C, domiciled at CaJz.
Heroica Escuela Navai Militar No. 517, Col. Refom, City of Oaxaca, on November 5, 2003, at
I125 [a.m.], with the attendance of morethan50% of the" h e r s ofthe COINBIOProject's State
Coiimittee for Oaxaca.

ATTENDEES:

On behalfof theState Govmment:

En$.MsaelQjedaZurita                          Representativeofthe StateInstitute ofEcology

                                              Representativeof the StateInstitute ofEcology

                                              Representativeofthe StateInstitute of Ecology

Onbehalf of theFederal Government:

Bid.DavidOrtegaDelVak                         S M W A T (Miistry ofEnvironment and
                                              NaturalResources) FederalDelegatefor Oaxaca

                                              Representativeof CONMOR (National Forest
                                              Commission)

Onbehalfof theNGOs:

                                             .RepresentativeofSERBO, A.C.

Onbehalf of theRegions:



                                              Representativeofthe SantaMm'a Lachixonace
                                              Conmiunity

                                          - COSTA-

                                              Representativeof the Rio Seco"Ejido"

                                              Representativeof the SantaMariaHuatulco
                                              Cmmunity


                                      ISIERRA NORTE-

                                              Representativeof the Wlhnde Jufirez
                                              Community

Mexico COINBIO
      -
                                            W "


                                  Representativeofthe Cagsllalpamde M6ndez
                                  Community

Onbehalfof COIN3IO:

L.C. Adfn SantorsDkz              StateAdministratorof COINBIBfor Oaxaca



As observer andpemnnent guest:

c.Manuelsariirez                  Transparencia, A.C.


As special guests:

JohnKellemberg                    WorldBank

JuanMartinez                      WoddBank

                                                                            Managemerit Respunse




1.      Legal standingof the coinnittee [sic]
2.      htroduction of the attendees to the State Coinnlittee
3.      htroduction of theWorld Bank`sguests
4,      Problem of CON310
5.      Conclusions andagreement
6.      Gensral business
7.      Readingand endorsementof the Minutes of Agreement
8.      Adjournment



1.      The statutory qiloiumto set up the meetingwas verifiedandthe meeting calledto order.

2.      Atiendees, members, and guests were introducedto the State Cormnittee.

3.      Dan Gross's non-attendanceletter was read (copy thereof included as an Annex in the
documentation handed out to the attendees). Next, the e-mail sent by Lic. Rocio Custodio to Lic.
Adin Santos was read, wherein Lic. Escobedo de la Peiia instructed Eng. Chapela to attend the
meetingof the StateCommitteeonbehalf ofNacional Financiera, S.N.C.

4.      Eng. Francisco Chapela's participation in the meeting was questioned by the
representatives of the comunities present at the meeting. A vote was taken to decide on Eng.
Chapela's participation inthe meeting, withthe followingresults:
          B     FederalGovernment: heshouldparticipate
          e     State Government: Abstention
          Q     NGOs:Abstention
          (B    SierraNorte's Representatives:he shouldnot participate
          B     Costa: heshouldnotparticipate

5.      Eng.Chapelaleftthemeeting.

6.      As point 4 of the agenda regards, the communities' sector h i d e d out a document titled
`Facts Sheet". After said document was discussed, an agreed upon version thereof was drafted and
annexed hereto. That sewed as the starting point fmthe discussionof COINBIO problems. Miguel
Rm'rez, who was representing Sierra Norte, requestedthat the Minwtes of the Meeting of Sierra
Norte's Regional Committee, datedAugust 26,2003, be annexedto this point; which statedthat the
Sierra Nom's Narudiiesources Coilunittee w p s t e d its representativesthat prior to signing any
documentation or agreement related to the COINBIO Project they should consult and request
authorization from said Committee. Eng. Arturo Garcia requestedthat in the future all Minutes of
the Natural Resources Regional Comilteas should be iiicorporated to and acknowledged by tkie
StateComiittee.

7.      The Bankexpressed its concern with the CODBE)IOproblems, which hadbeenevidencedin
the project's perfomnce. The Bank fuither stated that it was awareof the letters that hadbeensent
io the different parties. Likewise. they expressed satisfaction regarding the project's evaluatior,
process to be soon concludedbecause it would show a clearer view of those things that functioned
well as well as the project's weaknesses that need to be reinforced accordingly. The Bank clearly
explained its procedures for no d3jeetions and showed its rzadiness to pay more attentior, to :he


                                                 99

Mexico - CObNBIO


project, since it is an important project for the Bank; the Eank fiiiTher axpresscd that it would
nimitor the executicn of the project and that the appropriate proceduresand steps are respected,
with the active pariicipation of all stakeholders. The Bankvoiced its readiness to keep an openand
continuous dialogue with all stakeholders, especially with the communities, and urged them to
maintain the didogue aid asked them to request any information that they may need and that the
Bank be copied of any project-relatedissues, always respectingthe institutional roles involved. The
Bank emphasizedits interest in regaining the beneficiaries' trust. Likewise, the Bank encouraged
the nienbers of the State Committeeto inviteDanGross to a meeting with the hillCommittee and
tile Bank`s next Mission could be a good opportunity for that. W.Kellenberg agreedto express all
State Committee's concems to Dm Gross, N",              and COWAFORinorder to find a solution to
the Committee's demands, andwherever i s the Bank`s rcsponsibility to intervene, it would do so.

8.      The members of the communities were concemed because the main issue for which the
meeting had beenconvened has not been resolved yet and stated that the resolution of such issues
would require participation of the high-level officials inthe meeting. The State Institute of Ecology
proposedto prepare a letter to those parties that had beeninvited but did not attendthe meeting as
well as to reschedulethe high-level meeting. Itwas agreedthat the mostadequate strategy would be
to reschedulethe meetingaker havingthe evaluation's resultsready to discuss how to improve the
project.

9.      It was suggestedthat the requests nude by the communities i3 the Fact Sheet should be
analyxdoneby one as well as the actionsto betaken by the Bank.            ,


10.     Among the 11points included inthe Fact Sheet, the Bank had no problems in accepting
&em and intervening in accordance with its responsibilities. However, it expressed that as far as
points 1and 2 are concerned it is NAFIN's exclusive responsibility in its capacity as project's
executor. The committee said that in point 2, specifically concerningthe dismissal of MSc. Tzinnia
Carranza, there had been no elements known to this Committee and the Commjttee was not
consultedregarding such decision. NAI;INhad already committed to rehire her andit was the Bank
that denied the no objectim in this matter. As lofig as this situation continues there will b:: no
solution to the mainprobiem The committee said that it should be taken into accountthat fromthe
beginning it had a veiy clear position "We are not defending an individualbut the proceduie to be
followed". After that discussionthe Bank`s representativesagreedto find a solution to the problem
and enswe to do so as soon as possible. The main agreeineat of the meeting, covering the above-
referencedpoints 1and2, was reached.

11.      Oncethe main agreement was reached, S E M N A T proposedto amex anotheragreement
on unifying the information, since apparently each stakeholder has different pieces of infoimation
of what is going on with the project. Itinvitedall stakcholdersto nianage true andclear information
and that such information be submitted to the Natural Resources Regional Conurittees and,
consequently, to the communities. The members of the StateCorSirnitteeandthe State Coordinators
arethe ones ina position to provide informationon the project.

MainAgreement:

The World Bank agreesto talk to Arturo Escobedo so thaE NAFIN proinply continues the rehiring
processof M. eiz C. Tzinnia Carranzaand the Bankgrants the no objection through Dan Gross. The
rehiringwill last until rhe results of the evali;atiori are obtained, since M. ea C`. Tzinnia Carranza
mustparticipate in the evaluationprocess. Once the results of said evaliration were fully discussed
with the participtitioni of the State 'Committee and approved the Committee would suppoi%the

                                                                               Management Response



decision on i> Eng. Francisco Chapela and MSc, Tzinnia Carranza will continue in the
               whether
project or be removed; or that ii)the appropsiate sctious to be take2 against those responsible: and
iii)any necessary changesto be madeto improve the project's perforrnanceto ensure the
achievement of the objectives outlinedfor [heproject.

12.     Thesebeingnofurther businessto transact the meetingwas adjowied.

Signatures

e.SargicP  GarciaMendt~~~i                        G. Joyce GarciaSssa
Representativeof Costa                            Representativeof Costa
Communityof SmtaMariaHuatulco                     N oSeco "Ejido"

                                                                 m'wz ~~~~e~
Representativeof SieimNorte                       Representativeof SierraNorte
IxtlhdeJukez Community                            Capulalpamde JuiirezCommity

A~&uF.~QGom&ea
        Rt6z
Representativeof Yautepec
§anta Mm'a Lachixonace Community

Bid.DavidQr%egadelVaHe
SEhlARNATDelegatefor Oaxaca

Etag. C k dE~S C ~ P ~ O S ~
Representativeofthe
StateInstitute ofEcology

                                                  LC.Ad6n Santos
Representativeof SEXIBO, A.C.                     Administrator of CQINBIQfor Oaxaca




                                                101

c

                                     $ 1

               BANK MANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
        REQUESTFQRINSPECTIONPANELREVIEWOFTHE
MEXICO: WBBIGENQUS ANE) COlMMWTY BIQIDIVEWITY C O ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ A T I ~
                     PROJECT (COINBIO)
              (GEP TRUST FUNDG ~ N NO.TF24372)
                                    T




                           to NAFIN,dated~    ~ v B7,2 ~
                                                   e      b  ~ ~


TRANSLATION:


The World Bank           BancoMundial             InsurgcntesSur I1605, Piso 24, Tel.: 54-80-42-00
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND           Coi. San JosC Insurgentee,     Fax:54-80-42-22
DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPRKNTRSSOGiATlQM               03900 Mexico, D.F.

                                                                 Mexico, D.F., November 17,2003

Lic. Arturo Escobedo de la Peaa
Intemational Assistant Director,
FinancialAgent,
NacionalFinanciera, S.N.C.,
Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre 4, Piso 11,
ColGuadalupe Inn,
01020MexicoD.F.

                  Re.: Commentson the Minutes ofthe General Meeting No. 39
               of COINBIOState Committeefor Onwca, held.onNovember 5, 2003


Dear Lic. Escobedo,

        We would like to thank you for attending the information meeting with the World Bank
held on November 11 of the current year, in which we discussed the points included in the
Miniites of the General Meeting No. 39 siibmitted by Mr.Adh Santos, N A F I " s Consultant for
the Administration of the COIN310 Project in the State of Oaxaca. As you already know, we
receivedthe minutes of the meetingonNovember 10via MI+.Santos.

        We have the following clarifications inrelationto the contentsof the minutes:

         1. In our presentation at the conunittee's meeting we explained the role of the World
             Bank to the participants inthe implementationprocess of the projects, specifically
             concerning the CQINBIOProject, which includes fiduciary-related issues of projects
             financed by the GlobalEnvironmentFacility.

        2. Regarding paragraph 10 of the minutes, the Bank proposes the following wording:
             "The Bank understandsthe concerns expressedinthe Fact Sheet, but does not agree
             with the li:cral wording of all 11points as statzd at the end of said document. hi this
             context, reference inust be made to the legal agreement signed by thc World Bank,
            +kW"andthe UnitedMexican States onFebruary 1,2001, whereinthe roles of
             each organization invclved in the project were specified. Likewise, we believe that
             the external evaluation of the project, which will soon be carried out, will provide
             concrete recommendationsto improvethe implemeatation thereof."

        3. 1x1connection with the main agreement included on page 6 of the minutes, there was
             no commitment whatsoever regarding either the dismissal of CON3318 National
             Coordinator or the rehiring of the former State Coordinator of Oaxaca. We informed
             the members of the committee that it i s an issue of NAFIPJ's concern. However. we

                                                          t


           committed ourselves to discuss the relevant issues with NAFIN, which we did with
           you once we received %heabove-referenced minites on November 10 of the current
           year.

        We would liketo know your opinion in this respect as well as the steps that NAFINwill
take to make such clarific-t'ions.

        Please do not hesitate to contact us should you require further explanations or need to
ask any questions on this inat%er.

                                               Sincsrely yours,

                John Kellenberg                                 Juan Martinez
                 SectorLeader                       Social and IndigenousAffairs Specialist
      Agriculture andEnvironnient Sector             SustainableDevelopment Department
            MexicoandColombia                      LatinAmerica and the CaribbeanRegion



CC:



        Mariadel RocioCustodio Airiaga                                 IsabelGuerrero
        Francisco Chapela                                              John Redwood
        A d h Santos Diaz                                              Eduardo Abbott
                                                                        Shelton Davis
l  y   k  o   f  t  t   e     e of hxaczx                              Ferenc Molnar
        Misael Ojeda Zurita                                             Pilar Gonzalez
        Cirenio Escamirosa                                              Mariangeles Sabella
        Oscar Soriano Silva                                             Steve Lintner
        David OrtegaDel Valle                                   Augusta Molnar
        Arturo GarciaAguirre                                    DanielGross
        Leo Schibli                                                     Charles DiLeva
        M u r o RuizGonzhlez                                            JuanDavidQuintero
        Joyce Garcia Sosa
        Sergio Garcia Mendoza
        RomAnAquino Matias
        MiguelRm'rez Dom'nguez
        C.Manuel SuArez

GlobalEnvironmentFacility:
        LeonardGood
        Gonzalo Castro         .
        MarioRamos

bcc:    Guerrero (LCClC); Redwood,
   .    Davis, Gross, Quintero (LCSES);
        Molnar, Gonzales(LEGLA); Di
        Leva (LEGEN);Lintner (ESDQC)




                                              106

