                                                     RP625 V16
                   REPUBLIC OF RWANDA




      MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL RESOURCES
              RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT

RESETTLEMENT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR RSSP2.
                   SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS




                                                       July 2012
ACRONOMYS

APL :      Adaptable Program Loan
GDP:       Gross domestic product Gross domestic product
MINAGRI:   Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources
PSCU:      Project Supervision and Coordination Unit
PAPs:      Project Affected Persons
RAP:       Resettlement Action Plan
REMA:      Rwanda Environment Management Authority
RPF:       Resettlement Policy Framework
RSSP:      Rural Sector Support Project
rwf:       Rwandan Francs




1|Page
Contents
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .......................................................................................................................3
1. INTRODUCTION .............................................................................................................................4
2. METHODOLOGY ............................................................................................................................4
3. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND RESETTLEMENT IMPLICATIONS .........................................4
  3.1. Project context ..........................................................................................................................4
  3.2 Project components .......................................................................................................................5
4. RAP IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS .............................................................................................6
  4.1. Public consultations ..................................................................................................................7
  4.2. Census and social-economic survey followed by valuation of crops and other assets .......7
  4.3. Disclosure of the census and valuation of assets results to the PAPs ..................................7
  4.4. Compensation and other resettlement measures. .................................................................8
  4.5. Monitoring and supervision .....................................................................................................8
  4.6. Address complaints among the affected people. ....................................................................8
5. IMPACTS OF RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION ON THE AFFECTED PERSONS ...9
  5.1 Compensation of land and Crops .............................................................................................9
  5.2. Compensation on Houses .............................................................................................................9
6. CHALLENGES AND GRIEVENCES FACED DURING RAPs ...................................................12
7. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................................................................13




2|Page
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Government of Rwanda is pursuing a comprehensive poverty reduction Programme . In
order to achieve this program, the government of Rwanda through the Ministry of Agriculture
and Animal Resources instituted the Rural Sector Support Project which aims at revitalizing the
rural economy and improving the quality of life of the rural poor through increased transfer of
technical financial resources for the sustainable rural development. This project has to sustain
poverty reduction through capacity building to facilitate efficient application of resources to the
development and management of investments.

With the Support of World Bank the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources has
completed the Rural Sector Support Project phase II which was implemented from 2008 to 2012.
The Rural Sector Support Project Phase 2 (RSSPII) has identified nine marshlands for
construction and rehabilitation of irrigation scheme with a total of 3324 hectares in different
districts.

The construction of the irrigation system implies a need for land and hence land
acquisition that is expected to lead to physical and economic displacement of people and loss of
access to the land that provides for economic resources. Thus, to triggers World Bank
Operational Policy OP 4.12 on involuntary resettlement, Rwanda laws on expropriation and land
ownership, twelve Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) have been prepared and implemented in
nine Marshlands and three dam sites.

After the completion of the RSSP phase II, the Social Safeguards team evaluated the
implementation of RAPs and prepared the Resettlement completion report in order to look into
the extent to which the fundamental principles related to the involuntary resettlement have been
met, namely: (i) avoid as far as possible and/or minimize to relocate people exploring all
alternative ways in the project design, (ii) where it is not feasible to avoid resettlement, its
activities should be designed and implemented as sustainable development programs, providing
sufficient investment resources to enable the persons displaced by the project to share in the
benefits of the project, (iii) adequately consult displaced people and provide them with
opportunities to participate in planning and implementation of resettlement programs, and (iv)
assist displaced persons in their efforts to improve their livelihoods and standards of living or at
least to restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement levels or to levels prevailing prior to the
beginning of the project implementation, whichever is higher.

This report principally describes the activities of the proposed project and the associated impact
arising thereof. The section on land acquisition highlights the existing land uses on the targeted
areas, a summary of socio-economic data of the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) and the extent of
the loss. The report also describes the process used in land valuation including surveying of the
land in question, and a valuation of the existing structures, and crops (including trees) present in
the project sites.


3|Page
   1. INTRODUCTION

Rural Sector Support Project phase II, under the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources,
with the support of the World Bank managed to construct four dams and to rehabilitate nine
marshlands covering a total of 3324 hectares in different Districts. Rehabilitated marshlands
include Ntende-Rwagitima marshland (Gatsibo district), Nyarubogo marshland (Nyanza district),
Rugeramigozi marshland (Muhanga district), Kinyegenyege marshland (Nyanza District),
Muvumba, Perimeter 8 (Nyagatare, District), Muvumba V marshland (Nyagatare District), Gisaya
marshland (Ngoma District), Kibaya marshland (Ngoma District) and Kinyogo marshland (Kirehe
District). Dams were constructed at Ntende-Rwagitima, Rugeramigozi, Kiriba and Nyarubogo
marshlands.

Land acquisition involves loss of land used in farming activities and loss of shelters belonging to
the PAPs (Project Affected Persons). This therefore principally triggers World Bank Operational
Policy OP4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement and of the Rwanda expropriation law. To address
these issues, RAPs have been prepared in line with all the necessary requirements outlined in the
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) document and according to the Rwandan expropriation
law. The implementation of RAP (Resettlement Action Plans) was done by RSSP and Districts.

The numbers of affected people due to the project activities in all the marshlands so far are
3,088 in total. These people had activities either in the marshlands where canals were
constructed or in the areas to be flooded and some buildings (such as houses) were built in
buffer zones. Therefore, the project had to construct 36 houses in total in terms of
compensations. So far, the total amount of money that was paid in the resettlement process is
equivalent to 460,938,198 Rwf.

   2. METHODOLOGY

To prepare this document, the Social safeguards team used a combination of a series of action for
the collection primary and secondary data. Primary data was collected based on the interviews
with Project Affected Persons (PAPs) local leaders and direct observations on the ground. The
secondary data was drawn from different report produced by the project including twelve
Resettlement Action Plans developed, compensation reports, Census and social-economic survey
and valuation of crops and other assets report.

3. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND RESETTLEMENT IMPLICATIONS

3.1. Project context

Agriculture is the backbone of Rwanda’s economy, accounting for about 42 percent of GDP, 90
percent of employment, and 85 percent of foreign exchange earnings. Because the agricultural
sector is so important, its performance impacts powerfully on the performance of the economy
overall. Agriculture’s contribution to economic growth is amplified by the strong multiplier
effects that extend from primary commodity production into post-harvest value-adding


4|Page
activities. Agriculture also contributes significantly to national food self-sufficiency, as over 90
percent of all food consumed in the country is domestically produced.

The acute scarcity of land is by far the most critical constraint facing rural households in
Rwanda. The population of about 9 million people is distributed across an area of only 26,340
km², giving Rwanda the highest average population density in sub-Saharan Africa
(approximately 355 inhabitants per km²). The average amount of agricultural land available per
rural resident in Rwanda is about 0.3 ha, and the average amount of arable land (agricultural
land net of permanent pasture) is about 0.2 ha. These figures are lower than those for most other
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, and they are comparable to those for the most densely
populated countries in Asia, where a much larger share of agricultural land is irrigated, making it
far more productive. With the land frontier effectively exhausted, future agricultural growth in
Rwanda will have to come from productivity gains achieved through intensification. Mainly for
that reason, the Government has targeted as an urgent priority the development for irrigation of
60,000 ha of marshlands, along with the development and/or protection of surrounding
hillsides.

In 2004, the Government of Rwanda formulated a National Agricultural Policy (NAP), the goals of
which are to contribute to national economic growth, improve food security and the nutritional
status of the population, and increase rural incomes. The NAP was operationalized in 2005 with
the launching of the Strategic Plan for Agricultural Transformation (PSTA). Rwanda’s agricultural
growth strategy focuses on raising agricultural productivity and increasing production through a
series of interventions directed at the supply side: intensifying sustainable production systems,
strengthening research and extension, improving input distribution, building capacity among
farmers’ organizations, promoting commodity chain development, improving export
competitiveness, and strengthening the institutions that support agriculture.

3.2 Project components

The centerpiece of the Government’s agricultural development strategy is the Rural Sector
Support Project (RSSP), being implemented under the oversight of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Animal Resources (MINAGRI) and coordinated by an independent Project Supervision and
Coordination Unit (PSCU). Designed as a 15 year Adaptable Program Loan (APL) (now extended
to 17 years), to be implemented 4 nationally in three phases, RSSP aims at revitalizing the rural
economy and improving the quality of life of the rural poor through the transfer of technical and
financial resources for sustainable rural development. The three phases are structured as
follows:

• Phase 1: 2001-2008: The emphasis during the first phase has been on building the
institutional, technical, and human capacity needed to support the adoption of sustainable
intensification technologies in developed marshlands and surrounding hillsides.

• Phase 2: 2008-2013: During the second phase, the emphasis will be on broadening and
deepening the support provided to accelerate the pace of intensification and commercialization
of agricultural production.

• Phase 3: 2013-2018: During the third and final phase, the stimulus resulting from faster
growth in agricultural production will provide the basis for promoting diversification of
economic activities in rural areas as a way of increasing and stabilizing rural incomes.
5|Page
3.2. Project Activities and resettlement implications

This resettlement completion report is tailored specifically towards Phase 2 of the RSSP where
different activities were accompanied by resettlement implications

a. Marshlands and hillsides rehabilitation and development and resettlement
   implications

The Objective of this subcomponent is to develop infrastructure in irrigated marshlands and
promote rainwater harvesting and sustainable land management practices on rain-fed hillsides
in order to accelerate the pace of intensification of agriculture. Under this irrigation
infrastructure have been developed and rehabilitated on at least 3,500 hectares of marshlands,
and it will promote rainwater harvesting and sustainable land management practices on at least
10,500 hectares of hillsides.

b. Marshlands irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation and development.

Rehabilitation and development of gravity irrigation schemes in marshlands, and promotion of
affordable pump irrigation technologies in marshlands using favorable shallow aquifers. The
following activities fall into this sub-component:
 Construction of dams
 Construction of irrigation channels and related infrastructure
 Construction of storage/ drying facilities
 Rehabilitation of existing roads and bridges to provide access to rehabilitated areas
 Rehabilitation of from subsistence agriculture and grazing to commercial agricultural
    activities (mainly rice cultivation) (linked to component

Activities under these subcomponent resulted in resettlement implication including:
 temporary and permanent loss of access to public or leased lands (for agriculture, grazing or
   other access) due to dam and irrigation infrastructure;
 Loss of privately owned hillside land (for use as borrow pits)
 Loss of crops and structures on these lands
 Temporary/ permanent loss of employment of full-time laborers on affected lands.
 Need for economic rehabilitation assistance due to changing crops or a move to higher
   intensity farming techniques.
 Other examples of economic rehabilitation include compensation for marginal land takings,
   employment if available, comparable land replacement or micro finance initiatives.

4. RAP IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS

Under RSSP2 project several activities were done in order to prepare and implement the
resettlement action plan as well as the Resettlement Framework Policy developed for this
project. The preparation and implementation of different RAPs have been done in accordance to
the World Bank Resettlement policy as well as Rwanda policies and regulations in regard to
resettlement, land ownership and expropriation. Below are the main activities that were done by
the Project during the RAP implementation process:



6|Page
4.1.   Public consultations

Public consultation is very fundamental in RAP preparation and implementation. They were
conducted through different meetings with the PAPs and the purpose was to explain the planned
activities and to respond to some issues and concerns. Meetings were attended by the Project
staff, District and Sector officials, National Land Centre officials, REMA envoys and the PAPs.

Fig.1 Consultation meeting with PAPs




During these meetings, the discussions were mainly focused on works that were to be done in
the marshlands and the purpose of resettling process, compensation framework for their crops
and assets. The discussions also helped the PAPs to fully understand their rights during the
implementation of resettlement framework and benefits resulting from rehabilitation of
marshlands.

4.2. Census and social-economic survey followed by valuation of crops and other assets

 During the RAP preparation a team field surveyors supervised by the resettlement committee
carried out surveys on every household to record the number of PAPs, crops, houses and cattle
sheds that would be destroyed by the rehabilitation of the marshlands. After the census, the
resettlement committee would give value to the destroyed crops and properties. At the end of
the every survey, a report showing how many PAPs would be compensated and the
compensations entitled to each of them would be prepared.

4.3. Disclosure of the census and valuation of assets results to the PAPs

Once the results of census and valuation of Assets is completed, the next step was to conducted
consultation meetings with PAPs and other stakeholders in order to present findings and
address complains if any. Meetings were conducted to each site by project officials and
resettlement committee and attended by District, Sector and Cell officials, National Land Centre
officials, Rwanda Environment Management Authority representative and the PAPs. The


7|Page
resettlement committee would explain how the surveys were conducted and present the results
to the participants.

During these meetings, every Project Affected Person would be shown how he or she would be
compensated or resettled and if any PAPs would not be satisfied with the results, they would
provide a room for asking questions, then discussions would follow and finally solutions for the
raised complaints would be found.

4.4. Compensation and other resettlement measures.

During compensation, project officials, local leaders and the affected persons worked together in
order to agree on how best the compensations should be done and decided on which suitable
compensations to be done. The Project had to involve the affected persons to make sure that they
are satisfied with the compensations and their livelihood is improved.

PAPs were compensated according to the surveys and valuations of their crops and property.
And this was done according to the Rwandan Constitution (Article 29), the Expropriation Law of
Rwanda (No 18/2007 of 19/04/2007) and OP 4.12 of the World Bank. For the PAPs who had to
be resettled, the local Government helped in allocating land for the construction of their houses
in line with the Resettlement policy where people are encouraged to join grouped settlement
known as” Imidugudu” and the Project provided construction materials.

4.5. Monitoring and supervision

The Project and the District officials supervised all the activities that were done in the district.
Usually this monitoring and supervision started right from the public consultation meetings up
to the end of the works. It helped to ensure that the Action Plans that were developed in the
initial phase of the project were actually respected and in case any changes or modifications that
came as a result of the works that were done are identified, reconsideration would apply for the
satisfaction of the PAPs.

4.6. Address complaints among the affected people.


 During the public disclosure meetings, the PAPs would be shown how their crops and other
properties were valued and how they would be compensated. The PAPs who would not be
satisfied with their compensations, they would raise their complaints and their issues would be
taken care of by the Resettlement committee.




8|Page
5. IMPACTS OF RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION ON THE AFFECTED PERSONS

After the completion of RSSP2 project and the implementation of all RAPs developed under the
project, we can confirm that all compensation measures proposed by different RAPs w have been
implemented and presently, the PAPs are living a better life compared to the life they lived
before the project.
5.1 Compensation of land and Crops

All crops which were destroyed during the implementation of project activity were compensated
in cash according to the Rwandan law. Sometimes compensation in kind for seasonal loss is
done, (PAPs whose plots were used during the harvest season are give beans for the loss of the
season, and they were given beans depending on how much crops were destroyed.
A list of PAPs who lost their land was given to the cooperatives in the marshland to ensure that
they are considered during land redistribution in the marshland. In monitoring we have verified
and confirm that all PAPs who lose their land were given lands in marshlands after their
rehabilitation and now they are producing rice in these marshlands.
Fig 2. Production of Rice in rehabilitated marshland




However, in Muvumba 8 where some cattle farms were flooded by the dam, the Project affected
people were given cash to buy other firms for their cattle as most of them are living of animal
keeping.
5.2. Compensation on Houses

In regards to the compensation of houses the following alternatives were applied:
   a. Construction of new houses in the mudugudu (resettlement).

9|Page
This was done through community work but the project provided materials and technical
support.




Fig.3.A compensated house                   Fig 3.B. New house




    b. Rehabilitation of existing houses
Some PAPs already own other houses outside the sites areas and opted to receive cash to
renovate those houses instead of building new ones. The sector makes agreements with these
people and ensured that the renovation is done. Other people had unfinished houses in other
areas and they were given materials to renovate their houses.
Fig. 4. Rehabilitation of existing houses
Before rehabilitation                             after rehabilitation




10 | P a g e
    Cattle sheds were also compensated by cash after the valuation team of engineers has valued
    their assets

    In addition to the compensation received by PAPs for their Crops, Lands, cattle shelter and
    houses, some PAPs were employed during the construction of dams and the minimum pay was
    1,000 Rwf per day, hence boosting their daily incomes. Other PAPs were employed at the
    cooperatives to do different kinds of jobs in the marshlands like supervising the earned around
    700 Rwf per day, thus an addition to their daily incomes.

    In general, the Project has provided the PAPs a better livelihood that has led to the development
    of the society they are living in.
    The table below summarize of resettlement measures on different sites:
Sites              Crops                      Land                 Houses                            Total
                   No of   Amount (Frws)      No of   Amount       No of     Amount                  Compensation
                   PAPs                       PAPs                 PAPs                              (RWF)
Nyarubogo dam      94      31,153,685         -                    61        11,550,000, 100%        40,232,600
                           100%                                    cattle    500,000 (cattle shed)
                                                                   shed      (100%)
Kiliba dam         92      19,805,802         -       -            13        14,300,000              41,657,444
                           100%                                              100%
Ntende dam         132     34,607,637         -       -            375       69,291,660, 100%        100,463,245
                           100%                                    cattle    2,000,000
                                                                   sheds     (cattlesheds: 100%)
Rugeramigozi       7       7,017,020          -       -            0         0                       7,017,020
dam                        100%
Nyarubogo          281     4,975,060          -       -            0         0                       4,975,060
irrigation                 100%
channel
Ntende-            570     13,691,266         -       -            11        18,000,000              37,445,643
Rwagitima                  100%                                              100%
irrigation
channel
Kinyegenyege       125     1,776,516          -       -            0         0                       1,776,516
marshland                  100%
Gisaya             231     4,811,981, 100%    -       -            0         0                       4,811,981

Kibaya             358     5,665,270, 100%                         0         0                       6,401,903
Kinnyogo           860     35,681,708, 100%                                                          44,000,000
Muvumba V          152     2,307,225                                                                 12,932,767
                           100%
Muvumba VIII       17      7,984,073, 100%    17      30,716,062   0         0                       41,349,524
dam
Muvumba VIII       193     25,493,129,100%    -       -            55 25     62,498,566 (100%)       117,874,495
channels                                                           stables   13,595,176 (100%)
Total              3,088                                                                             460,938,198


    In total 460,938,198 rwandan franc were given as compensation to the project affected person in
    these project sites and this amount of money has contributed to the improvement of PAPs

    11 | P a g e
 livelihoods. They money received were used either in construction or rehabilitation of houses,
 buying cattle sheds and lands. The money gained from works as income restoration has been
 used to pay school fees as well as health insurance.

 6. CHALLENGES AND GRIEVENCES FACED DURING RAPs

  During the implementation of different RAPs some complains were raised and solved using the
  grievance mechanism provided under these RAPs. The table below summarize the key
  grievances we met in the implementation of RAPs and solutions used to address them.
No       Challenges/Grievences                       Solutions
1        Most of the PAPs were complaining We helped in Negotiating with the banks to let
         about not having enough money for them open up bank accounts even with their
         opening up bank accounts in order for minimum bank requirements.
         the compensations to be transferred too.
2        Some of the PAPs were complaining Trainings were arranged especially crop
         about not having enough knowledge on intensification to help them learn more about
         the cultivation of rice.                    cultivation and the production from rice.
3        Some PAPs also complained about the The project thoroughly explained to PAPs that all
         compensations completed, that they the compensations were done according to the
         weren’t satisfied with what they were Rwandan law and even showed some of them
         provided.                                   the laws, hence they were satisfied.
4        Few PAPs did not find their names on After disclosure, the project went back, verify all
         the compensations lists on their sectors. the lists and collect them and hence
                                                     compensated them.
5        Some people did not give out their bank The Project and Local authorities are looking for
         accounts.                                   their addresses to make it easier for the
                                                     payments to be done on time
6        Burial grounds that were not declared The owners of these lands have been consulted
         during evaluation.                          and agreed to be assisted to relocate them from
                                                     the project sites.
7        Family land conflicts after families failed Authorities at the Sector level have been
         to decide whose names would be written informed about these conflicts and are being
         in RAP.                                     resolved by the local courts.
8        Fully implementation of RAP depends on Mobilisation has been made at local levels;
         rehabilitation works of the marshlands (district, Coop and PAPs) so that relocation can
         where PAPs will be given land after be done soon after rehabilitation works.
         completion of works.
9        Delays in payment for some PAPs             Districts’ payment process was long so many
                                                     would be moved to sector Bank accounts to
                                                     ensure the process was faster.
10       Some PAPs were dissatisfied with the Explanations of the valuation process were done.
         value they got for their crops or assets.   Verification process was also done using the

 12 | P a g e
                                                 local leaders.
11       Some PAPs never wanted to grow rice, This was mainly in Gatsibo farmers and they
         and others needed money for their land. would be given other alternatives.

 7. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

 In general, the resettlement process that was done in all these marshlands went as planned and
 in accordance to the World Bank safeguard policies as well as Rwandan laws and policies in
 regard to expropriation, land ownership and compensation. At this point all the compensations
 have been done and the project managed to solve most of the problems or issues raised during
 RAPs implantation.

 Rehabilitation works of the marshlands are now finished and PAPs were given priority in plots
 redistribution in rehabilitated marshlands. RSSP together with the districts monitored the
 compensation process to ensure it went successful and all the compensations were 100% done
 in all sites.

 In total 460,938,198 rwandan franc were given as compensation to the project affected person in
 these project sites and this amount of money has contributed not only in restoration of previous
 livelihood conditions but also in the improvement of PAPs livelihoods.

 In conducting the resettlement process several measures to avoid/minimize interference of the
 rehabilitation/construction on the lives of various people and entities and their assets located in
 areas that were taken and/or with the potential to be taken were adopted. The options of
 compensating PAPs by means of (i) cash compensation, (ii) Construction material and land for
 land were adopted to cause minimum disruption in PAPs livelihood.

 With regard to the resettlement processes the principles of (i) disclosure and dissemination of
 information to the PAPs, (ii) establishment of channels for participation and involvement of
 PAPs, (iii) negotiations and agreements with the PAPs on the appropriate and acceptable
 measures for compensation for each case (iv) establishment and operation of systems and
 mechanisms for the presentation and redressing grievances have been adequately considered or
 at least in a way that fulfilled the expectations of most of the PAPs.

 The evaluation of the delivery of compensation and mitigation measures, or if the compensation
 was paid and received and that the PAPs were able to use them to make investments in the
 restoration of income and living standards, including changes in community attitudes in regard
 to the project. However, it should be noted that, for some reason, the whole process did generate
 expectations, which were not always properly managed. The management of expectations is also
 an important aspect in the management of resettlement processes and should be done in a
 professional manner.

 Apart from some issue of management of grievances and perceptions about changes in the lives
 of the affected people resettlement process is assessed as having been more positive and The
 lesson learned in the implementation of RAPs in RSSP2 should be used in future RAP
 implementation.
 13 | P a g e
