                                                      RP625
                                                      v7
                 REPUBLIC OF RWANDA


    MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL RESOURCES


           Rural Sector Support Project II (RSSPII)




RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN FOR CONSTRUCTION OF AN
     IRRIGATION SYSTEM IN GISAYA MARSHLAND


                    NGOMA DISTRICT




                     NOVEMBER 2010
                        SUMMARY OF CONTENTS
Section
Number
          EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1         DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
2         POTENTIAL IMPACTS AND AFFECTED POPULATION
3         FINDINGS OF THE CENSUS
4         DESCRIPTION OF COMPENSATION AND OTHER RESETTLEMENT
5         ELIGIBILITY
6         VALUATION OF AND COMPENSATION FOR LOSS
7         RESETTLEMENT MEASURES FOR EACH CATEGORY OF ELIGIBLE
     PAPs
8         CONSULTATION WITH PAPs ON ACCEPTABLE ALTERNATIVES
9         GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISM
10        DESCRIPTION OF ORGANISATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
11        IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
12        ESTIMATED COST FOR RESETTLEMENT
13        FRAMEWORK FOR MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING




                                   1
List of Tables and Figures


Table 1:    Resettlement impact
Table 2:    Description of households in Kinnyogo Marshland
Table 3:    Total compensation
Table 4:    Resettlement Impact on Land
Table 5:    Resettlement Impact on Crops
Table 6:    Categories of the PAPs
Table 7:    Meeting and Consultation Dates
Table 8:    Issues of PAPs and responses given
Table 9:    Roles and Responsibilities for each institution
Table 10:   Implementation schedule
Table 11:   Estimated cost for resettlement
Table 12:   Monitoring, evaluating and reporting


Figure 1:   Signatures of Approval by PAPs




                                              2
List of Annexes


Annex:     Map of Kinnyogo




                             3
4
ACRONYMS


HH:        Household
PAPs:      Project Affected Persons
RAP:       Resettlement Action Plan
RPF:       Resettlement Policy Framework
RSSP:      Rural Sector Support Project
rwf:       Rwandan Francs




                          5
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


The Rural Sector Support Project Phase 2 (RSSPII) with the support of the World
Bank has identified the Gisaya Marshland for construction of an irrigation scheme.
Located in Ngoma District in the Eastern Province,. The construction will facilitate
irrigation on 88 hectares.


The construction of the irrigation system implies a need for land and hence land
acquisition that is expected to lead to physical and economic displacement of people
and loss of access to the land that provides for economic resources. This therefore
principally triggers World Bank Operational Policy OP 4.12 on involuntary
resettlement and Rwanda laws on expropriation and land ownership. The land
identified for rehabilitation at Gisaya is all owned by the Government of Rwanda
although it is being used by different individuals for various land uses including
livestock grazing and subsistence agriculture. In accordance with the World Bank
Policy OP 4.12 a resettlement action/compensation plan must be developed to be
submitted to World Bank for approval.


This is therefore the duly prepared Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) by the project in
line with all the necessary requirements outlined in the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) document. The main elements of the RAP are, public consultation,
documentation of assets, a matrix of entitlement, consideration of alternatives,
compensation and resettlement, addressing grievances, monitoring and reporting.


This report principally describes the activities of the proposed project and the
associated impact arising thereof. The section on land acquisition highlights the
existing land uses on the targeted land, a summary of socio-economic data of the
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) and the extent of the loss. The report also describes
the process used in land valuation including surveying of the land in question, and a
valuation of the existing structures, and crops (including trees) present in the project
sites.




                                           6
The census done by a team from the PAPS, the District and RSSP indicates 230 PAPs
from 7 villages in the Ngoma District who will lose crops, including trees. Our survey
also indicates that there are no other assets in the project site. The main objective of
this Resettlement Action Plan is to ensure just compensation of the PAPs for the loss
of crops inherent in the project sites that will be destroyed or cleared in the process.


The persons to be compensated have been meaningfully consulted and have
participated in planning and implementing of the compensation programs. The project
activities will directly affect 8.4 hectares presently being used for farming activities.
The total cost of compensation is 20,464,648 rwf. Of which, 10,384,648 rwf is the
total monetary compensation to PAPs for crops and 10,080,000 rwf is the value of the
land which will be compensated through a land-for-land system. These payments will
be implemented together with the District and the PAPs.


Before and during the creation of this documentation, meetings were held on site to
inform the potential PAPs that their property might at some point be acquired to pave
way for the construction of an irrigation system. In the meetings, PAPs enquired
about forms of compensation and the chosen methods herein were agreed upon.


The compensation process will begin one month after the disclosure of the RAP1.
‘Ngoma District will implement the RAP according to the proposals found within this
document and with reference to the survey by the Resettlement and Compensation
Committee.


The PAPS, RSSP and the District will participate in the surveys, reviews and the
signing of all documentation related to the resettlement process. RSSP will provide
compensation for crops through the District and ensure provision of capacity building and
technical support relating to maintenance of structures and rice production. The District will
ensure that the eligible PAPs are compensated. RSSP together with the District will be
responsible for monitoring and reporting the implementation of the RAP.




1   The socio-economic information about the PAPs will not be disclosed publicly




                                                     7
The PAPs may bring any grievances to authorities.             First, they may ask for
justification of the decisions from the Resettlement and Compensation Committee,
but should the answer still be unsatisfactory, they may appeal to the local leadership
starting with the Cell, Sector and District leaders. If the grievances are not resolved in
this way, local courts should be used. If the case is not resolved it will proceed to the
Land Commission and then to the Courts of Law. RSSP will ensure that all PAPs
understand the complaints procedure and will ensure each party involved fulfils its
duties to the PAPs ensuring just compensation.




                                            8
1. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT


Gisaya Marshland is located in Ngoma District, Eastern Province, approximately 150
km from Kigali. Gisaya is public land of 88 hectares that is used for growing crops.
The construction two main canals measuring 14 km each, the secondary network and
weirs will enable farmers to cultivate rice twice a year (See Map, Annex).


The planned activities consist of:
   •   Design and planning phase which include selection of channels layout
   •   Preparation of RAP document and compensation
   •   Site installation
   •   Soil cutting according to size and channels layout
   •   Construction of hydraulic infrastructure all along channels (water intake,
       waterfalls.)
Rehabilitation activities are contracted to a local company, called ECOMAF, and are
to be completed within six months.


RSSP will work with the existing Cooperative, UCORIGI, to increase rice production
and improve marketing. Trainings will include maintenance of the irrigation systems
and appropriate water use, farming techniques, appropriate use of pesticides and
fertilizer, rice storage and marketing techniques.




                                            9
2. POTENTIAL IMPACTS AND AFFECTED POPULATION


The proposed construction of an irrigation scheme at Gisaya Marshland will have
necessary associated loss of crops.


2.1. Land Ownership
All land affected by the works is public land owned by the Government of Rwanda.


2.2. Land Use Type
The land to be acquired is being utilized primarily for crop production. However, the
canal will cross two sections of a community road requiring bridges to be constructed.


2.3. Loss of land and crops.
The civil works construction of irrigation canals will entail clearing of the vegetation
inherent in the project site which includes fruit trees, other trees, elephant grass and
crops that have been planted or cultivated by the PAPs.

All crops on land acquired by RSSP for rehabilitation of the marshland will be
compensated for and the owners will be given plots in the marshland after
rehabilitation.


2.4. Size of land and crops expected to be acquired

Table 1: Resettlement impact
 Item                                 Unity
 Affected District                    Ngoma
                                      Rurenge, Nyimbyi, Ruyenzi, Kabashumba,
 Affected Villages (Imidugudu)        Kabakanda, Murambi, Nyakarambo
 A) Resettlement
 PAPs compensated                     230

 Other assets replaced
                                      1 (canal will cross the feeder road which
 Community access                     will be bridged)
 B) Land
 Land for crops and livestock         8.4 ha




                                               10
There is one community feeder road which will be temporarily affected while the
canal is constructed. The proposed route for the canal will intersect the road twice,
requiring two bridges be built for the road to cross over the canal. The road will not
need to be closed during the construction process as diversion systems will be used,
so no compensation measures are necessary for this component




                                          11
3. FINDINGS OF THE CENSUS


Topographic works were done by the engineering team to confirm the project area.
Two meetings were held before the census began to explain to the PAPs the project
activities and the importance of the RAP preparation. It was in those meetings that the
Resettlement and Compensation Committee of 12 people was formed. This
Committee is composed of the representatives of Ngoma District, local leaders,
representatives of the PAPs and the RSSP team.


3.1. Documentation of holdings and assets
The Resettlement and Compensation Committee carried-out a detailed inventory of
the land to be acquired. Some PAPs were hesitant about providing socio-economic
data, but the data is as complete as possible. PAPs were assured that no socio-
economic data will be published.


The main findings of the census were that there will be 230 PAPs from seven villages
directly affected by the works. All but one of the affected households who completed
the Socio-Ecomonic survey, engage in agriculture and/or livestock farming. The
average household size is 6 people with 47% of the household’s members being
children and 49% being female. Average annual income per household is 918,091
rwf. On average, 80% of the households heads are involved in at least one community
based organization.




                                          12
Table 2: Description of households in Gisaya Marshland
Village




                                                                                                     organization
                                   % Children




                                                                                                     Community
                                                                                       expenditure
                                                                          Occupation




                                                                                                     Involved in
                 Household




                                                     % Female
                 Average




                                                                                       Average
                                                                                       annual




                                                                                                     Based
                                                                                       (rwf)
                 size
Rurenge         5            46                 48                   Farming            832,724      77%


Nyimbyi         5            44                 38                   Farming & 1        877,000      100%
                                                                     Businessman
Ruyenzi         6            48                 53                   Farming           1,122,906     86%

Kabashumba      6            49                 44                   Farming               -         85%

Kabakanda       6            45                 54                   Farming            365,000      100%

Murambi         5            35                 40                   Farming            818,503      75%

Nyakarambo      8            67                 47                   Farming               -         100%



3.2. Vulnerable groups or persons
The socio-economic survey indicates there are no vulnerable individuals in the project
area. However, given the limitations of the socio-economic data, it is noted that there
may be vulnerable PAPs not yet identified. If further individuals are identified during
the implementation of the RAP, special attention will be given to their needs and
reported in the Progress Report to this RAP.


3.3 Summary

Table 3: Total compensation
Activity                          Description                             PAPs                 Total value (rwf)
                                                                          Affected
Compensation for Crops            Destroyed due to works                  230                  10,384,648

Compensation for Land             Land for the canal                      230                  Land for land in
                                                                                               marshland (valued
                                                                                               as 10,080,000)
Total                                                                     230                  20,464,648



The total compensation for crops and land is 20,464,648 rwf. However, monetary
compensation will be 10,384,648 rwf since land will be compensated in kind. The




                                                                13
budget allocated to this compensation will come from the project counterpart funds
from the Government of Rwanda and distributed through the District of Ngoma.


3.4. Record keeping
The information in this RAP has been evaluated by the Sector leaders and PAPs and
confirmed as accurate. Both RSSP and the District will keep this information,
including the relevant records and copies.


3.5 Determination of cut-off date
The entitlement cut-off date refers to the time when the survey of persons and their
property in the identified project starts, and therefore people moving to the area after
this date would not be considered. The cut-off date was determined through a meeting
with the PAPs and the representatives of Ngoma District and RSSP before the census
survey was carried out. The census survey started 1st August 2010 and therefore 1st
August was agreed to be the cut-off date.




                                             14
4. DESCRIPTION OF COMPENSATION AND OTHER RESETTLEMENT
  ASSISTANCE


4.1. Membership of the COOPERATIVE
Many of the PAPs are already members of the UCORIGI,Cooperative. PAPs who are
not already members will be given the opportunity to join the cooperative. The
Cooperative will establish the joining fee and farmers will pay rates to the cooperative
each season dependent on the size of their plots. The cooperative will give assistance
by providing seeds and fertilizer, mainly through the CIP program. Individuals will
also benefit from the project support that will be given to the cooperative through
trainings.


4.2. Accessibility of jobs to PAPs during marshland rehabilitation
During the construction works, RSSP and the District of Ngoma will ensure that PAPs
get first priority during job allocation at the site, facilitating additional income for the
affected households.




                                             15
5. ELIGIBILITY


Eligibility for compensation is enshrined under the Rwandan Constitution (Article
29), the Expropriation Law of Rwanda (No 18/2007 of 19/04/2007) and is addressed
in OP 4.12 of the World Bank. These documents provide for compensation and
resettlement assistance to those affected, whether or not they have written customary
or formal tenure rights.




In the Rwandan Expropriation Law the person to be expropriated is clearly defined
under article 2 (7) to mean “any person or a legally accepted association operating in
the country who is to have his or her private property transferred due to public interest
as well as legally accepted local administrative entities local administrative entities”.




                                            16
6. VALUATION OF AND COMPENSATION FOR LOSSES


This section describes the methodologies that were used to value losses and determine
replacement costs as well as the roles of the different institutions and PAPs during the
determination of compensation process.


6.1. Magnitude of expected loss
The magnitude and impact of the expected loss can be termed as medium due to the
number of individuals affected through crop loss.


6.2. Compensation for Land


Table 4: Resettlement impact on land
 Item                   Location                Number    Amount of    Cost
                                                of PAPs   land (ha)    (Rwf)
                        Ngoma
 Affected Villages      Rurenge, Nyimbyi,       230
 (Imidugudu)            Ruyenzi, Kabashumba,
                        Kabakanda, Murambi,
                        Nyakarambo
 A) Resettlement
 Land for the canal                             230       8.4          Land for land in
 (permanently lost)                                                    Marshland
                                                                       (valued at
                                                                       10,080,000)
 Total                                                                 10,080,000


All of the affected land is in publically owned and in the marshland. In the allocation
of rehabilitated marshland, all PAPs will receive land of an area at least the equivalent
of the area lost.


The District of Ngoma is responsible for the allocation of land in the marshland on the
completion of rehabilitation process.


6.3. Compensation for crops
A census of everyone losing crops due to the rehabilitation process was undertaken.
All the crops were evaluated by the Resettlement and Compensation Committee. The
valuation of those crops used the current rates in Rwanda expropriation law. The
value of crops depends on its type and age.


                                               17
Table 5: Resettlement impact on crops.
 Item                        Number of PAPs        Cost (rwf)
 Crops                       230                   10,384,648


6.5 Linking Compensation to Civil Works
Due to the delay in the preparation of Resettlement Action Plan and inadequate
information on the scope and extent of the rehabilitation process, civil works will
begin in some selected areas of the site, in areas where there are no resettlement
issues, while compensation measures gets completed in others. The areas where civil
works will begin are for construction of site offices only. This approach has been
discussed with the PAPs and an agreement reached during the preparation of this
RAP.




                                              18
7. RESETTLEMENT MEASURES FOR EACH CATEGORY OF ELIGIBLE
   PAPs


PAPs were categorized as shown in the table below:


Table 6: Categories of the PAPs
Categories of PAPs         Number of PAPs              Measures of resettlement
Losing <20% of land        230                         Land for land in marshland
Losing >20% of land        -
Losing Crops               230                         Monetary compensation
Vulnerable                 (None identified to date)




                                              19
8. CONSULTATION WITH PAPs ON ACCEPTABLE ALTERNATIVES.


Consultation meetings with the PAPs began on 12th May 2010 to discuss issues
related to resettlement and compensation. RSSP held meetings with the local
communities at the site for Gisaya in order to inform them about the planned projects.
The local communities were fully involved in all the processes of the development of
this RAP and are well informed about the construction of an irrigation scheme at this
site. The local community also had consultations with the selected committees on
issues arising, primarily regarding compensations.


Upon identification of the PAPs that would be affected by the project, RSSP staff
organized meetings with the Ngoma District to discuss compensation requirements
and concerns. The District also arranged meetings for the negotiations with the local
communities to discuss the alternatives for resettlement and compensation.


8.1. Verification and Disclosure of entitlements
Public consultations took place from the initial stage of RAP preparation with the
local community and PAPs involved in the process of documentation of their assets.
Three individuals on the Resettlement and Compensation Committee had particular
responsibility of verification; one representing the PAPs, one to represent the District
and one the project. Disclosure of entitlement was done in September 2010 and this
was done in order to show to the PAPs the results of the census.




                                           20
8.2. Other meetings and consultations


Table 7: Meeting and Consultation dates
Date (2010)       Meeting or Consultation Purpose
 th
7 May             RSSP met with District of Ngoma to ascertain roles and timeframes for
                  implementation of rehabilitation and compensation processes
12th May          RSSP met with the District of Ngom together with the PAPs to discuss how
                  to proceed with the compensation upon signing of the agreement
26th May          RSSP held meeting with The District of Ngoma to discuss planning and
                  timings of compensation process
1st August        Census meeting held to clearly outline the process and timings for surveying
                  of land, and initiate the census.
17th August       RSSP met with the District of Ngoma, and then with PAPs to hear further
                  queries on the resettlement process


8.3. Main issues raised by the PAPs during the meetings.
The issues raised at the consultation meetings are summarized in Table 8 below, along
with the responses given by the committee.


Table 8: Issues of PAPs and responses given

Issues                          Responses
Whether they will get           Yes, they will get land in the marshland after land
land in the marshland           distribution by the District
Can I receive financial         No, compensation will be given as land for land
compensation for land
Valuing of the crops            The valuation of the crops will be done with reference to
                                current rates applied in Rwanda.
Payment procedure               All compensation payment will be made directly to a
                                bank account or SACCO.
Timing of compensation          The District will begin compensation process two months
                                after census and continue the process until everyone
                                receives their compensation area.
Employment                      The PAPs will be given priority in recruiting during
                                construction works.


8.4. Agreement on compensation and preparation of contracts
The District of Ngoma will prepare an agreement for compensation and for payments
to the PAPs. The District of Ngoma has explained to the PAPs what will be
compensated and the PAPs have elected, where necessary, whether they will receive
cash or compensation in kind and how that will be paid to them.


                                              21
9. GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISM


The first step of redress was to inform those to be expropriated of their rights during
the expropriation process. In the event that the PAP rejects the value given by the
Resettlement and Compensation Committee, they can ask for justification of the
figure from the Committee. Should they still disagree with the value given, they can
appeal to their local leadership starting at the Cell level, then the Sector and finally the
District leadership. The District Land Commission officer has been present at many
of the local meetings and understands the RAP process and local leaders have been
encouraged to consult him when addressing appeals.


If the grievance is not resolved via the local leadership structure, and the Land
Commission upholds the original value, the complainant’s final resort shall be to file
the case to the competent Court of Law. According to Article 26 of the Expropriation
Law N0 18/2007 of 19/04/2007, filing a case in courts of law does not stop
expropriation process to be effected. Article 26 provides complaints procedures for
individuals dissatisfied with the value of their compensation according to the law. It
stipulates that dissatisfied persons have a period of 30 days after project approval
decision has been taken to appeal (Article 19).


To ensure that the affected parties are fully aware and to reduce possible backlog of
complaints, it was noted in advance that most members of the rural communities take
time to decide to complain within 30 day period required to file their complaints. As
per international standards, grievances logged outside this timeframe may still be
valid and legitimate. Customarily, the government expropriation authorities ensure
that all affected people are fully informed, and will issue warnings about the
consequences of failure to lodge their complaints in time. Within this customary
procedure, affected people were informed of the procedures before their assets are
taken.


RSSP will follow up the aggrieved PAP at each level to ensure that the grievances are
resolved. Each sector has identified one PAP to work with RSSP and the local leaders
to ensure that the grievances are attended to in time. This is in addition to the existing
Resettlement Committee.


                                             22
10. DESCRIPTION OF ORGANISATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES


The table below gives the summary of responsibility and roles played by every
institution during the preparation of RAP.


Table 9: Roles and Responsibilities for each institution
ORGANIZATION               ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITY
RSSP extension team • Screening of sub-projects to identify resettlement and
(lead role for the      compensation requirements;
Rural Sociologist and
                      • Work with District of Ngoma to create Resettlement and
Rural Engineer)
                        Compensation Committee;
                           • Provision of capacity building and technical support relating to
                             resettlement and compensation activities;
District authorities       •   Review and sign off of all documentation (e.g. completed
                               RAPs, grievance forms, consultation plans).
                           •   Participation in documentation of assets
                           •   Compensation of RAP
                           •   Responsible in monitoring and implementation
PAPs                       •    Participation in documentation and measurement of assets of
                                PAPs
Resettlement and           Development and implementation of RAP, valuation of assets,
Compensation               distribution of compensation payments, identification of land for
Committee                  replacement, and effective consultation at the sector level, cell
                           level, and at village level (Umudugudu)

                           •   Representation of PAPs
                           •   Elect a representative of the Committee to act as Project
                               Liaison Officer who has regular contact with PAPs and can
                               lead consultation, public participation and grievance
                               mechanisms.
                           •   Responsible for ensuring that grievance mechanisms meet the
                               requirements of the RPF legislation.


10.1. Roles of RSSP during Land Measurements
RSSP played an oversight role in monitoring and ensuring that the process of
surveying the land was done in an open and transparent manner and in the presence of
all the PAPs. RSSP also informed the PAPs in advance and within adequate time on




                                                   23
the dates when the survey and measurements would be done and insisted upon the
             n
presence of the PAPs in all meetings and documentation of assets.


10.2. Roles of the PAPs during Land Measurements
The primary role of the PAPs during the process of measuring land was to be
physically present and ascertain that indeed the measurements were correct and to
                     pon                  satisfied
their satisfaction. Upon being adequately satisfied with the measurements, their
signatures were given as proof of approval.


Figure 1: Signatures of Approval by PAPs




10.3. Roles of Ngoma District during Land Measurements
The authorities of Ngoma District played an important role during survey and
valuation of land targeted for the construction of Ngoma main and secondary
irrigation infrastructures.
    1. Ensure that all the money sent to the districts for RAP implementation is
        given to the affected people on time.
    2. Working with RSSP to ensure the correct implementation of RAP activities.
    3. Ensure that all the complaints concerning the RAP are addressed.


10.4 Additional Roles of RSSP
    1. Ensure that the valuation and validation of assets is undertaken in compliance
        with Government of Rwanda and World Bank
                                 District for payment of compensation
    2. Transferring money to the D                       compensation;
    3. Working together with the District to ensure that complaints are dealt with and
        that the RAP is implemented successfully.




                                           24
11. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE

There will be steps to be followed during the implementation RAP as shown in the
table below


Table 10: Implementation schedule
Item              Main activities                   Responsible       Timing
                                                    institution
Public            Consultation meeting with         -Ngoma District   12th July 2010
consultation      the PAPs to inform them on        -RSSP
                  scheduled activities and their
                  roles to accomplish the RAP
                  and Compensation
Database          Documentation of assets           -Ngoma District   1st to 15th August
                  (crops) and land                  -RSSP             2010
                  measurement
Disclosure of     To display to the PAPs the        -Ngoma District   September 2010
entitlement       results of the census.            -RSSP
Preparation of    Comparison and choice of          -Ngoma District   September 2010
alternatives      the best alternatives of          -RSSP
                  compensation to the PAPs
Compensation      Compensation for crops            -Ngoma District   December 2010
and other
resettlement      Land for land                     -Ngoma District   January 2011
measures
Monitoring        Follow up of the                  -Ngoma District   Ongoing
and               implementation                    -RSSP
supervision




                                               25
12. ESTIMATED COST FOR RESETTLEMENT

Table 11: Estimated cost for resettlement
Item                 Main activities                        Responsible         Cost (rwf)
                                                            institution
Public               Consultation meeting with the          -Ngoma District           280,000
consultation         PAPs to inform them on                 -RSSP             (operating cost)
                     scheduled activities and their roles
                     to accomplish the RAP
Database             Documentation of assets (crops)        -Ngoma District           120,000
                     and land measurement                   -RSSP             (operating cost)
Disclosure of         Display to the PAPs the results of    -Ngoma District           120,000
entitlement          the census.                            -RSSP             (operating cost)
Preparation of       Comparison and choice of the best      -Ngoma District            70,000
alternatives         alternatives of compensation to        -RSSP             (operating cost)
                     the PAPs
Compensation         Compensation for crops                 -Ngoma District       10,384,648
and other
resettlement         Exchange of land for 8.4 (ha)          -Ngoma District       10,080,000
measures             Agricultural land
Total                                                                             21,054,648




                                                 26
13. FRAMEWORK FOR MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING.


Monitoring of the RAP will be carried out during the whole process of land
acquisition and the compensation to ensure that the objectives are met and successful
implementation of the RAP occurs.


The monitoring will be carried out by a committee composed of Ngoma District
representatives, representative at the Sector and Cell level and RSSP, to ensure that all
of the responsible implementing agencies follow the schedule and comply with the
principles of the RAP.


The table below illustrates the compensation implementation plan and responsible
institutions that are expected to oversee the implementation;


Table 12: Monitoring, evaluating and reporting
Item                     Main activities              Responsible       Commencement
                                                      institutions      of monitoring
Public consultation      Consultation meeting with    -Ngoma District   12th July 2010
                         the PAPs to inform them      -RSSP
                         about scheduled activities
                         and their roles to
                         accomplish the RAP
Database                 Documentation of assets      -Ngoma District   1st to 15th August
                         (crops) and land             -RSSP             2010
                         measurement
Disclosure of            To display to the PAPs the   -Ngoma District   September 2010
entitlement              results of the census.       -RSSP
Preparation of           Comparison and choice of     -Ngoma District   September2010
alternatives             the best alternatives of     -RSSP
                         compensation to the PAPs
Compensation and         Compensation for crops       -Ngoma District   December 2010
other resettlement
                         Exchange of land             -Ngoma District   January 2011
measures




                                                 27
13.1 Resettlement Progress Reports and Implementation Completion report



Quarterly Progress Reporting
RSSP is be responsible for managing the data collected for Monitoring and Evaluation
and will regularly monitor performance against identified set of indicators and include
the progress in a quarterly report. Monitoring indicators may include (but are not
limited to):
    (i) Number and place of public consultation meetings held with PAPs and local
               authorities in preparation of, or during RAP implementation
    (ii) Number of PAPs effectively compensated and aggregated amount disbursed
               compensation (include actual versus planned to measure performance) for
               different losses (crops, structures, land)
    (iii)Details about Vulnerable Peoples and compensation provided
    (iv) Number of complaints:
               •   Total received; total justified; total non justified. This should include
                   the subject matter for all complaints; an explanation for non justified
                   complaints
               •   Total resolved at the various levels including at RSSP PSCU level.
                   This should include the type of agreement reached;
               •   Total referred to the legal system, including a clarification on who
                   initiated (RSSP or PAP) the referral and the subject matter.


Suggested performance/evaluation indicators include:
    (i) Total nature and level of all complaints received, resolved.
    (ii) Completion of payment within, or after 2 months of estimated completion date
               indicated in the RAP implementation plan
    (iii)Completion of demolition of structures in the area of site within 3 months after
               the notice to demolish /PAP household to vacate
    (iv) Revival of affected businesses within 4 months after the compensation
               payment (carpentry shop, cattle shelters, etc)
    (v) Submission of monitoring reports at the frequency indicated in the M/E of the
               RAP implementation report




                                                28
Final Report of RAP Implementation
A completion report of the entire resettlement process for this project will be prepared
and will include a hand over certificate which will provide a verification of when the
compensation and assistance were undertaken and to whom these services were
provided as well as to confirm all the compensation has been delivered.


This report will be prepared and submitted to the Bank 6 months after the end of
compensation payment by the District of Nyagatare, together with RSSP II or before
the Implementation Completion Report by the Bank for RSSP II, whichever comes
first. The RAP implementation report should include (but not be limited to) the
following information:
           •   Background of the RAP preparation including a description of the
               project activities, scope of impacts, number of affected persons, and
               estimate budget.

           •   Update of its implementation with actual numbers of displaced persons
               (by   segments/locations    where    necessary),   compensation    paid,
               issues/complaints raised and solutions provided
           •   Complaints status
           •   Early assessment of the impacts of resettlement and compensation on
               affected categories at the time of the report production.
           •   Total sum disbursed
           •   Lessons learned from the RAP implementation
           •   Suggested annexes:


   •   List of people affected as per the RAP report
   •   List of people compensated during implementation
   •   Maps of the roads indicating the segments /sections concerned




                                           29
Annex: Map of Gisaya




                       30
