            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA – H4080)

                                         ON A

                                       CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.3 MILLION
                          (US$ 35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                                        FOR A

              RWANDA SECOND RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
                           IN SUPPORT OF THE
                  RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROGRAM (APL)



                                     April 30, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Agriculture, Rural Development and Irrigation (AFTA2)
Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 18, 2013)

                      Currency Unit = Rwandan franc (RWF)
                               635 RWF = US$ 1
                              0.6629 SDR = US$ 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1 – June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB      African Development Bank
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
ASWG      Agricultural Sector Working Group
BNR       Banque Nationale du Rwanda (National Bank of Rwanda)
CAADP     Comprehensive African Agriculture Development Program
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CETSE     Commercial Enterprise and Technical Support Entity
CEPEX     Central Projects and External Finance Bureau
EDPRS     Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy
EICV      Enquête Intégrale sur les Conditions de Vie des Ménages au Rwanda
          (Household Living Standards Survey)
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FM        Financial management
FY        Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross Domestic Project
GHG       Greenhouse gas
ha        Hectare
HH        Households
ICR       Implementation Completion Results Report
IDA       International Development Association
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPM       Integrated Pest Management
ISR       Implementation Status Report
kg        Kilograms
LDF       Local Development Fund
m         Million
M&E       Monitoring and evaluation
MINAGRI   Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources
MINECOFIN Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MIS       Management Information System
MTR       Mid-term Review
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NISR      National Institute of Statistics of Rwanda
NPK       Nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium (fertilizer)
NPV       Net Present Value
O&M       Operation and Maintenance


                                         ii
OPI      Overall Program Indicators
OPM      Oxford Policy Management Limited
PAC      Program Advisory Committee
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development
PMP      Pest Management Plan
PSCU     Project Support and Coordination Unit
PSTA     Plan Stratégique pour la Transformation Agricole (Strategic Plan for
         Agricultural Transformation)
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RAB      Rwanda Agricultural Board
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RCA      Rwanda Cooperative Agency
REMA     Rwanda Environmental Management Authority
RIF      Rural Investment Facility
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
RSSP     Rural Sector Support Program
RSSP 1   First Rural Sector Support Project
RSSP 2   Second Rural Sector Support Project
RSSP 3   Third Rural Sector Support Project
RWF      Rwandan franc
SLM      Sustainable Land Management
SPIU     Single Project Implementation Unit
SWAp     Sector Wide Approach
t        Metric ton
WUA      Water User Association




                   Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
                 Country Director:   Johannes C.M. Zutt
                  Sector Manager:    Severin L. Kodderitzsch
             Project Team Leader:    Mark A. Austin
                ICR Team Leader:     Mark A. Austin




                                     iii
                                                              RWANDA
                         SECOND RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT (RSSP 2)


                                                            CONTENTS


Data Sheet

A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................................... vi
F. Results Framework Analysis ........................................................................................................ vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in Sirs ........................................................................................ vii
H. Restructuring (if any) Not Applicable ..................................................................................... xii
I. Disbursement Profile ..................................................................................................................... xii


1. Country Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................................. 13
4: Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................................. 21
5. Assessment of Bank and Government of Rwanda Performance .................................................. 22
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................................ 24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Government of Rwanda/SPIU/Partners ..................................... 26

Annexes

Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................................. 27
Annex 2: Main Outputs by Component and Emerging Evidence of Outcomes and Impact ............ 28
Annex 3: RSSP 2 ICR: Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................... 38
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................................ 52
Annex 5: Summary of Key Findings - Stakeholder Impact Assessment Study for RSSP 2 ............ 55
Annex 6: ICR Mission Summary - Findings from Beneficiary & Stakeholder Consultations ......... 60
Annex 7: Summary of the Government of Rwanda’s ICR and Comments on Draft ICR ................ 70

Map




                                                                     iv
                                     DATA SHEET SECTION

                                   RWANDA
                  SECOND RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT (RSSP 2)

A. Basic Information
Country:             Rwanda                 Project Name:            Second Rural Sector Support
Project ID:          P105176                L/C/TF Number(s): IDA-H4080
ICR Date:            04/01/2013             ICR Type:                Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument: APL                     Borrower:
                                                                     RWANDA
Original Total
                     XDR 21.30 m            Disbursed Amount: XDR 21.30 m
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      XDR 21.30 m
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 PSCU-RSSP (MINAGRI)
 Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:         07/24/2007     Effectiveness:             10/22/2008         10/22/2008
Appraisal:              02/05/2008     Restructuring(s):
Approval:               06/24/2008     Mid-term Review:           10/31/2010         10/04/2010
                                       Closing:                   10/31/2012         10/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                   Ratings           Borrower                         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory         Government:                    Highly Satisfactory
                                             Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                                 Highly Satisfactory
                                             Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                        Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                                 Performance:




                                                  v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                     any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality   at      Entry
                           No                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of Supervision
                            No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                      Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agro-industry, marketing, and trade                                      20                    20
General agriculture, fishing, and forestry sector                        50                    50
Irrigation and drainage                                                  30                    30



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other rural development                                                  33                    33
Rural policies and institutions                                          17                    17
Rural services and infrastructure                                        33                    33
Water resource management                                                17                    17

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                                At Approval
Vice President:             Makhtar Diop                            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:           Johannes C.M. Zutt                      Colin Bruce
Sector Manager:             Severin L. Kodderitzsch                 Karen McConnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:        Mark A. Austin                          Michael Morris
ICR Team Leader:            Mark A. Austin
ICR Primary Author:         Richard Anson




                                                    vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

(a) PDO Level/Outcome Indicators:
                              Original Target Values       Formally      Actual Value Achieved
                    Baseline
Indicator                         (from approval        Revised Target at Completion or Target
                     Value
                                    documents)              Values               Years
                   By the end of the project, production of rice in marshlands rehabilitated or
Indicator 1:       developed under RSSP2 has increased by at least 100% relative to the
                   baseline
Value quantitative
                   5,597 t   11,194 t                                   18,675 t
or qualitative)
Date achieved                                                           31 October 2012
Comments (incl. % The target was achieved at 167%. Baseline was finalized once all marshlands to
achievement)       be developed under the project were approved, which was by MTR.

                  By the end of the project, at least 50 percent of farmers in marshland and
Indicator 2:      hillside areas developed or rehabilitated by RSSP 1 and RSSP 2 have adopted
                  sustainable marshland or hillside intensification technologies.
Value
                  25% of HH have adopted at least two of the
quantitative or                                                     50% of HH      98% of HH
                  identified practices
qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   31 October 2012
                The target was achieved at 196%. The PAD defined adoption of sustainable
                intensification technologies as adoption of at least two of the following: soil
                fertility management, IPM, conservation tillage, contour bunding,
                construction of erosion control structures including terraces, vegetative
                strips, and agroforestry practices. Households’ adoption of sustainable
Comments (incl.
                intensification technologies was measured directly from the Impact
% achievement)
                Assessment survey and found to be at 98% (adoption of two of any of the
                technologies). The uptake rates for specific technologies were: 79% using
                IPM, 88% using vegetative strips, and 78% using agroforestry, while radical
                terracing was used by 14% and 22% and conservation tillage by 30% and
                36% of marshland and hillside HH, respectively.

                   By the end of the project, at least 20 cooperatives with business plans and
Indicator 3:       supported by RSSP 2 have increased their revenues from sales by 50%
                   relative to the baseline
                    0 cooperative         20 cooperatives                   67 cooperatives
                                                                            31 October 2012
                    The target achieved at 335%. The PAD indicated that baseline revenues
Value (qualitative would be determined once the cooperatives to be supported were chosen.
or quantitative)   The Impact Assessment survey documented that 67 cooperatives had
                    achieved revenue increases exceeding 50% compared to their respective
                    baseline; these included 18 cooperatives that increased revenues by more than
                    1,000%.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators
                          Original Target Values Formally               Actual Value Achieved at
                Baseline
Indicator                 (from approval         Revised Target         Completion or Target
                Value
                          documents)             Values                 Years



                                                vii
                   By the end of the project, at least 3,300 additional ha of irrigated marshland
Indicator 1:
                   have been rehabilitated or developed by the project (EDPRS/PSTA indicator).
Value
(quantitative or 3,110 ha     6,410 ha                                        6,434 ha
qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                 31 October 2012
                 The target was achieved at 100%. RSSP 2 brought 3,324 ha of new marshland into
Comments
                 operation. Nine sites were developed under RSSP 2, including seven sites
(incl.         %
                 rehabilitated or extended and two sites newly developed. Eight dams were built in
achievement)
                 five sites, while on other sites, only rehabilitation works took place.

                    By the end of the project, at least 75% of the farmers in irrigated marshlands
Indicator 2:        rehabilitated or developed by the project (RSSP 1 and RSSP 2) are paying
                    water charges through water user associations (WUAs).
Value
(quantitative or NA            75%               95%
qualitative)
Date achieved                                    31 October 2012
                 The target was achieved 126%. A Ministerial Order N°001/11.30 establishing
Comments (incl. WUAs in irrigation schemes was approved by the Cabinet in September 2011
% achievement) and published in the Official Gazette nº 50 of 12/12/2011. WUA committees were
                 elected and trained in 23 marshlands, and 95% payment of water fees.

                   By the end of the project, at least 9,900 additional ha of hillsides have been
Indicator 3:
                   sustainably developed by the project (EDPRS/PSTA indicator).
Value
(quantitative or 14,485 ha               24,385 ha                24,581 ha
qualitative)
Date achieved                                                     31 October 2012
                 The target was achieved at 102%. During RSSP 2, 10,096 additional ha (for a total
                 of 24,581 ha) were protected against soil erosion using erosion control structures
Comments (incl.
                 such as terraces, conservation tillage, and contour bunding or by planting permanent
% achievement)
                 crops or permanent vegetation. The baseline includes all hillside ha developed by
                 RSSP 1 (August 2008).

                    By the end of the project, at least 80 cooperatives supported by the project
Indicator 4:
                    have quality business plans under implementation.
Value
(quantitative or    0 cooperatives                     80   80    81
qualitative)
Date achieved                                                      31 October 2012
                The target was achieved at 101%. Of the 83 cooperatives supported by RSSP 2, 81
Comments (incl. have been assisted by their local service providers to develop business plans. RSSP
% achievement) validated the quality of those plans, which are now under implementation
                (executing activities described in the business plan).

               By the end of the project, at least 5 additional cooperatives supported by RSSP 2
Indicator 5:
               are marketing certified maize or potato seed.




                                                viii
Value
(quantitative
              4              9                             9                     19 cooperatives
or
qualitative)
Date
                                                                                 31 October 2012
achieved
Comments
              The target was achieved at 211%. An additional 15 cooperatives supported by RSSP 2
(incl. %
              produce certified maize and potato seed. Certification of seed producers is under RAB.
achievement)

              By the end of the project, with at least 75% of the rural infrastructure subprojects
Indicator 6: funded through the Local Development Fund (LDF), the majority of users are
              satisfied one year after the subproject was completed.
Value
(quantitative
              NA             75%                           75%                  98%
or
qualitative)
Date
                                                                                31 October 2012
achieved
Comments The target was achieved at 130%. The Impact Assessment revealed that over
(incl. %      65% of users are very satisfied with the facilities provided under the LDF and
achievement) over 98% are either very or fully satisfied with the infrastructure.

(c) Overall Program Indicators

                             Original Target Values   Formally    Actual Value Achieved at
                Baseline
Indicator                       (from approval      Revised Target Completion or Target
                Value
                                  documents)           Values              Years
                Change in the average level of household incomes among Programme direct
Indicator 1:
                beneficiary households.
Value
                RWF
quantitative or             NA                        NA                 RWF 232,000
                48,840
qualitative)
Date achieved                                                            31 October 2012
                The baseline for Program Indicator 1 comes from the Impact Assessment
                survey at the end of RSSP 1 and measures income from sales in beneficiary
                households. The Impact Assessment for RSSP 2 used the figure of RWF
                232,000, which is the mean annual consumption expenditure per adult
                equivalent for RSSP 1 beneficiaries taken from the 2010/2011 Integrated
                Household Living Conditions Survey (EICV3). No Target was set (NA).
                These two baselines are not comparable given one measures income and the
Comments
                other consumption. From these numbers it is difficult to say anything more
(incl. %
achievement)    than that the figure has clearly increased. However, it is possible to compare
                the figure for RSSP beneficiaries in sample with a comparator figure from the
                same EICV3 dataset. The comparator figure is for all rural households outside
                Kigali (not benefiting from RSSP) where at least one household member has a
                main job on the family farm and is RWF 214,964. So it can be said that RSSP
                beneficiaries have experienced improvements in their absolute consumption
                figures and have higher consumption levels than their peers in Rwanda.
                Given the lack of comparability between income and consumption, it was



                                                ix
                agreed that the evaluation RSSP 3 for the Program level indicator 1 would
                measure both income and consumption.

                 Change in the percentage of Programme direct beneficiary households under
Indicator 2:
                 the poverty line.
Value
quantitative or 65.7%                NA          NA          39.3%
qualitative)
Date achieved                                                31 October 2012
                The baseline for Indicator 2 is also taken from the Impact Assessment survey
                for RSSP 1. The equivalent figure for 2010/11 from the EICV3 data is 39.3%
Comments (incl.
                for RSSP 1 and 2 beneficiaries, a significant reduction in the proportion of
% achievement)
                beneficiary households below the poverty line. The rural poor in Rwanda
                remain at 48.7% (EICV3). No Target was set (NA).

              Change in the average level of rice yields per hectare in districts having
Indicator 3:
              marshlands rehabilitated or developed by the Programme.
Value                                                                           5.68t/ha     in     2012
(qualitative                                                                    average for Districts
              2.7 t/ha              NA                           NA
or                                                                              and 6.7t/ha for RSSP 2
quantitative)                                                                   beneficiaries
Date
                                                                                31 October 2012
achieved
              Indicator 3 is measured from MINAGRI crop assessment surveys. The districts in
Comments which RSSP had rehabilitated or developed marshlands were identified, and the average
(incl. %      crop yield calculated by simply dividing total production in those districts by area under
achievement) rice production. RSSP direct beneficiary production data are available at RSSP M&E
              department. No target was set (NA).


(d) APL Phase 3 triggers

                                    Original Target Values          Formally     Actual Value Achieved
                  Baseline
Indicator                               (from approval           Revised Target     at Completion or
                   Value
                                          documents)                 Values            Target Years
                 By the end of the project, at least 3,300 additional ha of irrigated marshlands
Indicator 1:
                 have been rehabilitated or developed by the project (EDPRS/PSTA indicator).
Value            3,110        ha
(quantitative or baseline for 6,410                             6,410            6,434 ha
qualitative)     RSSP 2
Date achieved                                                                    31-Oct-2012
                 The target was achieved at 100%. RSSP 2 brought 3,324 ha of new marshland into
Comments
                 operation. Nine sites were developed under RSSP 2, including seven sites
(incl. %
                 rehabilitated or extended and two sites newly developed. Eight dams were built in
achievement)
                 five sites, while on other sites only rehabilitation works took place.

               By the end of the project, at least 9,900 additional ha of hillsides have been
Indicator 2:
               sustainably developed by the project (EDPRS/PSTA indicator).
Value
(quantitative 14,485 ha         24,385 ha                                    24,581 ha
or qualitative)


                                                   x
Date achieved                                                             31 October 2012
             The target was achieved at 102%. During RSSP 2, 10,096 additional ha (for a total of
Comments     24,581 ha) were protected against soil erosion using erosion control structures such as
(incl. %     terraces, conservation tillage, and contour bunding or by planting permanent crops or
achievement) permanent vegetation. The baseline includes all hillside ha developed by RSSP 1
             (August 2008).

                By the end of Phase 2, average crop yields on farmed marshlands and hillsides
Indicator 3:    developed under the project are 100% higher relative to the beginning-of-Phase-
                1 baseline.
Value           Rice: 3 t/ha     Rice: 6 t/ha            Rice: 6 t/ha           Rice: 6.7 t/ha
(quantitative Maize: 0.8 t/ha Maize: 1.6 t/ha            Maize: 1.6 t/ha        Maize: 4.05 t/ha
or qualitative) Potato: 8.6 t/ha Potato: 17.2 t/ha       Potato: 17.2 t/ha      Potato: 19.7 t/ha
Date achieved                                                                   31-Oct-2012
Comments
(incl. %         The target achieved at 111% for rice, 253% for maize and 115% for Potato.
achievement)

                 By the end of Phase 2, crop-derived incomes of farmers assisted by CETSES are
Indicator 4:
                 50 percent higher relative to the end-of-Phase-1 baseline.
Value            RWF 46,207
(quantitative or (from 2008 IA     RWF 69,311                           RWF 69,311 RWF 157,121
qualitative)     survey)
Date achieved                                                                      31-Oct-2012
                Target achieved at 226%. The mean income derived from crop sales over the
Comments
             past 12 months at the end of RSSP 2 was RWF 157,121. The Impact
(incl. %
achievement) Assessment study calculated this figure from the sales of banana, rice, wheat,
                cassava, and maize (the same crops used for the baseline).

                By the end of the project, at least 75% of the farmers in irrigated marshlands
Indicator 5:    rehabilitated or developed by the project (RSSP 1 and RSSP 2) are paying water
                charges through water user associations.

Value
(quantitative N/A             75%                      75%                            95%
or qualitative)

Date achieved                                                                     31-Oct-2012
             The target was achieved at 126%. A Ministerial Order N°001/11.30 establishing
Comments
             WUAs in irrigation schemes was approved by the Cabinet in September 2011 and
(incl. %
achievement) published in the Official Gazette nº 50 of 12/12/2011. WUA committees were elected
             and trained in 23 marshlands and 95% payment of water fees

                By the end of the project, at least 20 cooperatives with business plans and
Indicator 6:    supported by RSSP 2 have increased their revenues from sales by 50% relative to
                the baseline
Value
                                                                                     67
(quantitative 0 cooperative     20 cooperatives        20 cooperatives
                                                                                     cooperatives
or qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                        31-Oct-2012



                                                  xi
              The target was achieved at 335%. The PAD indicated that baseline revenues
Comments     would be determined once the cooperatives to be supported were chosen. The
(incl. %     Impact Assessment survey documented that 67 cooperatives increased their
achievement) revenues by more than 50% compared to their respective baselines; these
             included 18 cooperatives where revenues rose by more than 1,000%.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

           Date ISR                                              Actual Disbursements
 No.                             DO                   IP
           Archived                                                  (US$ millions)
  1       12/22/2008         Satisfactory         Satisfactory            3.27
  2        5/11/2009         Satisfactory         Satisfactory            3.92
  3       08/10/2009         Satisfactory         Satisfactory            4.68
  4       03/30/2010         Satisfactory         Satisfactory            8.91
  5       11/28/2010         Satisfactory         Satisfactory           16.25
  6        07/9/2011         Satisfactory         Satisfactory           22.06
  7       10/20/2011         Satisfactory         Satisfactory           22.84
  8       06/11/2012         Satisfactory         Satisfactory           31.78


H. Restructuring (if any)
   Not Applicable.

I. Disbursement Profile




                                            xii
1. Country Context, Development Objectives, and Design
1.1 Country Context
1.      The 1994 genocide and the preceding civil conflicts left Rwanda among the poorest
countries in the world, with a per capita income of US$ 245 in 2008—far lower than its 1990 per
capita income of US$ 370. The poverty headcount (households living below the poverty line of
US$ 1 per day) had increased from 40 percent in 1985 to 51.2 percent in 1993 and to 57 percent
in 2008. Rwanda’s population of 9.5 million in 2008 was growing at 2.8 percent per year. At 387
persons per                                           the 10 most densely populated countries in
the world and the highest in sub-Saharan Africa. In early 2008, 90 percent of Rwandans lived in
rural areas, where about 80 percent engaged in subsistence agriculture. The rural poverty
headcount stood at 67 percent in 2008.1

2.      Rapid population growth and the scarcity of new arable land seriously threatened the
rural sector’s revival. Rwanda faced increasing labor intensity and declining labor productivity in
agriculture, declining average farm size (0.2 ha of arable agricultural land net of permanent
pasture per rural resident), worsening land degradation, pressure on off-farm employment and
wages, and fragile food security. Growth in agricultural production had fallen from 0.8 percent
over 1975-84, to -2.2 percent over 1985-1989, and further to -6.7 percent between 1990 and
1996.2 Poor performance of agriculture was costly for the overall economy—the sector
contributed 39 percent of GDP in 2008, down from 44 percent of GDP in 1990, and accounted
for 80 percent of employment and 63 percent of foreign earnings.3

3.      Research confirmed that better growth in agriculture would be achieved through better
integration of Rwanda’s smallholder farmers into market transactions.




        Government confirmed its intent to intensify and commercialize agriculture and diversify
economic activities in the rural areas, and to shift from the past approach of food security toward
a greater market orientation.                     realized that raising agricultural productivity,
increasing production, and meeting the demand of the domestic food markets was critical to
increasing food security and reducing poverty. Government also sought to transition farmers
from subsistence to commercial farming, as consistently reflected in a series of national and
sector strategies. Accordingly, the Bank assisted GoR to design a three-phase Adaptable Program
Loan (APL) to help implement this strategy. An urgent priority for Government to address its

1
  RSSP2 Project Appraisal Document(PAD), 2008, p.1., www.indexmundi.com and Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) FY09-FY12, 2009, p.5.
2
  RSSP1 Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR), 2008, p.1.
3
    The following sources (respectively): GDP: National Institute of Statistics of Rwanda (NISR), 2005; employment:
  n uete Int grale sur les Conditions de ie des         nages au Rwanda      IC     2 005-06; FE earnings: Banque Nationale du Rwanda
(BNR)/Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MINECOFIN), 2006..
4
  Agriculture Policy Note: Promoting Pro-Poor Agricultural Growth in Rwanda: Challenges and Opportunities, World Bank, 2007

                                                                 1
structural food deficit and increased share of marketed production was the development for
irrigation of 60,000 ha of marshlands, along with the sustainable development of surrounding
hillsides, which are two main pillars supported by the RSSP APL series. 5

5.     The Second Rural Sector Support Project (RSSP 2) comprised the second phase of a 17-
year Adaptable Program Loan (APL) being implemented in three phases by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Animal Resources (MINAGRI). RSSP aims
                                                                                 . The RSSP APL
series seeks to achieve this objective by providing the technology, infrastructure, support
services, and institutional capacity needed for faster growth in the rural economy.

    Phase 1: 2001-08: The emphasis during the first phase was on building the institutional,
     technical, and human capacity to support the adoption of sustainable intensification
     technologies in developed marshlands and surrounding hillsides. This phase faced enormous
     challenges in implementation due to an overly complex design and weak institutional
     capacity but rebounded from near cancelation after a restructuring following the Mid-term
     Review (MTR) and securing a two-year extension. It achieved its development objectives
     and the overall outcome of this phase was rated Satisfactory.
    Phase 2: 2008-13: During the second phase, the emphasis was on broadening and deepening
     the support provided to accelerate the intensification and commercialization of agricultural
     production. The overall outcome of this phase is rated Highly Satisfactory as reflected in the
     present Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR).
    Phase 3: 2013-18: During the third and final phase, launched in July 2012, the stimulus
     resulting from faster growth in agricultural production from RSSP 2 is to provide the basis
     for promoting diversification of economic activities in rural areas as a way of increasing and
     stabilizing rural incomes. The current ISR ratings at the time of submitting this ICR (April
     2013) are Satisfactory for both DO and IP.
6.      RSSP 2 (2008-13, US$35 million IDA credit) became effective in September 2008 and
completed in October 2012. Building upon the institutional, technical, and human capacity
created in RSSP 1 to support the adoption of sustainable intensification technologies in
developed marshlands and surrounding hillsides, RSSP 2 focused on increasing agricultural
production and marketing in the marshlands and hillsides of targeted areas. The sound project
design and effective implementation—involving marshland rehabilitation (an additional 3,324 ha
of irrigated marshland),6 hillside development (benefitting 10,000 ha), and the creation and
strengthening of 81 cooperatives—created positive synergies between project components.
Those synergies enhanced implementation and the effectiveness of the results chain. They grew
stronger and otherwise benefited from a positive policy and institutional environment,
championed by the Minister of MINAGRI and members of a proactive and supportive Program
Advisory Committee (PAC).

7.    Rationale for Bank Involvement. The World Bank supported RSSP 2 because: (i)
Government’s vision for agriculture matched the World Bank’s priorities; (ii) GoR had

5
 GoR’s Vision 2020 Strategy (2002-20);); National Agricultural Policy (2005); Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS,
2008-12); and Second Strategic Plan for Agricultural Transformation (PSTA 2, 2008-12).
6
 This also included construction of 8 dams, 164 km of primary canals, 160 km of secondary canals, 70 km of drainage canals,
and 44 km of access roads.

                                                                   2
demonstrated a clear vision and commitment to developing its agricultural sector through the
development of coherent, complementary policies and strategies and support of the RSSP APL
series; (iii) as lead donor and co-chair of the Agriculture Sector Working Group, the Bank played
a crucial role in harmonizing development partners’ efforts; iv GoR specifically requested
continued Bank support for the sustainable development of marshlands and surrounding
hillsides; and (v) the operation was conceived as the second phase of the successful RSSP 1
operation.
1.2 Original Program and Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators
8.      Programmatic objective. The long-term programmatic objective of the RSSP APL
series is to help GoR achieve its strategic goal of unlocking rural growth in order to increase
incomes and reduce poverty.

9.     The RSSP APL series has three Overall Program Indicators (OPIs), which are to be
measured at the end of each phase and tracked as part of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system. The OPIs are:

    change in the average level of household incomes among Program direct beneficiary
     households (income growth objective);
    change in the percentage of Program direct beneficiary households under the poverty line
     (poverty reduction objective); and
    change in the average level of rice yields per hectare in districts 7 having marshlands
     rehabilitated or developed by the Program (productivity growth objective).
10.     The Project Development Objective (PDO) of RSSP Phase 2 was to increase
agricultural production and marketing in marshland and hillside areas targeted for development
under the project in an environmentally sustainable manner. To achieve this objective, the
project was to extend and deepen the technical and institutional support generated in RSSP 1 and
raise the level of investment activities to accelerate the pace of intensification and
commercialization of agricultural production. Key Indicators8 linked to the PDO were:

    by the end of the Project, production of rice in marshlands rehabilitated or developed under
     RSSP 2 has increased by 100 percent relative to the baseline;
    by the end of the Project, 50 percent of farmers in marshland and hillside areas developed or
     rehabilitated by RSSP 1 and RSSP 2 have adopted sustainable marshland or hillside
     intensification technologies;9 and
    by the end of the Project, at least 20 cooperatives having quality business plans and being
     supported by RSSP 2 have increased their revenues from sales by 50 percent relative to the
     baseline.

7
  The project is monitoring rice yields at the district level for reporting on indicator 3 of the RSSP Program and at the beneficiary
level for RSSP 2.
  These indicators were to be measured by annual review of MINAGRI statistics, annual beneficiary surveys, and data and
reports from cooperatives.
9
  Adoption of sustainable intensification technologies is defined for the purpose of the RSSP as adoption of at least two of the
following practices: soil fertility management (including appropriate use of organic and/or inorganic fertilizer), integrated pest
management (IPM), conservation tillage, contour bunding, construction of erosion control structures including terraces,
vegetation strips, and agroforestry practices.

                                                                 3
1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
11.      The PDO was not revised during the project.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
12.     The project had two direct beneficiary groups (and the avenues through which they were
assisted): farmers in the project areas (81,629 households) (through better cropping and post-
harvest activities, higher productivity, and ultimately higher incomes for further productive
investments); and farmer organizations in the project area (81 cooperatives and 22 Water User
Associations, WUAs) (though capacity building and institutional support).
1.5 Original Components
13.     Component 1: Marshlands and hillsides rehabilitation and development (Original
Cost: US$ 26.5 million; Actual Cost: US$ 27.1 million). This component sought to accelerate
agricultural intensification by expanding irrigated area in cultivated marshlands and increasing
the use of sustainable land management practices on associated hillsides. The main activities
included rehabilitating and/or developing irrigation infrastructure on at least 3,300 ha of
marshland and supporting the adoption of sustainable agricultural intensification practices on at
least 9,900 ha of surrounding hillsides. The component was organized around two main
subcomponents. Specific task (subcomponents) undertaken included:
     marshlands rehabilitation and development, including support for rehabilitation and
      development of gravity irrigation schemes in various marshlands selected by District
      Government authorities based on predefined criteria (the projected economic rate of return,
      evidence of commitment from beneficiaries, contribution to national food security, and likely
      sustainable social and environmental impacts); and
     sustainable development of hillsides to improve the productivity of farming systems on
      hillsides adjacent to the marshlands where irrigation schemes were developed. This
      subcomponent financed the promotion of soil and water conservation technologies and
      sustainable cropping practices on the hillsides.
14.     Component 2. Strengthening commodity chains (Original Cost: US$ 5.5 million;
Actual Cost: US$ 5.3 million). The objective of Component 2 was to support the
commercialization of smallholder agriculture in targeted marshland and hillside areas by
diversifying and intensifying production, promoting agricultural value addition, and expanding
access to markets. This component used a commodity chain approach, supporting rural
entrepreneurs and assisting cooperatives to adopt sound business practices. The component had
four subcomponents. Specific task (subcomponents) undertaken included:
     strengthening farmer organizations and cooperatives to improve their governance
      mechanisms and instilling sound business practices;
     improving production technologies to improve production and productivity of marshland and
      hillside farming systems;
     rural investments for economic infrastructure for farmer organizations, cooperatives, non-
      governmental organizations (NGOs), and districts for strategic investments in public goods
      and services (community grain drying and storage facilities, rural roads); and


                                                  4
      knowledge generation and dissemination that supported diagnostic studies, market surveys,
       and problem-focused applied research.
15.    Component 3. Project coordination and support (Original Cost US$ 6.3 million;
Actual Cost: US$ 6.6 million). This component supported the Project Support and Coordination
Unit (PSCU) to ensure: (i) efficient execution of administrative, financial management, and
procurement functions; (ii) coordination of project activities among the various stakeholders; (iii)
timely implementation and monitoring of environmental and land-use management frameworks
mandated by World Bank safeguards policies; and (iv) establishment and operation of the M&E
system.
1.6 Revised Components
16.         The components were not revised during the project.
1.7 Other Significant Changes
17.     Two significant changes arose during implementation—a financing gap and the merger
of the project’s PSCU with another project’s PSCU becoming the Special Project
Implementation Unit, SPIU)—but did not lead to a revision of the project’s objectives and
targets. Financing gap. At MTR, a financing gap of (US$ 5.2 million) had emerged for
Component 1 resulting from: unforeseen increases in local fuel prices and construction material;
rising competition throughout Rwanda for construction services, which raised bid prices;
changes in the SDR/US dollar exchange rate; and underestimation of physical and price
contingencies (at only 0.2 percent of estimated project costs). Options to cover the financing gap
were identified during the MTR mission and a joint decision taken to use cost savings from the
Strengthening Commodity Chains component, select lower-cost irrigation schemes, and increase
Government’s contribution. Merger of PSCUs. The last year of RSSP 2 saw a smooth, gradual
merger (initiated in May 2011 and completed in January 2012) of implementation units for RSSP
2 and a companion Bank-funded project, the Land Husbandry, Water Harvesting, and Hillside
Irrigation Project (LWH) into a SPIU. The merger was part of INAGRI’s initiative to
consolidate and harmonize implementation arrangements for all donor-supported projects. This
government-initiated merger contributed to the project’s sustainability objectives in the sector.
Additionally, the SPIU implementation arrangements were designed to support the eventual
transition of responsibilities from the SPIU to government ministries and agencies, as they
developed sufficient capacity. The agreed changes were sound; responded to exogenous factors;
enhanced management, technical, and implementation efficiencies; and enhanced project
outcomes.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
18.     Project design and preparation were well thought out, comprehensive, and responsive to
the strategic context and led to effective implementation and achievement of key outcomes. The
preparation process benefited from updated national policies and strategies (EDPRS, the
operational strategies emerging from PSTA 2)10 and Government’s strong commitment for a

10
     The Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy and second Plan Stratégique pour la Transformation Agricole.

                                                              5
second phase. The design benefited from lessons from phase 1, a sound and coherent results
approach and framework, an appropriate balance among investments and capacity building,
specific attention to the development of commodity chains, and institutional arrangements.

19.    Adequacy of Government Commitment. The government demonstrated strong
ownership for Phase 2, as shown by how authorities at the central and local levels cooperated
with and strongly supported the government-led preparatory work, including technical studies
funded by a Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant. Government exhibited
willingness to meet more rigorous safeguard requirements and agreed to introduce, legally
formalize, and operationalize WUAs. Credit effectiveness was achieved within three months of
approval. GoR budgeted resources to fully fund activities for each year of the project.

20.     Lessons Learned from RSSP 1. Five key lessons from phase 1 were considered in
designing the second phase. First, design a simple project with 2-3 straightforward components
and maintain a tight focus on an implementation plan that is manageable, given the capacity
constraints under which the project operates. Second, develop and consistently apply clearly
defined criteria—technical, economic, social, and environmental—to guide the selection of
marshlands to be rehabilitated or developed by the project. Third, build capacity among project
beneficiaries (specifically, cooperatives) early in the project and sustain that effort throughout
the project. Fourth, build capacity in the PSCU/SPIU to ensure effective implementation of the
four safeguards policies triggered by RSSP 2 (OP/BP 4.01, OP/BP 4.04, OP/BP 4.09, OP 4.12).
Finally, review the objectives, design, and institutional arrangements of the Rural Investment
Facility (RIF) created and financed in RSSP 1.

21.     Alignment of Results Framework. The project results framework and performance
indicators were aligned with key indicators in the EDPRS monitoring matrix, PSTA 2, and the
common performance assessment framework. The results framework was based on a clearly
defined PDO and supported by measureable performance indicators at the higher and
intermediate levels, and it guided the design of the results chain, in which activities in each
component and subcomponent contributed directly to the envisioned outcomes and impacts.

22.     Investment/Capacity Building Balance. The design determined the right balance and
sequence for infrastructure investments and capacity development for participating cooperatives,
and it created appropriate linkages between and among project components/subcomponents.
RSSP 2 preparation highlighted that many cooperatives from RSSP 1 were not functioning
effectively and required strengthening for the project to succeed and its benefits to be
sustained.11 RSSP 2 funded the strengthening of cooperatives at almost twice the level of RSSP 1
and refined the timing of those activities. Greater support and increased technology transfer
helped expand the scope and sustainability of project benefits. For example, members of
cooperatives had better access to improved agricultural technology, to project-funded post-
harvest drying and storage infrastructure, to finance from local banks for inputs and capital
investments, and to enhanced marketing outlets for their larger volumes of produce.



11
  As noted, a vital lesson from RSSP 1 was to develop capacity in the cooperatives upfront—especially capacity to improve
business plans, financial management, and accountability.

                                                           6
23.      Commodity Chain Development. Building on RSSP 1, RSSP 2 strengthened
approaches to developing commodity chains for leading food staples (rice, maize, bananas) and
in parallel promoted market opportunities emerging for niche commodities such as Irish
potatoes, wheat, and vegetables. The project supported farmer organizations from post-harvest
handling to the expansion of agro-processing and participation in marketing systems and
activities. This work proved critical to achieving the project’s development objectives, as part of
the results chain to the higher-level objectives.

24.     Implementation Arrangement Design. Implementation arrangements were
satisfactorily designed. They built on the successful arrangements for RSSP 1 and added some
additional innovations, including: further decentralization of project staff involved in
procurement and M&E to the district level; stronger linkages with MINAGRI agencies at the
field level to sustain the project’s benefits (especially involving technology transfer); the
introduction and strengthening of WUAs, which are playing a key role in sustaining irrigation
benefits; enhanced approaches to developing capacity in cooperatives with a strong business
orientation and enhanced accountability/governance mechanisms, including procurement
committees.
2.2 Implementation
25.      Project implementation was highly satisfactory, leading to key achievements in
marshland rehabilitation, hillside development, and strengthening of agricultural cooperatives.
Several enabling factors led to these accomplishments, even given the initial delays resulting
from exogenous factors. The project became effective within three months of approval. Upon
effectiveness, the PSCU moved expeditiously to contract works. Some of these early works were
facilitated by the timely availability (by effectiveness) of technical studies for 10 marshland
schemes (covering 3,072 ha), funded by RSSP 1.

26.      Key Achievements and Enabling Factors. The project design and implementation
facilitated a mix of investments/“hardware? and capacity building/“software? interventions
which resulted in an additional 3,324 ha of irrigated marshland being rehabilitated (t

                                           hillside development (benefitting 10,000 ha), and
the creation and strengthening of 81 cooperatives. Key enabling factors that led to these
achievements included:

        reform of the cooperatives law, which improved the establishment (membership criteria),
         organization, functioning, and management (including stringent audit requirements) of
         cooperatives to make them more transparent and viable;
        the rice marketing study conducted under RSSP 2, which contributed to MINAGRI’s
         formulation and Cabinet approval of an enhanced rice processing and marketing policy.
         The policy promoted higher standards for rice quality and resulted in better market prices
         for paddy;12
        The Cabinet-approved policy (2011) to establish WUAs; and


12
   Rwanda has been a net importer of rice and has a policy of achieving rice self-sufficiency by the year 2017. The country is on-
track as 70 percent of internal rice consumption was covered by national production in 2012.

                                                                7
   the project’s institutional support through 20 local service providers (LSPs), which were
    selected and trained to impart intensive, customized capacity building in business practices,
    financial accountability, and agricultural technology to cooperatives and farmers.
        Marketing/Value Chains. To create
                   he project implemented specific activities in the upper (production) segment
of the commodity chain to link b



28.     Capacity Development. Multi-layered training targeted different types of beneficiaries
within the cooperatives. This results-focused training developed the foundation for a production
and marketing system superior to the traditional, subsistence-oriented system prevailing before
the project. The impact of this new system on cooperatives was evident in better management
structures, computerized production data and membership information, employment creation
(479 full-time and 706 part-time jobs), development of operational strategic plans as a
framework for commodity-specific business plans, tools to achieve improved efficiencies and
competitiveness, strategies and business plans that promoted viable value-added enterprises, and
a stronger business orientation to customers (versus products alone). Improvements in
infrastructure, coupled with appropriate intensive training and improved agricultural
technologies and inputs, fostered high rates of adoption (98 percent) of specific improved
technologies, rapid increases in crop productivity and yields (rice yield increase from 2.7 t/ha to
5.7 t/ha within participating districts and to 6.7 t/ha for direct beneficiaries), farm and income
diversification (for example, the introduction of livestock and fishery activities), and resulting
higher farm incomes (more than 100 percent for many beneficiaries).

29.     Initial implementation delays. Initial delays resulted from: (i) flooding, which delayed
contractors’ work in some schemes; (ii) lack of equipment among some contractors; and (iii) a
delay in strengthening WUAs, which could not legally form until Parliament had passed a law to
that effect activities to strengthen WUAs commenced at the TR in preparation for the law’s
passage, which occurred more than mid-way through implementation). Although these delays
were out of the project’s control, they were resolved sufficiently and rapidly that the project
completed its activities 12 months before closing.

30.     The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) had not reviewed this project at entry or during
implementation. QAG carried out a Governance and Anti-corruption assessment in FY08,
essentially as a baseline. There has been no follow-up assessment.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization
31.     M&E Design. The design of RSSP 2’s & system was sound, building on the
challenges and lessons from RSSP 1 and on a well-prepared, coherent results and monitoring
framework allowing effective monitoring of progress toward the PDO using effective collection
methods. The system featured generally clear and prioritized indicators (at each level in the
results chain); employed cost-effective and reliable data collection methods, systems, processes,
and arrangements; and was decentralized and participatory, involving district-level M&E officers
and cooperative officers with some basic M&E skills. The results framework and supporting

                                                8
indicators reflected a sound link between the PDO and intermediate outcomes and responded to
priority sectoral constraints. It was explicitly aligned with and contributed to key agricultural
sector objectives and performance indicators outlined in the EDPRS and PSTA 1 and 2, and with
the M&E system of MINAGRI and MINECOFIN (the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning).

32.     Two shortcomings in M&E design for RSSP 2 were improved during implementation and
are being further improved under RSSP 3. The project’s marketing objective lacked well-defined
performance indicators, although the M&E system includes a number of proxy indicators. Nor
did the project provide sufficiently robust, results-focused performance indicators for the
cooperatives it strengthened. Cooperatives’ performance was measured by increases in their
revenues only, which may not accurately measure net profitability and efficiency, including
cooperatives’ effectiveness in engaging and efficiently negotiating in input and output marketing.

to strengthen and evaluate the sustainability of cooperatives.13

33.     M&E Implementation. M&E implementation was facilitated by the collection of
appropriate data using appropriate methods and was enabled by the following key factors:
 the M&E system was well designed to track key activities and develop quarterly and annual
    reports on performance targets and progress toward triggers for Phase 3;
 the PSCU benefitted from continuity in the competent, experienced M&E staff recruited
    following the MTR for RSSP 1. The Bank’s & specialist in Kigali offered responsive
    technical advisory support;
 participants in the project’s decentralized M&E system provided reliable data, including
    cooperatives (each had a focal person trained in basic M&E skills) and MINAGRI (crop
    assessment data); and
 independent evaluations focused on strategic themes including: commodity chain and other
    technical studies to sharpen Component 2 interventions (especially for rice); a mid-term
    report (2010); the Oxford Policy Management (OPM) final evaluation report updating
    performance indicators and impact assessment; and Government’s ICR.

34.      M&E Utilization. Key actors confirm the usefulness, reliability, and value-added of
information from the project’s M&E system to inform decision-making and resource allocation.
For example, weekly presentations by the M&E team facilitated focused, timely management
decisions based on real-time physical and budget implementation. The dashboard and
procurement reports alerted project management and staff to progress and issues requiring timely
resolution; the reports also proved valuable to Bank supervision missions. The quarterly and
annual reports were used by: MINAGRI management to inform project planning and oversight
needs; MINECOFIN/CEPEX officials for their project performance reports and high-level
  uarterly reviews; the Prime inister’s Office for project/policy monitoring; and the Bank task
teams as key inputs for supervision/implementation missions. Innovative “results stories?
presented beneficiaries’ accounts of how the project had affected their lives; the stories were
disseminated widely in a range of formats, including nationally televised video segments.

                         value-added activities, increased production,



                                                      9
35.     SPIU continues to improve the design, implementation, and use of the M&E system in
RSSP 3. For example, it is reinforcing capacity at the district, cooperative, and self-help group
levels to sustain the M&E system at the field level, maintain the focus on results, and provide
information throughout the cropping season for MINAGRI and cooperatives.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance




39.      Procurement. Procurement performance was generally satisfactory, building on the
sound procurement design and effective implementation. Procurement also demonstrably
improved during implementation. Annex 2 describes the constraints that delayed some of the
initial contracts and explains how they were overcome after the first year. Annex 2 also details
improvements in managing and monitoring contracts.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


                                               10
40.     Transition Phase. Given that RSSP 2 finished implementing physical activities about
one year ahead of schedule and meeting the triggers for RSSP 3 by the end of 2011, the
transition period was advanced and was used to consolidate results, ensure the quality of the
infrastructure developed under the project, and build soft skills among cooperatives and other
beneficiaries. In early 2011, GoR requested the Bank to bring forward and speed up preparation
and processing of RSSP 3. A combined supervision and RSSP 3 preparation mission in
September 2011 helped lay the groundwork to close RSSP 2 smoothly, update the work plan,
and transition seamlessly to RSSP 3. The transition included expediting the independent impact
assessment (confirming that RSSP 3 triggers had been met), drafting Government’s ICR and
advancing technical studies and other preparatory work for RSSP 3 (funded by RSSP 2).
Appraisal of RSSP 3 was completed in January 2012; the project was approved by the Bank’s
Board in March 2012 and declared effective on June 20, 2012.

41.    Since the RSSP 2 and RSSP 3 SPIU team and implementation arrangements were one
and the same, they assured a smooth transition. Building on the results and momentum from
RSSP 2, RSSP 3 has had a strong start since it became effective in June 2012, disbursing 16
percent of its resources in the first eight months. It has launched a number of works and studies
and successfully organized 11,584 hillside farmers in small groups. It is ahead of schedule to
achieve key outcomes and objectives.

42.     Key Changes for RSSP 3. RSSP 3 incorporates two key changes based on lessons from
RSSP 2. First, WUAs are being established and strengthened at the start of irrigation works. This
approach instills ownership and understanding of the irrigation schemes—of how they function
and of the roles and responsibilities of all water users. The approach also reinforces the need to
operate and maintain the infrastructure (a public good) properly and to separate that
responsibility from the cooperative, which essentially engages in private productive and
entrepreneurial activities. Second, instead of working with multiple hillside cooperatives spread
throughout the country, RSSP 3 is adopting the more targeted and approach of establishing and
strengthening cooperatives on the hillsides that surround RSSP 3 marshlands. RSSP 3 is also
strengthening a few cooperatives that entered RSSP 2 towards the end of the project.

43.                                         . The GoR has specific arrangements to sustain the
impacts of RSSP 2. In addition to pursuing RSSP 3, Government is maintaining a favorable
policy and institutional environment, replicating the marshland and hillside investment model,
maintaining high adoption rates, and strengthening the operation of viable cooperatives.

44.    Policy




                                               11
45.




46.




47.




48.




RAB establishes and maintains alliances with international research centers to disseminate new
agricultural technologies to farmers. Government’s sustainability strategy includes measures that
will strengthen these alliances and ensure a steady flow of improved technologies.


                                               12
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1      Relevance of Objectives and Design
50.     The project’s objectives were and continue to be highly relevant in addressing and
            central objectives and performance indicators at the country and sectoral levels. They
are closely aligned with objectives outlined in the EDPRS, PSTA 2 (and emerging PSTA 3), the
Bank’s CAS, and the CAS Progress Report.14 RSSP 1 and RSSP 2 were—and RSSP 3 remains—
a key mechanism for Government to increase agricultural production and reduce rural poverty in
marshlands and associated hillsides.

51.    Additional indications of RSSP 2’s relevance is that PSTA 3 gives high priority to key
elements of RSSP 2, such as continued intensification of food production; expanded,
economically viable marshland irrigation schemes to support food security objectives;
productivity increases on hillsides (the dominant agricultural land area); increased reliance on
market-based policies and strategies; and an expanded private sector role (catalyzed through
public-private partnerships).

52.     The project’s design and implementation were and continue to be highly relevant for
meeting its objectives, especially the focus on strengthening WUAs and on developing
cooperatives through improved business practices and accountability mechanisms, expanded
farmer membership and participation, and proactive advisory services in technology transfer
(through lead farmers and farmer-based extension). RSSP 2’s operational mechanisms and
decentralized approach remain consistent with the national decentralized rural development
strategy, with many implementation functions (such as community procurement, local contact
monitoring, and basic M&E data collection) performed by provincial and district officers. The
perception among district officials, farmers, and cooperatives that these “software? elements are

14
  See the Rwanda – Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report (February 9, 2011), especially references to progress in theme
1 Promoting Rwanda’s conomic Transformation for Sustained Growth?) and Annex 2 (updated and revised CAS Outcome
Indicators).

                                                            13
vital and have had positive impacts affirms the soundness and relevance of the project’s design
and implementation.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (PDOs)
53.    RSSP 2 has achieved and substantially exceeded its development objectives. The PDO
was to increase agricultural production and marketing in marshland and hillside areas targeted
for development under the Project in an environmentally sustainable manner.

54.     The PDO is divided into three objectives: Ii) increase agricultural production; (ii)
increase agricultural marketing; and (iii) do so in an environmentally sustainable manner. The
first objective to increase agriculture production in marshlands and hillside areas targeted for
development under the project was fully achieved and targets exceeded. There were no
shortcomings. PDO Indicator 1: “By the end of the project, production of rice in marshlands
rehabilitated or developed under RSSP 2 has increased by at least 100 percent relative to the
baseline at the aggregate project level.? The target was significantly exceeded (18,675 t vs.
11,194 t, by 167 percent). The main drivers of this significant increase in rice production were
the project’s marshland investments, which regulated and increased the water supply and
permitted two cropping seasons, and the project’s “software? support, including provision of
appropriate intensification technologies and improved inputs. Before getting RSSP support, these
beneficiaries were practicing subsistence farming at low levels of productivity.

55.     When the figures are analyzed by cooperative, it              clear that of the eight
cooperatives operating on reclaimed or rehabilitated marshland under RSSP 2, two—in Gisaya
and Muvumba V—reported no production until season 2011B. Three of the remaining six started
production only in season 2011A.15 The other three saw a lapse in production while marshlands
were rehabilitated, and they renewed production in seasons 2010B or 2011A. Nearly all of the
six cooperatives obtained significantly higher yields in season 2011B than in season 2011A,
which bodes well for the future. The Muvumba VIII scheme came on stream in 2012, adding
significant increases in rice production. All cooperatives have continued to increase their
production; some attaining yields of 7.2 t/ha (Table 3.1).

              Table 3.1: Average Yields (t/ha) of RSSP 2-supported Rice Cooperatives
                                                     Yield (t/ha)           Yield (t/ha)          Yield (t/ha)           Yield (t/ha)
     Marshlands              Cooperative
                                                    Season 2011A           Season 2011B          Season 2012A           Season 2012B
 Nyarubogo         Coop Nyarubogo                        5.1                    6.8                   6.0                    6.7
 Kinyegenyege      Cooproriz-Busoro                      4.0                    6.8                   6.0                    6.8
 Rugeramigozi      Kiabr                                 3.0                    3.0                   4.3                    4.3
 Kibaya Cyunuzi    Copriki Cyunuzi                       4.1                    7.5                   7.0                    7.0
 Kinnyogo I        Isabane                               3.7                    7.1                   7.2                    7.0
 Gwagitima         Copr Ntende                           4.8                    7.2                                          6.8
 Muvumba V         Coprimu                                                      6.6                     6.5                  6.5
 Gisaya            Cocurigi                                                     5.4                     7.0                  7.0
 Total/Average                                            4.3                   6.8                     6.5                  6.7
Source: MINAGRI SPIU M&E Department (2012)




15
    Rwanda’s Agricultural calendar has two main seasons: Season A, running from September to January and Season B, from February to June. In
irrigated areas they can also have short Season C, for vegetable growing from June to September.

                                                                    14
56.     Farmers who are not project beneficiaries and who operate in non-rehabilitated
marshlands have no access to irrigation, can plant only one season each year, and obtain average
rice yields from 2.7 to 3.3 t/ha. Before their marshlands were developed farmers’ average annual
income was RWF 347,164/ha, compared to RWF 3.6 million/ha (1.8 million/ha/season) on
marshland improved or developed under the project.16

57.    The target was appropriate, as the key driver of increasing incomes was increasing
production. Increasing production by 100 percent was an ambitious goal, given that production
increases from this type of investment normally range from 60 to 80 percent

58.     PDO Indicator 2: “By the end of the project, at least 50 percent of farmers in marshland
and hillside areas developed or rehabilitated by the RSSP 1 and RSSP 2 have adopted
sustainable marshland or hillside intensification technologies.?17 Farmers’ adoption of
sustainable technologies was measured directly in the Impact Assessment survey (2012). By the
end of the project, 98 percent of the beneficiary farmers had adopted at least two improved
practices (Table 3.2).18
                                  Table 3.2 Agricultural Practices and Techniques
 Percentage of households using…1                                                                                 Treatment group
                                                                                                               Marshland     Hillside
 Soil fertility management techniques                                                                            95.2         95.3
 Integrated pest management techniques                                                                           78.9         80.9
 Contour bunding                                                                                                 83.9         41.5
 For households cultivating land on hillsides in last 12 months
    Conservation tillage techniques                                                                                 29.7                36.3
    Either radical or progressive terracing                                                                         14.0                21.5
    Vegetative strips as an erosion control technique                                                               88.5                92.0
    Agroforestry practices as an erosion control technique                                                          80.6                78.2
Source: RSSP2 Impact Assessment Survey 2011. Notes: (1) It is important to note that most farmers sampled from RSSP marshland cooperatives
also cultivate plots in nearby hillsides, so the techniques discussed in Table 6.3 may be applied by marshland farmers either in their hillside plots
or in their marshland plots.

59.     The target was appropriate, given that increasing the uptake of new land intensification
technologies is a critical component of increasing production and yields. The 50 percent adoption
target was also a stretch, as the average range of expected adoption rates is usually between 30 to
50 percent with sustainable marshlands and hillside intensification technologies.

60.     The project succeeded in increasing marketing in marshland and hillside areas as
demonstrated by the increases in cooperative revenues. PDO Indicator 3: “By the end of the
project, at least 20 cooperatives with business plans and supported by RSSP 2 have increased
their revenues from sales by 50 percent relative to the baseline.? Cooperatives’ sales revenues
and revenues rose by more than 50 percent for 67 cooperatives (335 percent of target) and for 18
cooperatives it rose more than 1,000 percent. Cooperatives’ ability to grow and market many
crops over two seasons was a major factor in the increase in revenues. Cooperatives (14) that did
not increase revenues by 50 percent appear to have two main characteristics. First, 7 of those 14
cooperatives had just recently been formed and initiated strengthening activities. Based on the

16
   MINAGRI, SPIU, M&E Department (2012)
17
   Footnote 9 defines the “adoption of sustainable technology.?
18
   Oxford Policy Management (OPM) Assessment Report.(Feb. 2012), Volume 2, Table 6.3.

                                                                        15
experience of the other cooperatives, it is anticipated that within the next two seasons these
cooperatives will meet and exceed the target. Second, the other 7 of the 14 cooperatives had just
initiated production after the infrastructure was installed.19

61.     The second objective of the PDO, increase agriculture marketing in marshlands and
hillside areas targeted for development under the project, was fully achieved. All project
cooperatives, on average, marketed over 70 percent of their production as a result of the
cooperative collection system. This marketed share has increased steadily since 2008, when on
average households marketed 35 percent of their production. The project increased cooperative
capacity and marketing among 81 beneficiary cooperatives and farmer groups/associations
through the hiring of professional managers, greater ownership (creating transparent
management structures), and increased commitment (payment of cooperative membership fees).
These results occurred with the support of project-strengthened district and central government
service agencies (including RAB), which can now scale up and sustain the project’s benefits.
Increased marketing benefits for cooperatives are also demonstrated by increased productivity
(in both marshland and hillside areas) and more diversified production (as seen in new activities
like fish farming and livestock development), the increased value of production (through bulking
produce and linking with potential buyers), larger marketable surpluses (through greater and
more efficient input use), and higher incomes from cropping and diversified production (rising
by more than 300 percent since the end of RSSP 1).

62.                                                                                        in an
environmentally sustainable manner,




63.    RSSP 2 exceeded the three PDO indicator targets, and it exceeded the target values for
the six intermediate indicators aligned to the key outcomes (see Annex 2). Based on the
considerations reviewed here, the efficacy is rated high.

64.     RSSP 2 also substantially contributed to the long-term programmatic objective of the
RSSP APL series, which is to help GoR achieve its strategic goal of unlocking rural growth in
order to increase incomes and reduce poverty. The Oxford Policy Management (OPM)
quantitative household survey for the RSSP 2 impact evaluation shows achievements and
positive impacts in areas such as agricultural production (for instance, productivity increases




                                               16
exceeded 100 percent for rice, maize, and potatoes), food security (as expressed by increased
income expenditure), and innovations in processing and marketing (a number of cooperatives
invested in rice, maize and cassava mills and adopted better packaging and labeling of their
produce). Impact is also seen in household incomes (for example, annual income derived from
sales for RSSP marshlands and hillside households was RWF 232,000 (US$ 365), verses RWF
60,000 (US$ 94) among the comparison                       employment20
          7,316 workers for one year in arshland rehabilitation, 5,610 workers for six months
on average in terracing, 3,500 workers for six months on average for tree nursery preparation and
maintenance, and 760 workers for six months in economic infrastructure).

65.     Socioeconomic well-being improved among RSSP 2 beneficiary versus non-beneficiary
households. Beneficiary households are more likely to own key household durables (mobile
phones, beds, and bicycles, for instance), have better access to electricity, and pay for health
insurance Stakeholder consultations during the ICR mission confirmed that beneficiaries’
perceptions of improved well-being were consistent with the survey findings. The mass of
evidence supports the assertion that RSSP 2 was well aligned with and contributed to RSSP’s
long-term development objective as well as to national and sectoral strategies and their key
performance targets.21

66.    Other indicators of enhanced well-being of project beneficiaries, for which RSSP 2 has
contribute to, include better access to health insurance (5–10 percent) than non-beneficiaries and
ownership of durable goods (up to 57 percent of RSSP 2 beneficiaries owned a mobile phone
versus 39 percent of people in non-project communities; and up to 33 percent of RSSP 2
beneficiaries owned a bicycle versus 14.6 percent among other rural Rwandans). The stakeholder
consultations during the ICR mission confirmed beneficiary perceptions which are consistent
with these survey findings.22
3.3 Efficiency
67.




68.



  MINAGARI, SPIU, M&E Department (2012).
                                                                          progress toward overall RSSP
Program indicators.
  OPM Assessment Report (Feb. 2012), Volume 2.

                                                 17
69.      The main drivers of this significant increase in rice production were the project’s
marshland investments in irrigation and drainage infrastructure which induced the returns above
initial expectations. This infrastructure regulated and increased the water supply and permitted
two cropping seasons, and the project’s “software? support, including provision of appropriate
intensification technologies and improved inputs. Before getting RSSP support, these
beneficiaries were practicing subsistence farming at low levels of productivity. Additionally, the
project benefited from the nationwide Crop Intensification Program launched in 2008 which
provided access to improved inputs including fertilizer and seeds at bulk prices and on credit to
be repaid at the end of the season. This program came into existence during RSSP 2 and had
unanticipated positive knock-on effects.

70.     The financial and economic returns from the project’s investments and other activities
were very positive. The economic NPV of RWF 57 billion (US$ 90 million), with an ERR of 47
percent, compares favorably to the economic NPV estimated at appraisal of RWF 25 billion,
with an ERR of 34 percent. The financial NPV of RWF 65 billion (US$ 140 million) is higher
than the economic NPV because of adjustments for import duties and fertilizer subsidies.

71.     On average, economic ERRs for similar types of agriculture projects are typically around
12 percent, with highs up to 30 percent. RSSP 2’s ERR of 47 percent was significant owing to
the drivers of growth addressed previously. Additionally, the project was catalytic in facilitating
additional economic benefits to beneficiaries. The project-induced net benefits from fisheries and
cows amounted to RWF 1.5 billion and RWF 27 billion, respectively. When these benefits23 are
included in the analysis, the NPV is RWF 85 billion (US$ 135 million), mainly because of higher
yields and output prices for the hillside developments, with an ERR of 91 percent.

72.     Because the project exceeded its target with respect to the number of hectares developed
on marshlands and hillsides, there were no missed opportunities.              he project achieved
an impressive farmer technology adoption rate of 98 percent after four years, as monitored and
verified by the project’s & system and OPM Impact Assessment, and there is evidence that
these technology improvements will be sustained by farmers.

73.      Capacity-building activities for cooperatives enabled farmers to further increase their
yields, increase their ability to obtain higher output prices, reduce input use without losing yield
or price advantages, and increase their ability to purchase inputs at a lower cost. Although not


23
  These unforeseen benefits were not included in the appraisal analysis but are included here because of the updated information
that was available and results observed among project beneficiaries.

                                                              18
quantified in this analysis, it also enabled them to embark on profitable enterprises, as they
diversified and expanded their value chains.

74.    Total project returns are not very sensitive to changes in assumptions, but returns on the
marshland subcomponent could be erased with a 4 percent fall in the price/yield of paddy or a 14
percent increase in investment costs. The economic NPV on the rural infrastructure
subcomponent was RWF 2.4 billion and would have been zero if the paddy rice price fell by
more than 28 percent.

75.     Results of the analysis have several strategic implications. First, it appears that the
project somewhat underinvested in hillside rehabilitation vis-à-vis marshland development, given
the latter’s much higher investment costs. However, experience from the LWH project also
suggests that actual hillside investments using more comprehensive and sustainable technologies
are more costly than those in RSSP 2. At the same time, many farmers seem to have adopted the
improved practices after they had experienced or witnessed substantial increased incomes from
the marshland schemes. Finding the right balance in these types of investments will be important
in future scaling-up efforts. Second,

                                                                                         It will be
essential for RSSP 3 to capture reliable data on fishery and cow production and marketing. It is
also important to ensure that cooperatives and individual beneficiaries can pursue efficient
marketing channels for the products associated with these enterprises to reap the maximum
potential benefits. Finally, there is scope to scale up the benefits to non-beneficiary areas and
cooperatives, given the larger objective of reducing rural poverty.

76.     The project was successful at increasing production and productivity principally because
of key infrastructure investments which increased water supply; limited capacity and production
cooperatives at project start-up and a sharp focus on and strengthening of a limited number of
cooperatives that quickly matured in marketing production capacity and capacity to effectively
manage their cooperatives; most land was underutilized or unproductive and providing minimal
returns on investment previous to the project; provision of improved inputs and technologies;
significant financial benefits from second investments (cattle and fisheries); and the project built
upon strong and capable management capacity established in RSSP 1 at the ministerial and
project coordination level.

77.    Based on the above evidence, overall efficiency is rated Substantial.
3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating - Rating: Highly Satisfactory
78.     Overall outcome is rated Highly Satisfactory based on the high relevance of project
objectives and component design, the quality of implementation, and the likely sustainability of
outcomes. There were no shortcomings in the achievement of objectives. Targets were exceeded,
and efficiency was substantial.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts
79.    Poverty and Equity Impacts. RSSP 2 contributed to poverty reduction through
increased crop productivity, farm enterprise diversification, enhanced and private sector-driven

                                                19
marketing, and increased food security. All of these effects contributed directly to significant
increases in household incomes (benefiting about 81,629 households, with a range of incremental
benefits), and enhanced indicators of well-being. The quantitative household survey (of about
1,300 households and a comparator group) showed expanded access to social services and
improved living conditions for beneficiaries, as evidenced by rising incomes, increased capacity
to pay for school fees and health insurance, renovated houses, and other indicators of enhanced
well-being.24 In addition, whereas 66 percent of rural households were below the poverty line for
Rwanda, by the end of 2011 it is estimated that 39.3 percent of RSSP 2 beneficiary households
were below the poverty line. Using data from the EICV3 household survey, it is estimated that
about 46 percent of non-beneficiary households are below the poverty line, showing that a
significant degree of poverty reduction can be attributed to RSSP 2 interventions.25

        RSSP 2 also promoted actions that contributed to equitable benefits, including: (i) giving
preference to landless farmers when selecting prospective beneficiaries for irrigated plots in
marshland schemes; (ii) limiting plots to an average of 0.2 ha per farmer (except for plots that
form part of the Muvumba VIII marshland scheme, which had sufficient water and land to
benefit a larger area, and thereby further enhance the poverty impact); (iii) encouraging
beneficiary cooperatives to reduce barriers to membership (for example, by reducing and
deferring payment of membership fees); (iv) promoting socioeconomic and gender diversity on
the various project-induced, community-based committees and groups (including lead farmers,
cooperative officers, WUA members); (v) promoting demonstration effects of the incremental
benefits of adopting enhanced technologies for hillside plots for nearby non-beneficiary farmers
 spillover benefits ; and vii using RSSP 3’s & system to monitor cooperative participation
key performance indicators and beneficiary income increases. No evidence of “elite capture? of
project benefits was found by the OPM study and the ICR mission stakeholder consultations.

81.     Gender Balance. RSSP 2 generated positive gender benefits in several ways. It promoted
gender-balanced access to project benefits (such as infrastructure investments and access to
training) and institutions (cooperative officers and members of resource, WUA, and
accountability committees). The RSSP 2 monitoring system included several gender-specific
indicators to track and ensure gender balance. Table 3.3 provides the numbers of direct
beneficiaries by project component and subcomponent, showing a beneficiary allocation pattern
of about 40–60 percent (women to men beneficiaries, respectively) for most subcomponents.
                         Table 3.3: Beneficiaries by Subcomponent and Gender
             RSSP 2 Subcomponent                           Women                Men               Total           Women (%)
 Marshland rehabilitation and development                  13,839              20,764             34,603             40
 Hillside rehabilitation and development                   13,839              20,764             34,603             40
 Strengthening farmer organizations and coops              35,409              46,220             81,629             43
 Improving production technologies                         35,409              46,220             81,629             43
 Investments for agribusiness                               3,688               5,016              8,704             43
 Knowledge generation and dissemination                    35,409              46,220             81,629             43
Source: MINAGRI SPIU M&E System (2012).

24
   For further details, see Annex 5 and OP ’s olume 2 of the Assessment Report Feb. 2012 . The comparator group is based
on the results of the National Integrated Household Living Conditions Survey, known as the EICV3.
25
   The baseline value for the poverty indicator is taken from the impact assessment of RSSP 1. The equivalent figure for 2010/11
from EICV3 data is 39.3 percent. The 45 percent figure for non-beneficiary households below the poverty line is also taken from
the 2010/11 EICV3 survey data. In the event that more recent poverty/income data become available, it is likely that the poverty
reduction differential will be greater.

                                                              20
82.     Institutional Change and Strengthening. RSSP 2 provided substantial capacity
development for participating cooperatives and WUAs and strengthened the institutions and
personnel who provide support services to them (such as agronomists, irrigation engineers,
cooperative development officers, and field-based RAB services that provide a continuous flow
of agricultural technologies). The project expanded the farmer clientele for local banks, which
now offer a greater range of financing services.

83.     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts. The extent and scope of the incremental
production and marketing benefits of livestock and fisheries, the emerging multiplier effects of
increased incomes and other project benefits, and higher fiscal revenues in the surrounding local
areas were unplanned benefits. Anecdotal evidence, including highly positive feedback from
numerous district officials, seems to suggest that these multiplier effects could be sizeable over
time and are worth monitoring and evaluating during RSSP 3. Almost all beneficiaries were able
to pay their fees for the Mutuelle de Santé (local health insurance scheme), and many achieved
higher incomes by obtaining other sources of income (motorcycles to use as taxis, for example).
Some even acquired household electricity connections (the Mukunguri Cooperative financed an
11-kilometer electrical line to their marshland).
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and Stakeholder Workshops/Consultations
       The RSSP 2 ICR exercise benefited from several beneficiary and stakeholder
consultations, which generated specific feedback from a wide range of project participants. T




                                                                           he ICR joint mission
included consultations with a range of stakeholders (about 500), covering farmers/beneficiaries,
local government officials/agency representatives, and local service providers, spread over 14
districts and 16 beneficiary cooperatives. Focus group discussions were conducted to determine
whether participants would validate the findings from the OPM beneficiary assessment. The
responses confirmed and deepened the findings from the OPM assessment study.28
4: Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome - Rating: Moderate
85.     The PAD for RSSP 2 provided a comprehensive risk assessment to development
outcomes and the sustainability of project achievements in terms of country/sectoral factors and
RSSP 2-specific risks. Project-specific risks consisted of inter-related technical and design
issues, implementation and institutional issues, financial management and accountability of the

26
   To cite a few telling examples: 12 percent of project beneficiaries use electricity compared to 2.8 percent in the comparator
group; 74 percent of project beneficiaries have savings accounts compared to 34 percent in the comparator group; 79 percent of
beneficiaries have paid up their health insurance premiums against 69 percent of the comparator group; and 48 percent of
beneficiaries own livestock compared to 35 percent for the comparator group.
27
   See Annex 6 for summary findings taken from the OPM impact study and for details on the framework that guided the
discussions and a summary of the feedback from focus group discussions (sections b and c) from the ICR field visit, including
valuable insights on lessons learned under RSSP 2.
28
   Annex 6.

                                                              21
PSCU, procurement, and social and environmental impacts. In retrospect, however, the PAD
could have explicitly assessed three important risks related to important stakeholders that are
integral to sustaining project benefits. The first risk is related to individual beneficiaries’ and
households’ capacity to continue activities supported by the project in a sustainable and
organized manner. The second risk is related to cooperatives’ and WUAs’ commitment to the
continued strengthening and accountability of marshland schemes. The third is related to
government’s explicit commitment at the central and district levels to continue providing
effective services to cooperatives.

86.     The risk to development outcome is evaluated as moderate, for several reasons.
Agriculture is primarily a private enterprise, so individual beneficiaries and their households
need to continue to invest in their land, to build upon the project experiences, and to willingly
continue to operate in cooperatives or other farmer organizations that allow them to gain
economies of scale in accessing inputs and markets. Agriculture also remains a relatively
complex and risky sector, subject to many exogenous shocks, such as climate change and
extreme weather events, input and produce price shocks, and market and policy failures
(including tariff and non-tariff barriers).

87.     The government has consistently exhibited strong ownership at the central and local
levels throughout implementation. It is ensuring a sound macro and sectoral policy environment,
and it has enhanced support services to adopt demand- and market-driven approaches. The
government and MINAGRI continue to pursue the decentralization strategy and to support
agricultural services through institutional reforms, especially of RAB. MINAGRI is also
proceeding to strengthen coordination among development partners through complementary
programs and consistent, harmonized approaches to marshland rehabilitation and hillside
development. Additional evidence is the strong content and implementation of PSTA 2, followed
by the emerging sound formulation of EDPRS 2 and PSTA 3, which give greater attention to
private sector development strategies and partnerships in the rural sector.

88.




5. Assessment of Bank and Government of Rwanda Performance
5.1      Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry - Rating: Satisfactory


29
  Rwanda ranks 50 in Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index for 2012—a significant improvement from its
ranking in 2007 (111).

                                                          22
89.     The Bank’s performance in uality at entry of RSSP 2 was                     The Bank
worked closely with GoR to design a sound project. A timely PHRD grant funded strategic
studies to underpin the project’s design building on well-identified lessons from RSSP 1. The
project design was aligned with DPRS PSTA 1 and 2 and now 3 and the Bank’s CAS. The
Bank team had a good mix of skills. The team was experienced, largely field-based, and did not
change during design and implementation. The Bank provided valuable input for defining the
PDO supported by a sound results framework with “S ART? performance indicators. 30 The
project strategically focused on two major, complementary components. It used an innovative
approach to design marshland irrigation schemes and develop capacity in cooperatives. RSSP’s
strict compliance with economic criteria for each scheme helped to ensure that they were
economically viable. The government expressed a preference for the Bank to finance the
schemes because it wanted the Bank to utilize and continue to strengthen GoR’s procurement
capacities. Other donor and ministry funds financed operations in the smaller marshland and
hillside areas.
(b) Quality of Supervision - Rating: Highly Satisfactory
90.     The Bank’s performance in supporting implementation was highly satisfactory. The task
team was primarily field-based. It was technically strong, experienced, and received constructive
management support (in-country and from headquarters). The team’s timely, effective, and
responsive advice was instrumental for resolving issues that arose during implementation, such
as the financing gap. Additional examples of its support include: regular, comprehensive
“implementation support missions? that had a skills mix that was highly valued by GoR, as
evidenced by Government’s timely implementation of mission recommendations; timely
resolution of complex contractor issues, without compromising the project’s and Bank’s
fiduciary requirements; helping SPIU/MINAGRI build capacity to comply with multiple
safeguard requirements; and helping to achieve a functional M&E system. Such contributions
enabled the Bank task team to establish strong, trustworthy, and effective working relationships
with the central and district government and other key stakeholders. Those relationships helped
the team to maintain a consistent focus on achieving/exceeding the project’s development
outcomes and triggers for RSSP 3. The team was also proactive in encouraging GoR to prepare
and implement a sound sustainability strategy.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance - Rating: Satisfactory
91.     The Bank’s performance was adequate to the tasks and facilitated the success of the
project.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance - Rating: Highly Satisfactory
        Government (central and local levels) merits a highly satisfactory rating because it
consistently demonstrated a high level of commitment to and ownership of the RSSP program
and Phase 2 design and implementation, as reflected by: s


30
 As previously mentioned, the “marketing objective? and cooperative performance indicators could have been underpinned by
more sharply defined performance measures to determine the extent to which these two key aspects were met.

                                                          23
(b) Implementing Agency Performance (PSCU/SPIU) - Rating: Highly Satisfactory
93.      The PSCU/SPIU had demonstrated exceptional performance. The Project Coordinator
and all project staff were highly committed to the project’s successful uality sustainable and
timely implementation, as demonstrated by the SPIU’s timely sound resolution of
implementation issues, which enabled project objectives and targets to be met one year ahead of
the formal closing date.31 This commitment was backed by a sound mix and number of skills and
a strong outcome orientation, as reflected in how the project team focused on and managed the
RSSP 2 results framework and related performance measures (using the M&E system as an
effective tool). The SPIU demonstrated timely, quality compliance with all project agreements
and mission action plans. Fiduciary arrangements and processes were highly effective, including
implementation of the procurement plan and performance in preparing consistently unqualified
project audit reports. The SPIU maintained productive partnerships with the PAC (which became
the inter-ministerial steering committee), beneficiary cooperatives, district officials, and other
implementation partners and stakeholders. All of these actors worked well to facilitate the
achievement of the project’s strategic objectives and the triggers for Phase 3. The timely
initiative to formulate and implement the sustainability strategy was also a valuable contribution.
Finally, in hosting numerous delegations from developing countries,32 the SPIU played a key
role in scaling up successful design and implementation, not only nationally but with other
African countries, and demonstrating a desire to be innovative and to document results.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance - Rating: Highly Satisfactory
94.     The Borrower’s performance was highly adequate in the design and implementation
phase in delivering on the RSSP series/program objectives and the PDOs/indicators for RSSP 2,
exceeding standard practices. As noted, the project met its objectives and performance indicators
12 months ahead of schedule. The transition to RSSP 3 was seamless and includes a sound
sustainability strategy.
6. Lessons Learned


31
  See paragraph 26 on physical infrastructure achievements.
32
  Four teams visited: two from Uganda; one from Burundi, and one from Kenya. Under RSSP 3, other country delegations
continue to visit, reflecting positively on the RSSP 2 experience/results.

                                                        24
95.   RSSP 2 generated valuable lessons applicable to RSSP 3 and other agricultural projects
in Rwanda and beyond. Seven key lessons flow from the RSSP 2 experience.

96.      The strong, demonstrated commitment of Government at various levels, and
effective mechanisms to sustain that commitment, are vital for success and essential to
embark on a scaling up phase. Government and the sector had a clear strategic vision and
objectives: Improve national food security and reduce dependence on imports of basic food
crops in an efficient manner. Those strategic aims, enshrined in the PSTA series and the national
medium- and long-term vision, drove the emphasis on intensification and irrigation under RSSP
2 and were instrumental for the project’s achievements. Throughout RSSP 2, Government
provided strategic guidance and enacted laws that continue to sustain advances under RSSP 2.
Effective mechanisms to sustain commitment to the project included the establishment and
strengthening of the PAC; alignment with national, decentralization, district, and sectoral
policies, strategies and performance indicators; and the sound formulation and use of a medium-
term expenditure framework and M&E system to ensure achievement of key performance
targets.

97.     Close implementation support by the Bank and sector was invaluable for resolving
implementation challenges. A full-time Bank international staff member in the field and full-
time local staff dedicated to supporting implementation gave the client continuous access to the
Bank, and issues were resolved rapidly and responsively. Special support missions were arranged
when required (for example, for engineers to handle contract delays). Implementation support
missions for RSSP 2 were held every six months with a full complement of skills on both teams,
which allowed close attention to detail and better delivery of results. Also, proactive leadership
on resettlement by MINAGRI was the key to smooth implementation and a high level of
satisfaction among those affected by resettlement. The resettlement model developed in RSSP 2
has been adopted by other projects, programs, and development partners in the agricultural
sector. Under RSSP 2, GoR financed all resettlement costs. It insisted on building the capacity to
implement resettlement within the PIU and requested Bank support for doing so. The Bank
provided extensive training, close implementation support, and supervision during the process.

98.      The marshland investment model developed in RSSP offers a basic framework for
replication throughout Rwanda. The model has been the basis for new policies and institutions
throughout the sector. Before Rwanda initiated the RSSP program, there was little to no
irrigation in the country. The model developed under RSSP has become the basis for similar
work by other development partners (IFAD, AfDB) and is laying the foundation for national
irrigation roll-out and further agricultural intensification.

99.     Approaches that enhance farmers’ business skills, promote value chains, and link
farmers to financial institutions provide inclusive, sustainable benefits. It is vital to
strengthen farmers’ business skills and knowledge through relevant and practical approaches,
such as participatory and market-responsive value chain approaches, farmer-based extension, and
training for large numbers of lead farmers. Additionally, linking farmer groups and cooperatives
to savings and financial institutions, together with supporting mechanisms such as risk reduction,
can ensure the sustainability of project investments. By introducing farmers to local banking as a


                                               25
way to enhance their productivity and farm marketing strategies, the project initiated a mutually
beneficial relationship between farmers and the banking system.

100. RSSP 2 demonstrates the wisdom of continuity in the financing mechanism and
implementation teams. A programmatic approach (financing mechanism) is advantageous to
consolidate, scale up, and sustain project benefits from a previous phase, while ensuring clear
criteria and initiatives for new interventions. GoR and the Bank are working closely to maximize
the full benefits of the APL instrument (as seen with the early financing of technical design
studies within and between phases, and the sustainability strategy for RSSP 2). These efforts are
significantly amplified by maintaining stability in the counterpart implementation team. The
Minister and Permanent Secretary were involved in the sector from RSSP 1. The SPIU had
turnover of less than 10 percent during RSSP 2, and 90 percent of the Bank implementation
support team was maintained through implementation.

101. WUAs should be established and strengthened at the start of irrigation works . As
mentioned previously (paragraph 42), this approach instills ownership and understanding of the
irrigation schemes—of how they function and of the roles and responsibilities of all water users.
The approach also reinforces the need to operate and maintain the infrastructure (a public good)
properly and to separate that responsibility from the cooperative, which essentially engages in
private productive and entrepreneurial activities.

102. Strengthen hillside cooperatives associated with marshland rehabilitation and
development. Instead of working with multiple hillside cooperatives spread throughout the
country, RSSP 3 is adopting a more targeted and approach of establishing and strengthening
cooperatives on the hillsides that surround RSSP 3 marshlands. In addition, RSSP 3 is
strengthening a few of the weaker and later entry cooperatives inherited from RSSP 2.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by the Government of Rwanda, SPIU, and Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agency
103. Annex 7 provides a transcription of the letter from the Minister of MINAGRI stating
agreement with the findings and ratings of the ICR and expressing appreciation for the support
rendered to MINAGRI and the Rwandan people through the project. The letter states that RSSP
2 had a significant impact on farmers’ lives, which can be witnessed by visiting them and
hearing their stories. RSSP 2 laid the foundation for RSSP 3, which will lead to more poverty
reduction and higher incomes. Annex 7 also summarizes Government’s ICR of November 2012.
(b) Cofinanciers
104.   Not applicable.
(c) Other Partners and stakeholders
105. Wide distribution of the ICR is planned within the donor community in Rwanda to share
lessons learned and strengthen further collaboration in the sector.




                                               26
                         Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

                      Table 1: PAD vs. Actual RSSP 2 Costs (US$)

                                                   PAD       Actual Costs   Actual as %
Component                                       Estimate                      of PAD
1) Marshlands and Hillsides Rehabilitation     26,513,000    27,122,456        102
and Development
  a) Marshlands Schemes                        22,249,200    22,169,431       99.6
  b) Hillsides Development                      2,963,800     4,194,076        142
  c) Environment and Social Safeguard           1,300,000       758,949         58
  Contingencies
2) Strengthening Commodity Chains               5,536,000     5,329,161         96
  a) Strengthening Farmer Organizations and     3,129,000     3,083,587         98
  Cooperatives
  b) Improving Production Technologies            890,000       840,280         94
  c) Rural Investments for Economic             1,000,000     1,188,949        118
  Infrastructure
  d) Knowledge Generation and Dissemination       517,000       216,345         42
3) Project Management/Support and               6,283,900     6,603,072        105
Coordination
   Project Preparation Fund                       584,200       233,082         40
   Total Baseline Cost                         38,917,100                      NA
   Physical Contingencies                          64,100                      NA
   Price Contingencies                             10,300                      NA
Total Project Costs                            38,991,500    39,287,771      100.5


                              Table 2: RSSP 2 Financing

                         Appraisal Estimate         Actual Estimate         Percentage of
Source of Funds
                           (US$ millions)            (US$ millions)           Appraisal
Borrower                        2.0                       4.5                  225%
IDA                            35.0                      32.8                   94%
Beneficiaries                  1.99                       2.0                  100%
Total Financing               38.99                      39.3                100.8%




                                          27
 Annex 2: Main Outputs by Component and Emerging Evidence of Outcomes and Impact


Component 1: Marshlands and Hillsides Rehabilitation and Development

1.     This component consists of two subcomponents, marshlands rehabilitation and
development and sustainable development of hillsides. This component’s objective was to
expand irrigated area in cultivated marshlands and increase sustainable land management on
nearby hillsides to accelerate agricultural intensification.

Subcomponent 1.1: Marshlands rehabilitation and development (US$ 22.2 million planned vs.
US$ 22.2 million actual)

2.        ost of the project’s activities were organized around this subcomponent which focused
on rehabilitating and developing gravity irrigation schemes in selected marshlands to ensure
additional reliable irrigation on 3,300 ha. The project covered costs associated with developing
infrastructure, mobilizing stakeholders and strengthening their capacity, establishing WUAs,
conducting participatory       & to build farmers’ capacity to monitor and improve the
performance of irrigation schemes, and establishing a national association of irrigation
professionals. The two outcome indicators associated with this subcomponent were: (i) at least
3,300 additional ha of irrigated marshlands developed or rehabilitated; and (ii) at least 75 percent
of farmers in irrigated marshlands rehabilitated or developed by the project pay water charges
through WUAs.

3.     Both indicators were surpassed. The project developed 2,769 new ha of irrigated
marshland and rehabilitated another 555 ha for a total of 3,324 ha, all of which is used to produce
rice. The associated infrastructure (dams) is used for other economic activities such as fish
farming. Ninety five percent of farmers in the irrigated marshlands pay for water through WUAs
compared to the target of seventy-five percent that was set at appraisal. Three other significant
outputs are ascribed to this subcomponent. First, MINAGRI engineers have improved their
capacity to rehabilitate and develop marshlands. Second, a national legal framework was
developed for WUAs. Finally, the construction of irrigation infrastructure created temporary
employment for laborers (more than US$ 10 million went to labor costs).

Subcomponent 1.2: Sustainable development of hillsides (US$ 2.96 million planned vs. US$
4,194.1 million actual)

4.       This subcomponent provided resources to improve the productivity of farming systems
on hillsides adjacent to the marshlands where irrigation schemes were developed. Among other
activities, the project financed the promotion of cost-effective soil and water conservation
technologies and sustainable cropping practices for hillsides. The outcome indicator for this
subcomponent was that at least 9,900 additional ha of hillsides would be sustainably developed.

5.      The project implemented cost-effective soil and water conservation technologies
(including mechanical and vegetative measures) on 10,096 ha compared to the target of 9,900 ha.
Farmers planted more than 11 million agroforestry trees (with an estimated survival rate

                                                28
exceeding 70 percent) and adopted sustainable hillside intensification technologies, especially
those related to soil fertility management and IPM. These investments contributed substantially
to increasing yields of basic food crops (for example, maize yields rose by 337 percent and bean
yields by 87 percent). The soil and water conservation techniques have helped to control soil
erosion, while the new trees will provide a range of benefits, including livestock fodder and
environmental services.

Component 2: Strengthening Commodity Chains (US$ 5.6 million planned vs. US$ 5.3
million actual)

6.      This component had 4 subcomponents, strengthening farmer organizations and
cooperatives, improving production technologies, rural investments for economic infrastructure
and knowledge generation and dissemination. The overall objective of Component 2 is to
strengthen commodity chains by supporting the commercialization of smallholder agriculture in
targeted marshlands and hillsides. The component focused on achieving this goal by promoting
value addition and by building capacity in cooperatives, particularly business skills. The
indicators reflect this orientation: development of business plans, marketing of certified seed, and
provision of rural infrastructure to the satisfaction of users.

Subcomponent 2.1: Strengthening farmer organizations and cooperatives (US$ 3.2 million
planned vs. US$ 3.1 million actual)

7.     This subcomponent covered: (i) strengthening farmer organizations and cooperatives to
improve their governance mechanisms and instill sound business practices; (ii) supporting
capacity-building activities; (iii) providing training, technical assistance, and advisory services to
build basic operating capacity in all farmer organizations and cooperatives with which it
engages; and (iv) providing training, technical assistance, and advisory services to improve
business planning and management capacity in a selected number of more commercially oriented
cooperatives. The performance indictor for this subcomponent is the number of cooperatives
supported by the project that have quality business plans under implementation.

8.     Local service providers assisted 81 of 83 cooperatives supported by the project to
develop business plans. A study of 17 randomly selected business plans by the impact
assessment team found that the average rating was very good, although market analysis was a
common weakness of the plans. The study also found that in some cases the cooperative
members receiving the business plan training still considered it very complex and difficult, and
suggested that further follow-up would be required.

9.




                                                 29
Subcomponent 2.2: Improving production technologies (US$ 0.89 million planned vs. US$
0.840 million actual)

10.     To improve production and productivity of farming systems in marshlands and hillsides,
the project provided support to: (i) train producers; (ii) provide technical advisory services; (iii)
establish demonstration plots to disseminate best practices for sustainable soil and water
management; (iv) catalyze the increased use of improved inputs (seed and fertilizer) through
innovative arrangements; and (v) encourage the adoption of IPM practices.

       Information




Marketed share

12.    “ arketed share? is the share of production collected by cooperatives from members and
sold in the market. All project cooperatives, on average, market over 70 percent of their
production—a share that has increased steadily since 2008. This increase is significant, because
prior to RSSP 2, the large majority of farmers did not sell their produce through their
cooperatives. The cooperative collection system has been a key factor in strengthening the
cooperatives. Several aspects are worth noting:

      Access to inputs. Cooperatives are able to buy all the necessary fertilizer and seed,
       knowing that farmers will be able to repay the cost of the inputs at the end of the crop
       season. The cooperatives deduct the money owed for inputs from the payments made to
       farmers after produce is sold. This practice enables farmers to get sufficient fertilizer on
       time (86 percent of RSSP 2 beneficiary farmers use fertilizer, compared to the national
       average of 32 percent).
      Operating costs. Cooperatives also use the collection system to cover their operating
       costs (including staff salaries and costs of transporting produce). The cooperatives retain
       an amount that can be as high as RWF 25 per kilogram sold. The amount is decided by
       the General Assembly of each cooperative.
      Access to financial services. The collection system expanded farmers’ access to the
       financial sector. Farmers are required to open bank accounts to receive payments from
       the cooperatives. This practice has positively influenced the savings culture among
       farmers. According to the OPM impact assessment (2012), more than 80 percent of
       beneficiary farmers possess a savings account (versus a negligible number prior to the
       project). The project also greatly expanded access to credit for many farmers (for
       example, 48 percent of beneficiary farmers could finance the purchase of cows).




                                                 30
Subcomponent 2.3: Rural investments for economic infrastructure (US$1.0 million planned
vs. US$ 1.2 million actual)

13.     The main goal of this subcomponent was to support productive rural investments by
community-based organizations and occasionally by districts. Activities under this
subcomponent were funded through Local Development Funds (LDFs). In response to the
demands and priorities from the community, LDFs provided funding to farmer organizations,
cooperatives, NGOs, and occasionally districts for strategic investments in public goods and
services (for example, community grain drying and storage facilities, rural roads) specifically
linked to other key project areas. The performance indicator for this subcomponent measures the
percentage of rural infrastructure projects that were funded through the LDFs and with which the
majority of users were satisfied one year after the project’s completion.

14.      RSSP 2 provided 30 drying bays for rice production marshlands, 5 storage centers for
rice, 8 storage centers for other commodities, and 2 collection centers for vegetables. The user
satisfaction survey revealed that more than 63 percent of users were very satisfied with the
facilities provided and more than 98 percent were either very or quite satisfied. Although RSSP 2
delivered the economic infrastructure planned under the project, the demand for post-harvest
infrastructure, including drying bays and storage centers for rice, remained high in the project
area, and few alternatives existed to meet that demand. Options for raising additional resources
for post-harvest infrastructure were considered, such as: (i) modifying the design to reduce
overall construction costs; (ii) increasing the counterpart contribution; and (iii) helping
cooperatives access credit to fund construction costs, for example through the Second Rural
Investment Facility (RIF 2), which is ideally suited for that purpose. The project strategy is to
encourage cooperatives to expand rural infrastructure through loans, because the project had
helped to increase access to finance.

15.     The project was designed to provide technical support for additional infrastructure
complementing the project investment and funded by MINAGRI. Such infrastructure included
the construction of storage facilities and rice mills. MINAGRI invested in three rice mills, one
seed plant and two silo plants which proved critical for ensuring rice farmers’ access to
markets. Without the MINAGRI investment, farmers would not have benefited from higher rice
prices and an assured market.

Subcomponent 2.4: Knowledge generation and dissemination (US$ 0.517 million planned vs.
US$ 0.216 million actual)

16.     This subcomponent supported diagnostic studies, market surveys, and problem-focused
applied research to generate and disseminate science-based knowledge and information that
would inform decisions on key project issues. Results of a diagnostic study, although somewhat
delayed, enabled cooperatives to identify training needs and priorities for the project. A market
survey that generated empirical knowledge on the performance of Rwanda’s rice commodity
chain was used to design more efficient, profitable rice marketing approaches for all actors along
the commodity chain. For example, one key recommendation was to improve milling to improve
rice quality at a low cost. In response, the Government of Rwanda developed and adopted a new
Rwandan Rice Policy to regulate rice milling. To achieve the government’s objective of

                                               31
producing quality domestic milled rice capable of competing with imported rice, the policy
encourages the use of modern mills and prohibits small rice hullers and mills that produce more
than 15 percent broken rice or have no capacity for grading. Modern rice mills have been
installed in 11 areas, and 7 more mills are planned.

Safeguards

17.     Compliance with environmental safeguards was rated satisfactory throughout the life of
RSSP 2. The rating for social safeguards was also satisfactory throughout the project, with two
exceptions. The regular Bank implementation support missions closely monitored the
environmental and social aspects of the project. The project benefitted from the strong and
committed team members, who worked closely with the project-affected people to achieve full
compliance with the national and World Bank requirements for environmental and social due
diligence.

18.     Compliance with social safeguards experienced some initial challenges. Social safeguards
were relatively new for RSSP; PSCU responsibilities for project resettlement activities were
assigned late; and there was high turnover among district authorities. These factors resulted only
in minor delays, however, because the PSCU team demonstrated strong capacity to manage the
situation well and ensure timely decisions in consultation with district authorities. The main
concern was to resettle and compensate people affected by the rehabilitation of marshlands; by
the MTR (October 2010), resettlement had proceeded smoothly.

19.    Although the project had no significant environmental concerns, it ultimately improved
comprehensive watershed management in the target areas. Subproject-specific studies indicate
that RSSP 2 helped to minimize erosion on hills and sedimentation; increase plantings of native
tree species to control erosion in catchment areas; and apply IPM practices in the target
marshlands. At one of the project sites, Muvumba VIII, the project restored and protected a
degraded gallery forest (216 ha) using the native endangered tree species Acacia kirkii.

20.     At preparation, the project correctly identified the environmental and social safeguard
policies that RSSP 2 would trigger, based on the lessons learned in RSSP 1: OP/BP 4.01
(Environmental Assessment), OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), and
OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement). OP 7.50 (Projects in International Waterways) was also
triggered, so the Bank, at the request of the Government of Rwanda, prepared and sent riparian
notifications to the countries in the Nile and Lake Tanganyika Basins on May 5, 2008.

21.    The project prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF),
because the project sites were not known at preparation. The ESMF contained an environmental
and social screening tool for investments that was integrated into the review of the funding
requests emanating from communities, District Government officials, and other project
beneficiaries. The ESMF covered potential impacts on Natural Habitats, which was also reflected
in the subproject-specific assessments. As part of the subproject selection, the RSSP 2 team
prepared a comprehensive Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) for 13 potential
target marshlands in January 2008. Individual ESIAs were prepared for Muvumba V and VIII
Marshlands. The Bank reviewed those assessments and found them to be satisfactory and of high

                                               32
quality. The ESMF and these two ESIAs were disclosed in country and on the World Bank
InfoShop.

22.     To mitigate the potential environmental impact of increased pesticide use, and in
compliance with the triggered pest management policy, the RSSP 2 team prepared a Pest
Management Plan (PMP), disclosed in January 2008. The PMP focused on IPM practices for the
target crops (maize, rice, potatoes, cassava, and tomatoes).

23.     RSSP 2 complied with the Bank’s riparian guidelines which involved informing and
getting concurrence (on a no objection basis) from six affected countries, confirming that water
diverted from several rivers did not cause adverse effects to those countries). The notifications
were sent on May 5, 2008 and no unfavorable response was received from any of the notified
riparian states, which was reflected in project documentation on June 6, 2008.

24.     A Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), prepared by the RSSP 2 team and disclosed in
January 2008, established guidelines for preparing Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for any
subproject that involved resettlement or loss of access to resources for project-affected people.
The ICR mission recognizes the challenges in implementing resettlement activities and
commends the project for surpassing the OP 4.12 re uirements. Despite Rwanda’s very hi gh
population density, the districts provided land for land to farmers who needed to be resettled
from government-owned marshlands. The project team remained closely involved with
beneficiaries throughout implementation, not only ensuring timely compensation but helping to
open bank accounts for project-affected people, providing training in crop intensification, and
(most important) setting up and utilizing a successful grievance redress mechanism. Farmers
direct grievances to the project’s District staff who notify safeguards staff in the SPIU.
Safeguards specialists then address the grievances at the site, working with the farmers to resolve
any issues.

25.    The project prepared and implemented 13 RAPs: Nyarubogo dam, Nyarubogo irrigation
channel, Ntende-Rwagitima irrigation channel, Ntende dam, Kiliba dam, Rugeramigozi dam,
Kinyegenyege marshland, Gisaya, Kibaya, Kinnyogo, Muvumba V, Muvumba VIII dam, and
Muvumba VIII channels. Prior to project completion, the team developed a Resettlement
Completion Report that the Bank team found to be of good quality. The RAPs and the
Completion Report were diligently disclosed on the RSSP website and in the World Bank
InfoShop.

Procurement

26.     Given the importance of procurement for achieving project objectives, this section
highlights an assessment of the project’s procurement implementation performance. Prior to
project start-up, the PSCU procurement team had prepared a procurement plan and procurement
manual (including a manual for the community-based works), which the Bank deemed
satisfactory. This achievement reflected the continuity and cumulative experience gained during
RSSP 1, which had not developed these important procurement implementation tools sufficiently
early and had experienced significant procurement problems. During RSSP 2, the PSCU awarded
100 contracts, which were executed in accordance with agreed procurement methods and a
generally sound procurement plan prepared prior to launching the project (and updated
                                                33
periodically as needed). They included 27 works contracts, 18 goods contracts, and 55
consultancy contracts. No instances of misprocurement occurred. Some of the technical studies
and contracts had been carried out during the latter phases of RSSP 1, which enabled RSSP 2 to
implement those contracts during the initial RSSP 2 period and contributed to early completion
of works.

27.     The project’s overall positive performance for procurement reflects positive factors
various obstacles, and lessons. Various procurement risks were well identified at appraisal,
together with appropriate mitigation measures, including: sound procurement arrangements by a
procurement unit in the PSCU; posting of procurement staff in central, provincial, and district
offices; and provisions for procurement training at various levels and times.

28.     Positive factors and obstacles. Implementation benefited from adequate procurement
staff levels and suitable procurement training. The central procurement team was quite
experienced with World Bank and national procurement procedures, because they had handled
procurement under RSSP 1 (another benefit of continuity through an APL). Procurement staff
improved their procurement planning tools by periodically updating procurement plans (an
improvement over the RSSP 1 experience), using PROCYS when it was introduced in 2008, and
coaching other project procurement staff to use this tool. In contrast, at the district level,
procurement capacity was generally limited, and the procurement staff was not familiar with
national and World Bank procedures. Accordingly, the PSCU procurement team (from
headquarters and the provinces)33 carried out initial orientation sessions as well as periodic
procurement workshops to provide district project procurement staff and cooperative members
(from the newly established procurement committee) with the tools to conduct transparent, sound
procurement.

29.    A review of contracts in the project procurement plan showed two bid and two contract
execution delays during implementation. Contract execution under RSSP 2 was assessed for the
ICR exercise. Delays were occasioned mainly by the following factors, primarily in the
marshland schemes:
     A few technical designs required adjustment during implementation. They were adjusted
       expeditiously, with Bank concurrence where needed.
     Local contractors had low technical and financial capacity and insufficient and
       inappropriate equipment, especially for dam and radical terracing works for hillside
       development.
     Replacement personnel were not always as qualified as those included in the original bids
       submitted by contractors.
     Some contracts were too big for local firms, given their capacity, but too small to attract
       international firms.
     Procurement staff had very limited involvement in managing contracts, especially in
       monitoring compliance with provisions in procurement contracts. These issues received

33
   The initial project plan (as reflected in the PAD) was to recruit a procurement assistant for each of the four provinces, totaling
four staff. However, to reduce costs the Project Management decided to recruit only two for the four provinces because this
number and working arrangements were considered to be adequate, to which the Bank agreed. While the work load was high for
these two provincial procurement staff, they received adequate support from central level, and were able to handle the work load
efficiently in support of achieving the project’s objectives/targets.

                                                                34
         increased attention as the implementation of RSSP 2 progressed. By the project’s last
         year, the procurement team was conducting field visits to monitor contracts and had
         helped to improve management decision-making. Coordination with the M&E system,
         which included a contract monitoring system, had also improved.34 These improvements
         have continued under RSSP 3.

30.     Lessons. Smooth and efficient procurement was vital to the success of RSSP 2. Several of
the more important lessons specific to procurement under RSSP 2 can help to ensure that RSSP 3
benefits from experience in the project’s previous phase:
     From the early stages of preparation, share with the implementing agency appropriate
        World Bank tools to expedite sound standard bidding documents. PROCYS, Client
        Connection, and other relevant procurement planning and implementation tools can all
        speed procurement, facilitate implementation, and improve the likelihood of meeting key
        performance targets.
     Recruiting adequate procurement staff at the provincial level helps to build capacity at
        the district level in addition to expediting procurement.
     Establish a contract management monitoring system that will closely monitor contract
        execution. Involve procurement staff in contract management to help reduce delays and
        ensure that the provisions of contracts are consistently respected.
Ensure adequate and timely training in national procurement procedures for the procurement
committees established by cooperatives. This step will reinforce their capacity and reduce errors
in procurement processing. Trained procurement committees also enhance transparency and
accountability in the procurement process.

Progress toward Overall RSSP Program Indicators

31.     The overall program indicators are intended to measure the progress against the overall
RSSP program objective, which is to increase total incomes and reduce poverty by raising
productivity and expanding employment of land and labor in rural areas. These indicators are
applicable for all three phases of RSSP. In Phase 1 the indicators were not defined precisely and
were not tracked. A baseline was determined at the end of Phase 1, based on the Impact
Assessment survey undertaken at that point (2008). During RSSP 2, the three key indicators were
also defined more precisely. Table 3.2 highlights the impressive progress made by RSSP 2 by the
end of 2011.

32.     It is noted that it is apparent that the preparation team for RSSP 1 and the overall 3 phase
RSSP APL did not take into account the need to establish a baseline for the Program indicators
establishing with-project /without-project comparisons to be able to evaluate program results.
Not having this information systematically is a problem, especially when seeking to attribute
poverty reduction and other broader welfare changes enabled by direct, project-induced benefits.
Similarly, it is a reflection on the M&E design that apparently the most comprehensive measure
of household income was chosen as an indicator for the overall program goal. The fact that


34
  For example, during RSSP 2 implementation, the Project hired an additional M&E Assistant for contact monitoring purposes
who worked closely with the Procurement team on routine basis. This arrangement became very important after the LWH and
RSSP merger and creation of a larger portfolio to be tracked by the Procurement team.

                                                           35
household income/expenditure have other powerful drivers beyond farming suggests that this
choice was not entirely appropriate.

                      Table 3.2: Summary of Progress of Overall Program Indicators




33.     The baseline for Indicator 1 comes from the impact assessment at the end of RSSP 1 and
measures income from sales in beneficiary households. Based on the documentation, however,
the clear intent is that this indicator should refer to a more comprehensive measure of household
income, and it is therefore updated using EICV3 data.35 The OPM evaluation team decided to
use the estimate of consumption expenditure from the EICV3, rather than the estimate for
income. It is widely accepted that income and expenditure are strongly correlated, and there are
strong theoretical reasons for preferring expenditure. Consumption data are generally accepted as
smoother and less subject to fluctuation than income data; and consumption is in general
considered more reliable and easier to measure than the equivalent income figures. 36 The figure
used, RWF 232,000, is the mean annual consumption expenditure per adult equivalent.

34.     Because there is limited comparability between the baseline and the current estimate for
Indicator 1, it is difficult to say anything more than that the figure has clearly increased. Both
figures are calculated in prices of the respective year and have not been deflated. It is, however,
possible to compare the figure for RSSP beneficiaries in the EICV3 sample with a comparator
figure from the same EICV3 dataset. The comparator figure—for all rural households outside
Kigali (not benefiting from RSSP 2), in which at least one household member has a main job on
the family farm—is RWF 214,964. So we can say that RSSP 2 beneficiaries have experienced
improvements in their absolute consumption figures and have higher consumption levels than
their peers in Rwanda. However, given the lack of comparability between income and
consumption, it was agreed that the evaluation RSSP 3 for the Program level indicator 1 would
measure both income and consumption.




35
   Note that the EICV3 data do not allow differentiating between households that are currently benefiting from RSSP support and
those that previously did but no longer do. The estimates on consumption expenditure and poverty levels presented in this report
are therefore based on all households that ever benefited from RSSP support.
36
   A. Deaton (2002), “Guidelines for Constructing Consumption Aggregates for Welfare Analysis. ? LSMS Working Paper No.
135, World Bank, Washington, DC.

                                                              36
35.    The baseline for Indicator 2 is also taken from the RSSP 1 impact assessment. The
equivalent figure for 2010/11 from EICV3 data is 39.3 percent,37 a significant reduction in the
proportion of beneficiary households below the poverty line. The equivalent figure for the
comparator group within the EICV3 data (that is, non-beneficiary rural farming households) is
45.3 percent, so again we can say that RSSP 2 beneficiaries are better off. 38 As we lack an
equivalent comparator figure for the baseline, however, we cannot technically say that RSSP 2
beneficiaries have benefited from a reduction in poverty at a faster rate than the comparator
group, although it seems likely that to be the case.

36.     Indicator 3 is measured from MINAGRI crop assessment surveys. The districts in which
RSSP 2 had rehabilitated or developed marshlands were identified, and the average crop yield
was calculated by simply dividing total production in those districts by area. The average rice
yield is 5.34 t per hectare compared to 5.2 t per hectare for Rwanda as a whole in season A and
5.84 t per hectare for season B, as opposed to 5.75 t per hectare for Rwanda as a whole.39




37
   National statistics usually report poverty at the individual level—that is, the proportion of individuals under the poverty line—
rather than proportion of households, as indicated in the RSSP Overall Program Indicators. The corresponding figure from
EICV3 is 43.7 percent of individuals in RSSP beneficiary households are below the poverty line (and 50 percent for the
comparator group).
38
   Note that this comparison is based on the same EICV3 datasets. The SPIU secured an agreement with the National Institute of
Statistics to include a question indicating whether the surveyed household was a RSSP 2 beneficiary or not. This has helped us to
determine the percentage of people living under the poverty line in all districts, excluding Kigali-City districts, and excluding
RSSP 2 beneficiaries.
39
   These figures are lower than the figures reported under the Phase 3 triggers, because they reflect yields for all farmers in these
districts, not just those who benefited from the project. Figures for actual beneficiaries are 6.6 t per hectare, according to RSSP 2
M&E data (2013).

                                                                37
                         Annex 3: RSSP 2 ICR: Economic and Financial Analysis

Background

1.      The PDO of RSSP 2 was to increase agricultural production and marketing in marshland
and hillside areas targeted for development under the project in an environmentally sustainable
manner. It aimed to sustainably rehabilitate and develop marshlands and hillsides and to
strengthen commodity chains for increased commercialization of smallholder agriculture. The
project had an original cost of US$ 39.99 million40 to support three components: (1) Marshlands
and Hillsides Rehabilitation and Development; (2) Strengthening Commodity Chains; and (3)
Project Coordination and Support. This analysis includes actual costs of US$ 39.3 million
consisting of US$ 32.8 million through IDA as well as US$ 4.4 million provided by the
Government of Rwanda and an estimated US$ 2 million in beneficiary contributions.41

2.      Three main benefit streams were included in this economic and financial analysis, with
ha and number of facilities shown in Table 1: (1) increased value of production on marshlands;
(2) increased value of production and environmental benefits on hillsides through sustainable
land management (SLM) practices; and (3) returns on investment in infrastructure for
commodity chain development (namely drying floors and grain storage facilities). Project-
financed investments and capacity building on marshlands aimed to provide farmers with reliable
access to irrigation, allowing them to shift to cultivation of two rice crops per year using
improved production methods and reliable irrigation. Construction of soil and water conservation
structures and capacity building in the use of integrated soil fertility management practices aimed
to increase yields on hillsides. Project-financed drying floors and storage facilities targeted faster
and more complete drying and improved storage of crops to reduce storage losses, improve the
quality of products, and thus command higher prices in the market. Because evidence shows that
project beneficiaries are engaging in cow production and fisheries because of project-induced
incomes and infrastructure, unlike the PAD and MTR, the economic and financial analysis
(EFA) for the ICR also included project-induced net benefits from fish production using the
project-provided irrigation dams and net benefits from cow production made possible through
increased beneficiary incomes.

3.      The projected number of ha in the PAD Results Framework was exceeded on both
marshlands (3,300 ha) and hillsides (9,900 ha). No specific projections were made with respect
to the number of rural infrastructure units.

Table 1: RSSP 2 Area, Infrastructure Investments, and Other Project-induced Activities in
                                        the EFA
 Investment                                       2008           2009            2010           2011            Total
 Marshland developments (ha)                       520            520             534           1,750           3,324
 Hillside developments (ha)                      1,414           1,414           5,528          1,740           10,096
 Drying floors (units)                             10              10              5               5              30

40
    The original IDA allocation was US$ 35 million. A total of US$ 32.8 million was available/spent, due to exchange rate
differences in the SDR (currency of the original funds from the World Bank).
41
   The total actual project costs of US$ 39.3 million included US$ 809,196 paid by the Government of Rwanda as taxes. This
amount was included in the financial analysis and excluded from the economic analysis. See also Table 1 in Annex 1.

                                                           38
 Storage facilities (units)                             6               6                2                   2        15
                                     a
 Other project-induced activities:
     Irrigation dams with fisheries (ha)                0               24               91                  9       123
     Cooperatives with cow production                  56               14               11                  0        81
Source: RSSP 2 Implementation Status and Results Reports #1-7 (ISRs), and SPIU.
a Not included in the original analysis, and included in the ICR analysis given their apparent importance;


Methodology and Assumptions

4.      A 21-year discounted cash flow model was used to assess the economic and financial
returns of the project.42 The analysis focused on the net present value (NPV) of project benefits
and costs, before income taxes and financing. With applicable adjustments to the input
assumptions, the same model was used as for the PAD and MTR. 43 Annual benefits and costs of
marshland and hillside developments were calculated using representative farm models
aggregated up to the project level. Similarly, annual returns on rural infrastructure investments
were calculated for representative post-harvest infrastructures and then aggregated up to the
project level. While net benefits accrue to the cooperative, a representative fisheries model was
established on an average per hectare basis and aggregated up to the total area of new irrigation
dams (123 ha). Finally, because data were more readily available at the cooperative level, net
benefits of cow production were calculated for a single cooperative and aggregated up to the
project level based on the number of cooperatives involved in cow production (81 cooperatives).
Individual farmers remain the direct beneficiaries of the cow production activities. In general,
project interventions have enhanced the efficiency of the market outlets in order for farmers to
sell their surplus productions (crops, fisheries, and livestock).

5.     Development investments and other project costs. In the economic analysis for the
PAD, it was assumed that the benefits captured in the EFA model did not reflect the benefits of
capacity building for farmers’ organizations and cooperatives. As such the PAD only incl uded a
prorated portion of the capacity-building and project management costs, and the analysis covered
87 percent of the US$ 35 million budget. In the ICR it is now argued that not only productive
investments but also capacity building are required to capture and sustain the project’s
incremental net benefits. Therefore, the current EFA analysis covers the full US$ 39.3 million
invested through IDA, Government of Rwanda, and beneficiary contributions. The balance of the
total budget, not used for developments in Table 1, reflects capacity building and project
management in this Annex as well as Table 2 in Annex 2.

6.      Although the unit costs for Component 1 varied across sites, the average unit cost of
developing and rehabilitating one hectare of marshland without and with a dam (US$ 3,700 and
US$ 6,800, respectively) compares favorably with the US$ 13,000 and US$ 22,000 that is
respectively spent under a sister ongoing project (LWH) to develop one hectare of irrigated land

42
  The current report is based on results from the Excel model file named: RSSP_EFA_Model_20Jan2013.xlsm.
43
  As emphasized in the ERF for the MTR, some calculation errors were discovered in the EFA Excel model used in the PAD.
The calculation errors affected most of the benefit and cost estimates presented in the PAD, although to different extents.
Corrections were made to the EFA Excel model during the MTR to establish a baseline for comparison. Details of the corrections
can be found in the EFA technical document associated with the MTR. The Project ERR reported in the PAD was 20 percent,
with an economic NPV of RWF 8.9 billion. After correcting the EFA model, the estimated Project ERR was 34 percent, with an
economic NPV of RWF 24.5 billion.

                                                               39
“without? and “with? a dam.44 In addition, under RSSP 2 only about US$ 240 per hectare was
spent on soil and water conservation on the hillsides; this, in conjunction with other SLM
practices, generated a more than fourfold increase in productivity for beans and maize. This
outcome is very cost-efficient compared to the US$ 2,300 spent on soil and water conservation
on hillsides under LWH to pursue roughly similar yield improvements.45

7.      The assumptions used in the EFA were identified through the SPIU’s Impact Assessment
Survey, the OPM impact assessment, and consultation with/inputs from commodity experts in
MINAGRI and the SPIU. In addition the following points are used to model the situation using
representative farms/units and rural infrastructure, which provided the basis for aggregating the
benefits:

         Cropping patterns without (the counterfactual) and with the project were based on the
          RSSP 2 experience: sweet potato, paddy rice, banana, maize/bean intercropping, cassava,
          and fruit trees (papaya). All crops are harvested once a year, except for rice and
          maize/beans, which have two seasons. It was further assumed that bananas were planted
          in years 1–4 as areas were developed and then replanted every 10 years. Fruit trees were
          also planted in the first four years with no replanting during this 20-year analysis. The
          first banana harvest occurs after one year, and the first fruit harvest after two years.
          Cassava has an 18-month growing-to-harvest time, so yields and input requirement data
          have been adjusted by a factor of 2/3 to approximate annual crops. All other cropping
          costs are assumed to occur each year.
         Yield losses due to erosion. As in the PAD and MTR, the analysis included a 2 percent
          annual yield loss due to soil erosion without the project for bananas, maize/bean
          intercropping, and cassava.46
         Yield increases with and without the project are assumed to build gradually over four
          years for: paddy rice, bananas, maize-bean intercropping, cassava, napier, and fruit trees.
          Subsequently, a modest 1 percent annual increase occurs in paddy rice yields, given
          evidence of INAGRI’s intentions to ensure a constant flow of enhanced technologies
          including improved paddy seed.

44
   Hillside irrigation is much more expensive than marshland irrigation for three main reasons. First, the dams used are different.
The unit cost of storing one cubic meter is higher for a hillside dam than for a marshland dam. Storing water on a slightly sloping
terrain will require a higher dam compared to the kind of dam needed for a marshland, where the same amount of water can cover
a bigger area and require a lower dam. The calculations based on the recent works show that the average cost would be US$ 1.5
per cubic meter of water for a marshland dam and US$ 2.2 for a hillside dam. Second, efficient and sustainable hillside irrigation
typically requires the main canals to be lined (with masonry) and a secondary pipe network, resulting in higher costs for hillside
systems. These requirements account on average for 75 percent of the cost of the irrigation network. For marshlands this
infrastructure is unnecessary, given the flat topography and less permeable clay soils. Third, a number of marshlands to be
developed just need to be rehabilitated or extended to ensure double cropping and optimal water management, whereas the
hillside sites had to be completely developed for irrigation.
45
   RSSP 2 land husbandry technologies were much cheaper compared to the LWH approach. RSSP 2 emphasized progressive
terracing, which required the digging of retention ditches; RSSP 2 only piloted radical terracing (the most expensive alternative)
on a smaller area (400 ha). On slopes between 6 and 60 percent, LWH requires soil bunds and radical terraces, which are
engineering works and hence more costly. It is important to consider that varying topographic and soil conditions will warrant
different technologies and investments in RSSP 2, LWH, and other projects. This comparison was carried out to help confirm that
the design approach in RSSP 2 endeavored to come up with cost-effective and sustainable approaches. The same SPIU is
designing, implementing, and monitoring/evaluating these varying designs, so it will be important for SPIU to help MINAGRI
assess the comparative differences appropriate to different conditions.
46
   This result is also in line with findings presented on page 112 in the PAD for the LWH project referring to field experiments in
Rwanda and Kenya (Report 50901-RW).

                                                               40
         Fisheries. Labor components included in the fisheries model are: the labor involved in
          fishing; quarterly cleaning of the sides of the dam; and annual cost of a watchman. It was
          also assumed that fishing starts six months after initial stocking of the dam. The dams
          were stocked only once, and stocking costs were included in Year 1.
         Cow production. The cow production model was based on an initial herd of 330 cows
          increasing to a stable size of 620 (of which 150 bulls). Annual purchases of new heifers
          in Years 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 onwards were 13, 20, 25, 45, and 60, respectively. Each year
          male calves, cows over six years, and some female calves were sold to obtain the stable
          herd number. Costs indicated for stables and forage installations are for Year 1 and
          incremental increases in Years 2–4 to match the growing herd. The specific benefits from
          the cows derive from daily milk production and periodic meat and manure sales.
         Environmental benefits. In line with analyses in the PAD, it was assumed that the
          adoption of SLM technologies on hillsides would produce off-site environmental benefits
          in the form of carbon sequestration. Environmental benefits of carbon sequestration were
          assumed to constitute 0.5 t of carbon per hectare per year with an economic carbon price
          of US$ 20 per ton.47
         Technology adoption rates. The EFA model enables the analysis of technology adoption
          rates of less than 100 percent on marshlands and hillsides. This feature was not included
          in the PAD and MTR analyses, which assumed a rate of 100 percent. As monitored and
          verified by the RSSP 2 M&E system, the technology adoption rates are high, with an
          average of 25, 50, 75, and 90 percent in Years 1 through 4. 48 This level of adoption
          reflects farmers’ perceptions of the tangible benefits conferred by the technologies
          offered through the project. The current analysis assumes that non-adopters can only
          realize cropping output yields/prices and input quantities/costs equal to those obtained
          without the project.

8.      Inflation adjustment, discount rate, and exchange rate. In line with common practice
in the World Bank, all costs and prices have been adjusted for inflation to January 2008 (time of
appraisal). Also standard for World Bank projects, all US dollar investment costs have been
adjusted for inflation using the official Manufactures Unit Value Index (MUV), while all other
prices and, for consistency, all other costs have been adjusted using the Consumer Price Index
(CPI) obtained from the National Institute of Statistics of Rwanda. The MUV index is generally
accepted as a proxy for the price of developing country imports of manufactures in US dollars. A
discount rate of 12 percent was used to calculate NPV of the investment in accordance with
typical Bank practice (as described, for example, by Belli et al. 1998:179), and for consistency
with past practice in Rwandan agricultural operations. The exchange rate was set at RWF 629
per US dollar.

47
   Carbon sequestration of 0.5 t per hectare is in line with ranges reported for different land management practices in Table 5.1 in
Falloon et al. (2009) and Table 3.6 in World Bank (2012). Because farmers did not receive direct compensation based on carbon
sequestration in this project, sequestration only affected the economic net benefits. The social price of carbon emissions is
conventionally calculated as the pollution tax required to keep greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at the socially optimal level.
Expressed in terms of global warming, the optimal level of GHG emissions is the level at which the incremental cost of GHG
mitigation is equal to the value of averted damage due to climate change attributable to GHG. The estimated range of economic
or social prices in the PAD for RSSP 2 was based on findings in Fankhauser (1995) and compares to financial prices such as
those used in Biocarbon Fund projects, where activities that result in increased carbon sequestration are typically compensated at
a level of US$ 5/t CO2 equivalent (= US$ 17/t C; World Bank, 2011c). The value of environmental benefits was RWF 0.3 billion,
a modest portion of the total project benefits (see Table 2).
48
   Adoption rate refers to adopting at least two improved technologies.

                                                                41
9.       Economic prices. In line with the PAD and MTR analyses, it was argued that trade
barriers with major trading partners (Uganda, Kenya, Burundi, and Tanzania) are negligible for
most goods following the accession of Rwanda to the East Africa Community customs union,
and exchange rate distortions are minimal. Therefore the financial and economic prices for
tradable goods were assumed identical in the model with the exception of paddy rice. Economic
paddy rice price was assumed to be 80 percent of the financial price due to import tariff imposed
on rice imported from outside East Africa Community. This assumption is in line with findings
in a rice value chain study.49 With regard to other factors of production, the shadow price of
unpaid family labor (economic price) was assumed to be 14 percent below the cost of unskilled
hired labor (financial price) used in agricultural production (versus 40 percent used in the PAD).
Use of a higher shadow price was considered appropriate in view of the limited alternative
employment opportunities for family labor, although with the project the labor market was
tighter, with some seasonal shortages.50 Finally, the financial prices for NPK and urea fertilizers
are set at 50 percent of the economic prices because of the fertilizer subsidy. The fertilizer
subsidy applies only to maize and wheat production.

Results

10.     The “base case? economic NP is estimated to be RWF 57 billion US$ 90 million), with
an ERR of 47 percent, which compares favorably to the economic NPV estimated at appraisal of
RWF 25 billion with an ERR of 34 percent. The financial net present value was RWF 65 billion
(US$ 140 million). During the ICR mission it was clear, however, that the project had induced
important cow and fish benefits, which were included in an expanded economic analysis. The
following ex post analysis therefore includes net benefits from fisheries and cows while making
selected references to sensitivity analyses if these net benefits had not been included. The
resulting estimated project ERR was 91 percent, with an economic NPV of RWF 85 billion (US$
135 million) and financial NPV of RWF 93 billion (US$ 148 million), mainly generated through
the hillside developments and, to a lesser extent, from the other project investments. The EFA
shows that the project’s implementation was effective and efficient and that project-supported
investments are generating substantial benefits to farming communities in the project area (Table
2). Sixty-eight percent of project returns were generated from the net benefits of crop production
on hillsides and thirty-one percent from cow production. Cropping on marshlands and fisheries
generated 3 percent of the total NPV. The higher NPV and ERR including cow and fish benefits
are also explained by the relatively low cost of the investments to reap those incremental benefits
enabled directly by the project. The project’s capacity-building activities, including widespread
adoption of enhanced technologies, also made important contributions to achieving the favorable
NPV and ERR.

11.    Increased returns generated on hillsides are mainly driven by higher yields and
output prices. Note that results show the project’s impact to be more favorable than in earlier
analyses, particularly because of hillside developments. Improved yields and increased prices are
49
   See Rwanda Rice Commodity Chain Strategic Options to Maximize Growth and Poverty Reduction, prepared by D. Stryker,
2010.
50
   The summary of findings from stakeholder consultations (Nov. 29–Dec. 1, 2012) indicated that job creation was both
temporary (through construction) and permanent (through intensification). While labor shortages emerged when cropping
activities were at their peak, community labor groups were used to cover labor shortages.

                                                         42
expected outcomes of improved production practices, soil and water management, and capacity
building for farmer organizations and cooperatives. The assumptions show that, while many
operating costs increased with the project, the benefits increased even more—particularly with
respect to higher yields and price differentials between the without- and with-project situations
for bananas and cassava. These benefits were not recognized to the same extent during the PAD
and MTR analyses.

12.    Cow production generation a considerable share of project returns (31 percent). The
considerable net benefits from project-induced activities included as cow production, amounting
to an economic NPV of RWF 27 billion, were not included in the PAD and MTR analyses
because they were not foreseen to be important.

13.      Returns on marshland developments were higher than estimated in the PAD,
primarily because yields were higher than first expected. Fisheries generated a
considerable share of marshland benefits (12 percent). The assumptions show that operating
costs, yields, and output prices for paddy rice increased in the with-project situation. Overall this
leads to higher estimated returns than in the PAD, particularly because of higher observed yields.
Note that, the assumed paddy rice price of RWF 153 per kilogram was obtained by adjusting the
market price, which included benefits from drying and storage.51 While cropping on marshlands
generated an economic NPV of 11.3 billion, project-induced activities included as fisheries in
irrigation dams generated an economic NPV of RWF 1.5 billion. With investment costs of RWF
9.9 billion, the total marshland economic NPV was RWF 2.9 billion, as shown in Table 2. As
mentioned, the fisheries benefits were not included in the PAD and MTR analyses primarily
because they were not foreseen to become important. Because the marshland investment costs
were subsidized by the government, the beneficiary farmers still perceive and receive substantial
financial returns from these marshland investments.

14.     The estimated return on rural infrastructure investments was RWF 2.4 billion, with
an ERR of 129 percent, which is lower than in the PAD analysis because actual unit
investment costs increased substantially (for reasons already stated). The projections in the
PAD and MTR analyses included 48 drying floors and 48 storage facilities, which are much
higher than the final numbers of 30 and 15 units, respectively. As indicated by the SPIU, the
scope was adjusted to stay within budget, given the doubling of the actual unit cost of drying
floors and nearly trebling of the unit cost of storage facilities.

15.     The financial return on project investments is higher than the economic NPV. The
difference between financial and economic NPV is caused by the adjustment for the
economic paddy rice price, the fertilizer subsidy, and the shadow price of labor. In the PAD
analysis the shadow price of labor was 40 percent below the financial price, while in the ICR it is
assumed to be 14 percent below. This adjustment is in line with findings during the ICR field
trip, when beneficiary consultations revealed that alternative labor opportunities had increased
and that labor shortages remain during certain periods owing to the intensification of crop

51
   According to SPIU’s farm survey the paddy rice price was RWF 226 per kilogram (2008 prices; RWF 300 per kilogram in
2012 prices), including benefits of drying and storage. Adjustments were made for the quantity and price losses that were
avoided, but only half of the harvested rice is dried and stored, achieving full benefits ((15%+15%+15%+20%)*50%=32.5% of
farm gate price).

                                                          43
production. On the other hand, the economic NPV is lower than the financial NPV because the
economic prices for paddy rice and fertilizer were adjusted for import duties and the fertilizer
subsidy, respectively.

  Table 2: NPV and ERR by Subcomponent: Assumptions from the PAD (original EFA),
                              MTR, and current ICR
   Description/     PAD/Original EFA                      MTR 2010               ICR: Base Case            ICR Scenario 2
 Source of Benefits                                                                  (excluding                (including
                                                                                  fish and cows)            fish and cows)
RWF million              FIN ECON ERR               FIN    ECON ERR            FIN ECON ERR              FIN ECON ERR
                        NPV     NPV        %       NPV       NPV        %      NPV NPV           %      NPV       NPV  %
Marshlands               -4      1        15%       13        15       43%      8   1           14%      9         3  17% b
Hillsides:
   Crop production       11       11      30%        8         9       N/A      58      58      170%      58       58     170%
                   c
   Env. benefits                 0.3      N/A                 0.3      N/A              0.3      N/A               0.3     N/A
Rural infrastructure     14       14      N/A        14       15       N/A      4.6     2.4     129%      4.6      2.4    129%
Cow production                                                                                            27       27      N/A
        a
Other                    -2       -2      N/A        -2       -2       N/A      -6       -5      N/A      -6       -5      N/A
Total project            19       25      34%        32       37       58%      65      57      47%       93       85     91%
Note: “N/A? indicates a rate of return that cannot be calculated with a net profit received already in the first year. The NP Vs for
marshlands and rural infrastructure were artificially high for the MTR analysis, because the assumed paddy rice price was the
same in financial and economic prices (when the economic price should have been adjusted lower), and the farm gate paddy rice
price included benefits from drying and storage (thereby double-counting benefits also included under rural infrastructure).
a “Other? constitutes capacity building and project management. Benefits are captured in other line items.
b Includes net benefits from fishery.
c For assumptions and methodology, see para. 7.


16.     As an indicator of improved household incomes, the estimated financial gross
margins reflected in the model’s representative farm models increased by 355 percent on
marshlands and increased by 61 percent on hillsides. Table 3 shows that, with the current
assumptions, the estimated financial gross margin on marshlands when switching from sweet
potato to irrigated rice increased from a baseline of US$ 428 per hectare to US$ 1,951 per
hectare (a 355 percent increase). With the assumed changes in cropping pattern on hillsides,
financial gross margin increased by 61 percent from a baseline of US$ 1,699 per hectare to US$
2,735 per hectare. Based on an average farm size of 0.2 hectare, the gross margin analysis
indicates a substantial increase in household income on marshland areas (from US$ 86 to US$
390) and on hillsides (from US$ 340 to US$ 547).

                       Table 3: Financial Gross Margin, with and without RSSP 2
 Financial Gross Margin                                      Year 3                                       Year 4
                                                                           Change,                                       Change,
                                             RWF/ha          US$/ha                       RWF/ha          US$/ha
                                                                             %                                             %
 Marshlands (cropping):
     Gross margin, without project              269,420             428                       269,420            428
     Gross margin, with project              1,189,497             1,891     +342%        1,227,040             1,951    +355%
 Hillsides (cropping):
     Gross margin, without project              473,955             754                   1,068,444             1,699

                                                               44
      Gross margin, with project              665,477          1,058      +40%         1,720,115          2,735       +61%
Note: Excludes fisheries and cow production. Financial gross margins are calculated before income taxes and financing. The
gross margins are for Year 3, when there are planting costs and yield revenue from both bananas and fruit trees, and for Year 4
when more but not all of the yield benefits have been realized.

17.     Because the project exceeded the target number of ha developed on marshlands and
hillsides, there were no missed opportunities. The project team attributed the increase in
marshland development costs to growing demand for limited capacity in Rwanda’s construction
industry, increases in input/material costs, and the impact of the global financial crisis.
Marshland developments were selected to stay within the current project budget. Several
marshland developments that had been identified for implementation, and which had higher unit
costs, were instead deferred to the third phase of RSSP.

18.     The project achieved an impressive farmer technology adoption rate of 90 percent
after four years, which has been monitored and verified by the project M&E system; if the
project had only achieved an 80 percent adoption rate, the economic NPV would have
fallen from RWF 85 billion to RWF 76 billion when fisheries and cows are included. As
noted, 10 percent of farmers did not adopt the project technology on marshland and hillside
developments. They were therefore unable to increase their productivity and obtain the increased
prices and cost savings obtained by farmers who did adopt the technology. Figure 1 shows the
potential impact of different levels of adoption. Had the project obtained 100 percent technology
adoption on developed areas, the NPV could have increased from RWF 85 billion to RWF 94
billion. The equivalent result when excluding fisheries and cows was an increased NPV from
RWF 57 billion to RWF 66 billion. On the other hand, the project NPV with fisheries and cows
could have fallen to RWF 76 billion if adoption rates had only reached 80 percent of developed
areas. Equivalently, the NPV could have fallen to RWF 48 billion with an 80 percent adoption
rate when excluding fisheries and cows. There is also evidence that these technology
improvements will be sustained by farmers, given that technology services are in place to ensure
continuous flow of improved technologies. While not shown in the figure, the analysis identified
the importance of sustaining technology improvements: If the current 1 percent annual yield
increase assumed on paddy rice was not sustained, the marshland economic NPV would fall
from RWF 2.9 billion to RWF 1.5 billion (-48 percent). The equivalent result when excluding
fisheries and cows was that the economic NPV would fall from RWF 1.4 billion to zero.




                                                             45
  Figure 1: Economic NPV with Different Technology Adoption Rates in Marshlands and
                                       Hillsides
                              Faster adoption rates: NPV= RWF 87 billion; ERR=103%
                              Higher adoption rates: NPV= RWF 94 billion; ERR=98%
                              Actual adoption rates: NPV= RWF 85 billion; ERR=91%
                              Lower adoption rates: NPV= RWF 76 billion; ERR=85%
           100%

             80%

             60%

             40%

             20%

              0%
                           Year 1                Year 2                Year 3                Year 4
                 Note: Adoption rate refers to adopting at least two improved technologies. NPV and ERR
                                                 include fisheries and cows.


19.      Depending on the net benefits of an additional US$ 5 million spending on capacity
building, the economic NPV could increase from RWF 85 billion to RWF 89 billion when
fisheries and cows are included. Project returns improve with increased capacity-building
activities at the cooperative level for further technology transfer and enhanced cooperative
business skills. Current capacity building enabled farmers to further: (i) increase their yields; (ii)
increase their ability to obtain higher output prices; (iii) reduce their input use without losing
yield or price advantages; (iv) increase their ability to purchase inputs at lower cost; and (v)
embark on profitable enterprises, as they diversify and expand their value chain. Table 4
illustrates some possible scenarios in which an additional US$ 5 million spent on capacity
building could lead to different level of benefits. For example, if no additional benefits were
achieved, the economic NPV would drop from RWF 85 billion to RWF 83 billion. On the other
hand, the economic NPV would increase only to RWF 89 billion if one could achieve a 4 percent
increase in revenue (through a 0.5 percent increase in yields and prices across the board) and a 4
percent decrease in input costs (through a 1 percent decrease in input use and costs across the
board). The equivalent result when excluding fisheries and cows was that the estimated
economic NPV of RWF 57 billion could vary between RWF 54 and 59 billion.

 Table 4: Changes in NPV with Increased Investment in Capacity Building and Different
                         Effects on Output and Input Factors
       Economic NPV, RWF billion                                          x% decrease in NPV of input costs
                                                                      0%               -2%                -4%
                                                   0%                82.6              83.3               83.9
       x% increase in NPV of revenue               2%                85.4              86.0               86.6
                                                   4%                88.0              88.6               89.3
        Note: Additional capacity building budget = US$ 5 million. Base case economic NPV = RWF 85 billion
        without this increased budget and associated benefits. A 2% (4%) increase in revenue requires a 0.5%
        (1%) increase in all yields and output prices. A 2% (4%) decrease in input costs requires a 0.5% (1%)
        decrease in all inputs and input costs. Includes fisheries and cows production factors.


                                                          46
20.      Total project returns are not very sensitive to changes in assumptions, but returns
on the marshland subcomponent could be erased by a 10 percent fall in paddy rice
price/yield or a 29 percent increase in investment costs when fisheries benefits are included.
Switching values indicate how much a single unit price/cost variable has to change to make
economic NPV zero—while holding all other variables fixed. The switching values were
calculated for the project as a whole as well as separately for each subcomponent (Tables 5 and
6). The project return is most, but not very, dependent on yield and prices/costs on hillside crops
and cows (Table 5). For example, using the assumptions from the PAD, the rice price would
have to fall by 53 percent, to RWF 70 per kilogram, before resulting in negative returns. In the
current ICR analysis, the with-project banana price would have to fall from RWF 67 per
kilogram to RWF 9 per kilogram (-87 percent) before the project returns become zero. The
equivalent result when excluding fisheries and cows was that banana price would have to fall by
58 percent to RWF 28 per kilogram before project returns become zero. When we look at each
subcomponent separately, the results for the marshland subcomponent are more sensitive to
changes in yields, prices, and costs. A 10 percent fall in rice price/yield or 29 percent increase in
investment costs would lead to no returns on marshland areas (including fisheries). If we exclude
fisheries, the rice price would have to fall by 4 percent or the investment costs would have to
increase by 14 percent before project returns become zero. For hillside development it would
take a 60 percent reduction in the banana price or yield to erase returns (including environmental
benefits). And a 28 percent fall in the paddy rice price would make the rural infrastructure
subcomponent break even. The economic NPV of cow production would turn zero if the number
of initial cows per cooperative fell by 32 percent or if the milk price/yield fell by 34 percent. It
should be noted that marshland development contributes to a transformation of the rural sector
by enabling investment in other productive activities such as cows. Field visits also showed that
many farmers adopted the improved practices after they had witnessed substantial income
increases from the marshland schemes.

21.      The following discussion will focus on the validity of the current assumptions in light of
their relative effect on project returns: Crop yields, crop prices, investment costs, and input costs.

                 Table 5: Switching Values, Total Project (Original EFA and ICR)
                                                 Original EFA                          ICR
Variable                        Unit     Base    Switching Absolute      Base     Switchin   Absolute     Economic
                                                    Value          %              g Value           %     NPV = 0
                                                            difference                       difference
Paddy rice price W/P           RWF/kg      150          70      53%                                        Project
Paddy rice yield W/P           kg/ha     5,000       1,075      79%                                        Project
NPK price                      RWF/kg      350       1,111    217%                                         Project
Investment costs in irrigation US$/ha    6,000     21,379     256%                                         Project
Economic labor unit costs      RWF/day     300       1,216    305%                                         Project
Investment cost on hillsides US$/ha        500       5,626   1025%                                         Project
Banana-Yield-W/P               kg/ha                                     59,434     24,719         58%     Project
Banana-Price-W/P               RWF/kg                                        67         28         58%     Project
Banana-Price-WO/P              RWF/kg                                        47         99        111%     Project
Cassava-Price-WO/P             RWF/kg                                       101        395        290%     Project
Marshlands-Initial irrigationUSD/ha                                       6,670     44,796        572%     Project
capital investment
Sweet Potato-Yield-WO/P kg/ha                                             6,000     56,227        837%     Project
Sweet Potato-Price-WO/P        RWF/kg                                        67        631        837%     Project
Paddy         rice-Labor-W/P-day/ha                                         400      4,586       1046%     Project
Season A


                                                          47
Note: W/P = with-project situation; WO/P = without-project situation. Excludes fisheries and cows in ICR analysis. Yields are
shown for Year 1, before the full yield increase has occurred, but the switching value is calculated based on the full yield increase
being achieved in project.


     Table 6: Switching Values: ICR EFA (Marshland and Hillside Developments, Rural
                           Infrastructures, and Cow Production)
                                                                                         ICR
Variable                                             Unit                Base      Switching    Absolute %           Economic
                                                                                     Value       difference          NPV = 0 3
Paddy rice-Price-W/P-Season A                         RWF/kg                 153          145            5%          Marshland
Paddy rice-Yield-W/P-Season A                         kg/ha                6,121        5,803            5%          Marshland
Investment costs in irrigation                        US$/ha               6,670        7,591           14%          Marshland
Sweet Potato-Price-WO/P                               RWF/kg                  67        7,215           20%          Marshland
Sweet Potato-Yield-WO/P                               kg/ha                6,000           81           20%          Marshland
Paddy rice-Labor-W/P-Season A                         day/ha                 400          501           25%          Marshland
Banana-Price-W/P                                      RWF/kg                  67           27           60%           Hillside
Banana-Yield-W/P                                      kg/ha               59,434       23,829           60%           Hillside
Banana-Price-WO/P                                     RWF/kg                  47          101          114%           Hillside
Cassava-Price-WO/P                                    RWF/kg                 101          402          298%           Hillside
Maize-Bean Intercrop-Labor-W/P-Season A               day/ha                 350        5,607         1502%           Hillside
Maize-Bean Intercrop-Price-WO/P-Season A              RWF/kg                  81        1,585         1861%           Hillside
Banana-Manure-W/P                                     kg/ha               20,000     410,516          1953%           Hillside
NPK-Financial                                         RWF/kg                 168        3,863         2194%           Hillside
Manure price                                          RWF/kg                    7         160         2276%           Hillside
Hillsides-Initial hillside capital investment         US$/ha                 415       12,894         3004%           Hillside
Paddy rice-Price-W/P-Season A                       RWF/kg                    153          111            28%        Rural Infr.
Quantity dried/ stored per period-Drying Floors     t/month                   225          142            37%        Rural Infr.
Material Costs-Drying Floors                        mill      RWF/            1.35         2.35           75%        Rural Infr.
                                                    month
Material Costs-Storage Facilities                   mill      RWF/            2.02           3.97            97% Rural Infr.
                                                    month
Drying Floors-Initial Capital Investment            mill RWF/unit            14.24         115.17           708% Rural Infr.
Storage Facilities-Initial Capital Investment       mill RWF/unit            21.37         217.52           918% Rural Infr.
Labor price - financial                             RWF/day                    471         46,848          9836% Rural Infr.
Note: W/P = with-project situation; WO/P = without-project situation. Yields are shown for Year 1, before the full yield increase
has occurred, but the switching value is calculated based on the full yield increase being achieved in four years. Marshlands also
include fisheries production. Hillsides also include environmental benefits.

22.    Use of national yield and price data was limited to validating key assumptions. Note
that because RSSP 2 does not cover significant shares of any districts, district-level data for
prices and yields cannot be used to reveal direct impact from RSSP 2 investments. Instead,
national data from MINAGRI and e-Soko online databases are used below to validate key
assumptions of the EFA model by showing national averages for the period before the project
began (2006–07) and the period of project implementation (2008–11).

23.     Currently assumed yield levels correspond well to national data for Rwanda, except
banana and cassava yields. If no yield benefits had been obtained on hillside crops, the
economic NPV would have fallen from RWF 85 billion to RWF 47 billion and the ERR
would have fallen from 91 percent to 58 percent. Because yield, price, and cost assumptions
are the factors that drive the estimated project returns, data from other comparable sources were
obtained to examine the validity of current EFA assumptions. Using data from MINAGRI, Table
7 shows that the yield assumptions for sweet potato and maize/beans lie close to the national data
for Rwanda in both time periods. The national data for paddy rice includes both irrigated and
unirrigated rice, so it is expected that the current assumption of 6,500 kilograms per hectare for

                                                                48
irrigated rice lies above the national average. The project yields for bananas and cassava are
much higher than the national average, but they are achievable and have been verified by the
project team and MINAGRI experts. It should be noted that district officials selected project
areas with low yields and good potential for increases. The assumption was that capital
investments, together with capacity building, would enable farmers to increase their yields to the
with-project levels shown in Table 7. Had these higher yields not been obtained on hillsides in
spite of capacity building, higher output prices, and higher input costs, then the economic NPV
would have been only RWF 47 billion with an ERR of 58 percent. If we exclude fisheries and
cows, the project economic NPV when no yield effects are obtained on hillsides would have
been only RWF 19 billion, with an ERR of 24 percent.

Table 7: Current Yield Assumptions Compared to Rwanda Yield Data, 2006–07 and 2008–
                                        11
kg/ha a        Sweet Potato    Paddy Rice b       Banana       Maize+Bean c      Cassava
            2006-07 2008-11 2006-07 2008-11 2006-07 2008-11 2006-07 2008-11 2006-07 2008-11
Current EFA Assumption:
WO/P        6,000                                           55,000                1,500               23,333
W/P         -                                   6,500                  75,000                 4,000            25,000
Rwanda National Data (MINAGRI):
Minimum 5,435         5,434  3,422              4,318       6,753      7,365      1,521       1,570   5,155    11,533
Average    5,657      6,560  4,399              5,063       7,431      8,317      1,637       2,725   5,954    13,269
Maximum 5,898         8,086  5,006              5,942       7,726      9,340      1,737       3,764   7,573    15,411
Source: MINAGRI Crop Assessment Reports.
a All average yields are weighted by planting area for each crop by region and year.
b Rice yields reported by MINAGRI combine both irrigated and non-irrigated rice.
c Maize and bean intercropping is approximated through a weighted average of maize and bean yields.


24.    Output prices, except for paddy rice, were relatively low compared to 2008–11 e-
Soko data. By obtaining the national average in without- and with-project prices, the
economic NPV decreased from RWF 85 billion to RWF 67 billion. The assumed output
prices were compared to averages based on e-Soko commodity price data. Table 8 shows that the
assumed without- and with-project prices were relatively low compared to the national averages.
A few sensitivity analyses were conducted to explore the effect of price changes (Table 9). For
example, by obtaining the national average for without- and with-project prices, the economic
NPV decreased from RWF 85 billion to RWF 67 billion and an ERR of 68 percent. The
equivalent result when excluding fisheries and cows was that the economic NPV would fall from
RWF 57 billion to RWF 39 billion with an ERR of 33 percent. In a worst-case scenario, if the
captured output prices were combined with no yield benefits on hillsides, the economic NPV
including fisheries and cows could have fallen to RWF 19 billion and an ERR of 26 percent. No
assessment was made as to the probability of these price and yield changes occurring either
separately or together.

   Table 8: Current Output Price Assumptions Compared to Rwanda National Average,
                                      2009–11
RWF/ha a    Sweet Potato    Paddy Rice b      Banana       Maize+Bean c       Cassava
          2006-07 2008-11 2006-07 2008-11 2006-07 2008-11 2006-07 2008-11 2006-07 2008-11
Current EFA Assumption:

                                                             49
 WO/P       67                                                   47                     81                     101
 W/P         -                                      153                      67                     135                    135
Rwanda National Averages (e-Soko):
 Minimu
 m          57       12       303                   146          84          11         137          47        138         53
 Average    86       73       321                   278         106          88         168         162        174         148
 Maximu
 m         120      252       340                   378         119         410         207         477        209         326
Source: e-Soko database of commodity prices by province, district, market, commodity, and day, accessed November 28, 2012.
http://www.esoko.gov.rw.
a All prices have been inflation adjusted to January 2008 using CPI from Rwanda Statistics.
b Original e-Soko price for rice adjusted for paddy in line with the PAD EFA (multiplied by 67%). The data covers all qualities
of rice.
c Only maize prices available for the period.


     Table 9: Economic NPV with Different Levels of Revenue Factors on Marshlands and
                                         Hillsides
Changes to Revenue Factors (billion RWF)                                                             Economic NPV
No yield improvements on hillsides                                                             47
WO/P prices obtained equal to national averages in Table 8                                      2                         19
                                                                                                             67
W/P prices obtained equal to national averages in Table 8                                     151
Base case                                                                                                    85
Note: Other factors were maintained as in the base case. Includes fisheries and cows.


25.      The project has avoided inefficiencies by keeping unit investment costs on
marshlands considerably below the regional average. The currently assumed US$ 6,670 per
hectare unit capital investment cost for irrigation development is low compared to averages for
Sub-Saharan Africa as reported by Inocencio et al. (2005). That research report included several
irrigation systems and indicated that successful irrigation projects in Sub-Saharan Africa had unit
costs averaging US$ 3,552 per hectare compared to less successful projects averaging US$
17,396 per hectare (inflation adjusted to 2008 prices).52 For comparison with the current EFA
model, Table 10 shows that lowering the assumed unit costs to those designated as successful,
increased the economic NPV to RWF 90 billion. By keeping unit costs substantially below those
found in unsuccessful projects by Inoncencio et al (2005), the project prevented the current
economic NPV from falling from RWF 85 billion to RWF 69 billion and prevented the
marshland subcomponent from giving negative returns. As noted, a 29 percent increase in
investment costs in marshlands would erase the return on this subcomponent. If we exclude
fisheries and cows, keeping unit costs low has prevented the economic NPV from falling from
RWF 57 billion to RWF 41 billion with negative returns on the marshland subcomponent.

 Table 10: Marshland Total Economic NPV with Different Levels of Unit Investment Costs
Changes to Unit Investment Costs                                                   Economic NPV (billion RWF)
                                                                              Total Marshland Total Marshland
No yield improvements on hillsides                                               47     2.9
                                                                                                      51    7.6
Marshlands: Initial irrigation capital investment reduced to US$                 90     7.6

52
  The Inocencio et al. (2005) report covers 314 investment projects by the World Bank, AfDB, and IFAD. Using 2000 prices the
range of unit hardware costs was USD 2,866/ha in South Asia increasing to USD 10,473/ha in Sub-Saharan Africa. In that report
hardware costs are defined as total project investment costs excluding agriculture supports and institution building. The study by
the Irrigation Water Management Institute reported on unit costs as an average for all types of irrigation systems such as: River-
diversion; river-dam-reservoir; tank; river-lift; groundwater-lift; and drainage/flood control.

                                                               50
3,500/ha (-48%)
No yield improvements on hillsides                                                 47    2.9
Marshlands: Initial irrigation capital investment increased to US$                                    31        -13.1
                                                                                  69    -13.1
17,400 ha (+161%)
Base case                                                                                       85
Note: Other factors were maintained as in the base case. Includes fisheries and cows.


26.     While some input costs may have been considerably higher or lower than what was
assumed in the model, the overall effect would have been very small, maintaining the
economic NPV above RWF 80 billion and an ERR of 84 percent. The e-Soko database also
includes time-series data of NPK and urea fertilizer prices. The current assumptions that these
prices were RWF 337 per kilogram and RWF 323 per kilogram, respectively, were close to the
district averages of RWF 350–300 per kilogram calculated from the e-Soko database.53 By
considering the minimum and maximum prices in the data set, it was found that these prices
could have been 40 percent lower or 80–90 percent higher. It was also recognized that in earlier
EFA analyses of the project, the economic price of labor was 40 percent below the financial
price, rather than 14 percent as in the current assumptions. The separate and combined effects on
economic NPV of all these cost factors were very small, as shown in Table 11. The economic
NPV varied between RWF 80 billion (ERR = 84 percent) and RWF 89 billion (ERR = 100
percent). When excluding fisheries and cows in the cases analyzed in Table 11, the economic
NPV varied between RWF 51 billion (ERR = 43 percent) and RWF 61 billion (EFF = 50
percent). It was not possible to obtain other comparable input cost data to extend this analysis.

      Table 11: Economic NPV with Different Levels of Cost Factors on Marshlands and
                                        Hillsides
Changes to Cost Factors                                                                 Economic NPV (billion RWF)
NPK fertilizer prices increases by 90%; urea fertilizer price increases by 80%              80
                                                                                                             81
Economic price of labor is 40% below financial price rather than 14%                        87
NPK and urea fertilizer price decrease by 40%                                               88
                                                                                                             89
Economic price of labor is 40% below financial price rather than 14%                        87
Base case                                                                                          85
Note: Other factors were maintained as in the base case. Includes fisheries and cows.


27.      As for the PAD, this analysis did not include benefits generated by project-supported
activities that could be transferred outside the project area through trained farmers interacting
with other communities (spillover effects that appear to be important but were not monitored).
Other project-induced production activities also generated important benefits to participating
cooperatives and their members, such as beekeeping and rabbit raising introduced in project
communities; straw from rice paddy fields used as fodder for cows and organic fertilizer for
crops; and manure from rabbits used for fish feed. Benefits are also expected to extend beyond
the 21-year time-frame included in this analysis.


Source: EFA analyses models for PAD and MTR (data provided by project team and the SPIU). ICR assumptions provided by
Single Project Implementation Unit (SPIU) in November 2012 prices and adjusted to 2008 prices. Data were obtained from
farmer                survey.               CPI               deflator:               Rwanda                  Statistics:


53
 Includes e-Soko data for 2009–11 accessed November 28, 2012. All prices have been inflation adjusted to January 2008 using
CPI from Rwanda Statistics.

                                                               51
http://statistics.gov.rw/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=262&Itemid=308.                   MUV:        World         Bank:
http://go.worldbank.org/DZLIAJ2730
Note: 1. Initial unit costs for capital investments for marshlands, hillsides, drying floors, and storage facilities are calculated
         from actual investment costs divided by the number of units. They include costs covered by IDA, Government of
         Rwanda, and beneficiary contributions.
         2. Yields WO/P: Bananas, maize/bean intercropping, and cassava yields in without-project situation are reduced by 2%
         annually to reflect soil erosion.
         3. Yields W/P: Yield increased in with-project situation for paddy rice, banana, maize-bean intercropping, cassava,
         napier, and fruit trees is assumed to occur gradually over 4 years. Subsequently, there is a 1% increase in paddy rice yield
         each year.
         4. According to farm survey the paddy rice price was RWF 226/kg (2008 prices; RWF 300/kg in 2012 prices) including
         benefits of drying and storage benefits. Adjustments were made for avoided quantity and price losses as shown in the
         table above but only half of the harvested rice is dried and stored achieving full benefits
         ((15%+15%+15%+20%)*50%=32.5% of farm gate price).
         5. The 50% fertilizer subsidy does not apply to paddy rice production.
         6. Fish harvest and labor costs are 50% in Year 1.
         7. The cow production model was based on an initial herd size of 330 cows increasing to a stable herd size of 620 (of
         which 150 bulls). Annual purchase of new heifers in years 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 onwards were 13, 20, 25, 45, and 60
         respectively. Each year male calves, cows over 6 years, and some female calves were sold to obtain the stable herd
         number. Costs indicated for tables and forage installations are for Year 1 and incremental increases in Years 2-4 to match
         the growing herd.
         8. Deflator for RWF: CPI Sep 2012 = 100 and Jan 2008=67.Deflator for US$: MUV 2012=100 and Jan 2008=97.1.




           Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


     (a) Task Team members

                                                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                                    Title                           Unit
                                                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Michael Morris                Lead Agricultural Economist                         AFTAR       Task Team Leader
Soulemane Fofana              Operations Officer                                  AFTAR       Operations Officer
Otieno Ayany                  Financial Management Specialist                     AFTFM       Financial Management Specialist
Chantal Kajangwe              Procurement Analyst                                 AFTPC       Procurement Analyst
Toni Kayonga                  Operations officer                                  AFTSD       Operations officer
Anushika Karunaratne          Consultant                                          AFTN1       Consultant
Yasmine Umutoni               Team Assistant                                      AFMRW       Team Assistant


                                                                52
Loraine Ronchi            Economist                               AFTAR    Economist
Marie-Louise Ah-Kee       Procurement Analyst                     AFTAR    Procurement Analyst
Guillemette Jaffrin       Financial Sector Specialist             SASFP    Financial Sector Specialist
Victoria Gyllerup         M&E Specialist                          MNADE    M&E Specialist
Patrice Sade              Team Assistant                          AFTAR    Team Assistant
Mary Bitekerezo           Social development Specialist           AFTCS    Social development Specialist
Sergiy Zorya              Economist                                AES     Economist
Diego Garrido             M&E Specialist                          AFTRL    M&E Specialist
John Boyle                Senior Environmental Specialist         AFTEN    Senior Environmental Specialist

Non World Bank Staff
Josep Gari                Community Development Specialist, FAO    FAO
Amadou Soumaila           Irrigation Engineer, FAO                 FAO


Supervision/ICR
Pin Foon K. F. Ah-Kee     Procurement Analyst                     AFTA1    Procurement Analyst
Otieno Ayany              Financial Management Specialist         AFTME    Financial Management Specialist
Mary C.K. Bitekerezo      Senior Social Development Spec          EASDE    Senior Social Development Spec
Martin Fodor              Senior Environmental Specialist         AFTN3    Senior Environmental Specialist
Diego Garrido Martin      Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist      AFTDE    M&E Specialist
Chantal Kajangwe          Procurement Specialist                   AFTPE   Procurement Specialist
Toni Ntaganda Kayonga     Consultant                              AFTCS    Operations Officer
Michael Morris            Lead Agriculture Economist              AFTA2    Task Team Leader
Valens Mwumvaneza         Rural Development Specialist            AFTA2    Rural Development Specialist
Patrice Sade              Program Assistant                       AFTA2    Program Assistant
Yasmine Umutoni           Consultant                                AES    Team Assistant
Mark A. Austin            Senior Operations Officer               AFTAR    Task Team Leader
Loraine Ronchi            Senior Economist                        AFTAR    Task Team Leader
Noreen Beg                Senior Environmental Specialist         AFTEN    Sr Environmental Spec
Svetlana Khvostova        Operations Analyst                      AFTOS    Information Analyst
Hardwick Tchale           Senior Agriculture Economist            AFTAR    Sr Agriculture Economist
Pascal Tegwa              Senior procurement Specialist            AFTPE   Sr Procurement Specialist
Antoinette Kamanzi        Procurement Assistant                   AFMRW    Procurement Assistant
Belinda Mutesi            Team Assistant                          AFMRW    Team Assistant
                                                                           Sr     Financial    Management
Paul Welton               E T Consultant                          AFTME
                                                                           Specialist
Sameena Dost               Senior Counsel                         LEGAF    Senior Counsel
Wolfgang Chadab            Financial Officer                      LOAG2    Financial Officer
Marie-Louise Ah-kee        Procurement Analyst                    AFTAR    Procurement Analyst
Pierre Morin               Sr. Procurement Specialist             AFTPC    Sr. Procurement Specialist
John A. Boyle              Sr. Environmental Specialist           AFTEN    Sr. Environmental Specialist
Soulemane Fofana           Operations Analyst                     AFTAR    Operations Analyst
Korotimi Sylvie Traore Language Program Assistant                 AFTAR    Language Program Assistant
Marie               Jeanne
                           Program Assistant                      AFMRW Program Assistant
Uwanyarwaya
Guillemette Jaffrin        Financial Sector Specialist            AFTFS Financial Sector Specialist
Anushika Karunaratne       Consultant                             AFTAR Consultant
Rodrigue Djahlin           Consultant                             AFTAR Consultant

                                                          53
Richard Anson        Consultant                                          ICR Mission Leader
Alex Mwanakasale     Senior Agricultural Specialist          AFTA3       Senior Agricultural Specialist
Meena Munshi         Senior Economist                        AFTA3       Social development Specialist
Abel Lufafa          Agricultural Officer                    AFTA3       Soil Specialist
Alice Usanase        Junior Professional Associate           AFMRW       Private Sector Specialist
Hild Rygnestad       Consultant                              PRMED       Consultant
Elizabeth Mutesi     Procurement Analyst                      AFTPE      Procurement Analyst



                                      Non World Bank Staff
Amadou Soumaila        Irrigation Specialist, FAO          Rome, Italy
Alberta Mascaretti     Agricultural Specialist, FAO        Rome, Italy
Thierry Lassalle       Organizational development and      Rome, Italy
                       Capacity Development
Josep Gari             Community Development Specialist    FAO
Derek Baker            Agribusiness Specialist             FAO



     (b) Staff Time and Cost

                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project
Cycle                 No. staff             US$ Thousands (including travel and consultant
                      weeks                                     costs)
Lending
Bank Admin. Funds                         661,643
BB-FAO                                    251,910
Total:                                    913,553

Supervision/ICR
Bank Admin. Funds                         699,624
BB+FAO                                    182,950
Total:                                    882,574




                                                      54
     Annex 5: Summary of Key Findings - Stakeholder Impact Assessment Study for RSSP 2
                                    (February 2012)54

1.      This Impact Assessment report discusses first the activities carried out under RSSP 2 and
then the impact these have had on supported households, in terms of farming behavior, living
conditions and well-being. It uses a mixed-methods approach, combining qualitative and
quantitative research techniques, to assess impact and attribute it to RSSP 2.

2.       Infrastructure. Under RSSP 2, the project rehabilitated and developed marshlands and
hillsides and provided facilities such as drying bays and storage space. Respondents in RSSP-
supported cooperatives are aware of the benefits and grateful for the extent of RSSP support in
terms of providing such infrastructure and facilities. Users express a high degree of satisfaction.
Users of irrigation dams, rivers weirs or other water intakes were very satisfies at 70%; 64% of
users of irrigation canal were very satisfied while 35% were quite satisfied. 73% of farmers in
the marshlands were very satisfied of soil erosion control infrastructures used to protect the
irrigated marshland. Of the 70% HHs that access drying facilities 65% were very satisfied. The
same levels of satisfaction were expressed for HHs with access to storage facilities. With regards
to soil erosion control structures beneficiary HHs were very satisfies at 70% and quite satisfied at
20%

3.       Most cooperative members who were asked about their expectations regarding the
sustainability of such infrastructure were positive in their responses. They appeared to feel strong
ownership of such infrastructure and recognize the advantages of their access to it, so they were
happy to contribute to its upkeep. A frequent request from beneficiary farmers was for further
extension of agricultural facilities such as drying yards and storage facilities. Respondents
repeatedly pointed out that production had gone up to the point of outstripping the provision of
facilities to handle post-harvest activities in terms of size, number, and distance from farmers.

4.     RSSP 2 piloted WUAs in the marshlands to encourage sustainable management of water.
Reaction to the WUAs was universally positive among respondents. The associations are seen to
provide more equitable water distribution and reduce community conflict.

5.       Cooperative strengthening. RSSP initiatives are positively affecting the structure and
accountability of supported cooperatives. Since the introduction of RSSP support, these
cooperatives now have better book-keeping procedures and records in place, have set up new
committees with specific mandates such as marketing or post-harvest management, have
established a small group structure, and some have put in place new management teams. The
revenues of supported cooperatives have witnessed a significant increase in recent years. In all of
the cooperatives visited, membership had also increased in recent years. However, many farmers
are still not members of cooperatives due to mistrust, a lack of understanding of the purpose and
benefits of cooperative membership, as well as financial barriers to membership. With the
54
   The following section is a summary taken from Volume 2 of the Impact Assessment Study carried out for RSSP 2 by an
independent evaluation team “RSSP 2 Performance Indicators Update and Impact Assess ment: Volume 2: Impact Assessment,
prepared by the Oxford Policy anagement? . For further details, see the complete study (Volumes 1 and 2). Volume 1 focuses
on assessing the results framework achievements, and Volume focuses on the stakeholder assessment, using sound qualitative
and quantitative methods.

                                                           55
support received from RSSP 2, beneficiary cooperatives develop fast in terms of asset
accumulation and thereby entry barriers. It is important that alternative mechanisms are found to
ensure that poorer households are not excluded from joining beneficiary cooperatives in the
future. Some supported cooperatives already allow the payment of membership fees in
installments, or after the harvest. Such initiatives should be encouraged and further developed by
RSSP.

6.      Training. RSSP 2 provided training in various areas, such as cooperative organization,
crop intensification, and water management, among others. The project adopted a Training of
Trainers approach to teaching farmers. Initially training was provided to Local Service Providers,
which in turn trained lead farmers. The lead farmers subsequently trained farmer groups within
their cooperatives. In general farmers understood the practicality of the Training of Trainers
approach and were content with this mode of training. An overwhelming majority of farmers
found the training to be very useful and one of the main factors in improving their standard of
living.

7.      Training provided by RSSP was stated as one of the key factors in increasing agricultural
output. Farmers argued that it was not only the inputs but also rather the knowledge on which,
how, and when the inputs were combined and used that resulted in increased output. When asked
whether all the training received was applied to their day-to-day activities, the majority of
farmers reported to have applied most of the training they had received. Furthermore, most
farmers had already seen the benefits of these methods and felt they could never go back to
farming with previously used, traditional methods. Nevertheless farmers felt that training needed
to be a continuous process with repeated follow-ups to ensure full integration and application by
all farmers.

8.                                 All of RSSP 2’s activities discussed above have the aim of
improving agricultural productivity and thereby improving the quality of life of supported
households and revitalizing the rural economy. Interviews with farmers suggested that their
yields had increased in recent years. Those increases were attributed to the support provided by
RSSP 2 on infrastructure as well as the use of modern technologies and improved inputs.

9.       RSSP 2 encouraged the use of modern agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and
pesticides. In marshlands 86 percent of households and in hillsides 69 percent buy chemical
fertilizers, a substantially higher number than non-beneficiaries (30 percent). A similar pattern
can be found for purchases of pesticides: 73 percent of RSSP-supported households purchase
pesticides, compared to only 32 percent of non-beneficiary households. Beneficiaries also make
frequent use of certified seed. As a result of increased use of modern inputs and knowledge of
improved farming techniques, RSSP-supported farmers use their land more productively than the
average non-beneficiary household.

10.     Furthermore, RSSP and its supported cooperatives aim to provide better market access to
cooperative members and encourage the commercialization of production. This aim has been
achieved. Supported rice farmers sell 74 percent of their rice harvest; in the case of maize this is
64 percent. Almost all RSSP-supported households selling part of their harvest do so primarily
via the cooperatives (77–81 percent). However, interviews also suggest that finding markets for

                                                56
maize and potatoes remains problematic in some cases. Farmers believed the prices offered to be
low but had no alternative buyers to consider. The annual income derived from sales for RSSP
marshland and hillside households was RWF 225,000–262,000, but only RWF 60,000 among the
comparison group. Table 1 presents summary indicators that characterize households’ crop
production activities and sales.

                         Table 1: Key Characteristics of Crop Production
                                                 Treatment   Treatment Group:      Comparison
                                                  Group:          Hillside           Group
                                                 Marshland
Mean amount of land (in are) cultivated in the      60.9            76.1               55.6
last 12 months per HH
Mean total crop productivity (RWF per are)         9,341           8,430               5,632
Share of total crop production sold                 51.0            44.3                21.4
Mean total value of sales from crop production    225,323         261,675             59,726
in past 12 months

11.     Economic activity. Almost all of the rural population—both RSSP and non-RSSP
households—is engaged in the agricultural sector either on their own or on someone else’s
farm). When it comes to signaling respondents’ main jobs however there are substantial
differences. In beneficiary households, more than 90 percent of both male and female working
household members were engaged in agriculture in their main job. In the comparison (non-
RSSP) group, higher proportions of working men find their main occupation outside the
agricultural sector.

12.    Very few members of RSSP-supported households have a main job working for a wage
on someone else’s farm unlike those in the comparison group for whom this is more frequently
the case. Only 10–14 percent of those working mainly on the family farm supplement family
farm work with agricultural wage labor elsewhere. In the comparison group, this level is much
higher at 35–37 percent.

13.    It seems that among RSSP-supported households, the family farm generates sufficient
labor demand (and income) to keep almost all household members occupied there as a main job.
Only a few household members seek additional sources of income outside the family farm.

14.                                                         RSSP-supported households both in
hillsides and marshlands are more likely than the comparison group to use an improved source of
drinking water (79–83 percent, compared to only 71 percent in the comparison group).
Furthermore, 12 percent of households from RSSP-supported marshland cooperatives are
connected to electricity, and 6 percent of hillside households, but only 3 percent of the
comparison group. Beneficiary households are also more likely to own key household durables
such as mobile phones, beds, or bicycles.

15.     Qualitative findings indicate that RSSP beneficiaries felt they were better able to send
their children to school. However, RSSP support has no significant effect on school attendance.
This finding suggests that comparison group households are not more likely to let their children
drop out of school, even if they encounter difficulties in funding. The coverage of health
insurance among people supported by RSSP is higher than in non-beneficiary households. As a
                                                  57
result of health insurance as well as possibly better ability to afford health-related consultations,
the proportion of ill persons consulting a medical practitioner is also higher in the treatment
group.

16.     Households headed by women are underrepresented among RSSP beneficiary
households. Beneficiary households also have a lower proportion of adults who have no
education or have not completed primary school. This finding can probably be explained by the
better capacity of more educated households to join cooperatives, especially RSSP-supported
cooperatives, as they understand the potential benefits more easily. A slightly higher level of
education could also have been a pre-treatment characteristic of those cooperatives that decided
to apply for RSSP support in the first place. Likewise, female-headed households might face
constraints in labor capacity that makes them less willing or able to join. Without a pre-treatment
baseline, no targeting analysis is possible, but the implications of these findings should be further
investigated by RSSP as it moves ahead.

17.                                RSSP-supported households make frequent use of established
financial institutions (68% of beneficiary HHs) for saving and borrowing, and they often do so to
invest in the development of their livelihoods. In contrast, comparison households rely primarily
on informal sources of financial services (54% against 23% for RSSP beneficiary HHs), and they
are driven to borrow mainly by the need to cover day-to-day household expenses. Majority
(83%) HHs of RSSP hillside beneficiary hold a savings account, while in the comparison group
only 34% HHs had an account.

18.     Wellbeing                      . RSSP beneficiaries had a general impression that life
had improved over recent years. Respondents pointed to several features signaling this
improvement, including the ability to buy new clothes and shoes, renovate houses, own
household durables and livestock, and eat different and better types of food. On nutrition in
particular, some areas had previously experienced famine, and respondents felt quite strongly
that they would not experience such famine again. In most cases, they credited RSSP with this
rise in their standard of living as well as a greater sense of self-confidence and well-being
overall.

19.    The OPM study found some limited negative impacts on community relations due to the
introduction of RSSP. In general the relationship between RSSP-supported cooperative members
and non-members had not changed significantly. There was, however, a small element of
jealousy for RSSP-supported cooperative members.

20.     The general feeling was that RSSP-supported cooperative members were now much
better off than non-beneficiary farmers and that their standard of living was improving faster.
This is an important issue for consideration by RSSP in relation to both its ongoing activities and
its future interventions. Effort should be made and planning undertaken to ensure that welfare
gaps are not exacerbated.

21.




                                                 58
22.                                                In conclusion, RSSP 2 has been very effective in
achieving its proclaimed targets. It has successfully conveyed knowledge, services, and
infrastructure to the recipient cooperatives and households, thereby significantly improving the
productivity and quality of life among the supported population. There is a risk that supported
households could leave non-beneficiaries behind, however. Limited spillovers and the risk of
increasing entry barriers contribute to this problem. This problem could exacerbate
socioeconomic gaps and tensions in the community. RSSP interventions should consider this
issue in relation to current and future activities.

23.    The main areas identified for further consideration by RSSP and the supported
cooperatives are:

          Extend post-harvest facilities to keep up with increased production.
          Further improve access to reliable and profitable markets.
           Avoid leaving non-beneficiaries behind: Encourage the transfer of knowledge, reduce
           entry barriers to supported cooperatives, or make key support elements accessible to
           farmers who are not members of RSSP-supported cooperatives.
          For RSSP 3, plan for a pre-treatment baseline study to allow for rigorous impact
           evaluation techniques to be applied. RSSP can be considered an excellent driving
           force in Rwanda’s endeavors to invigorate its rural markets as well as to improve
           productivity and the commercialization of farming. It is hoped that this experience
           can be built upon and expanded even more widely in rural Rwanda in the future.




                                                59
Annex 6: ICR Mission Summary - Findings from Beneficiary & Stakeholder Consultations
                           (November/December 2012)

Objective

1.       The primary purpose of the beneficiary and stakeholder consultations and stakeholder
workshop was to seek and validate direct feedback from the project participants and other
stakeholders related to their views of concrete results (especially outcomes) and lessons learned
from RSSP 2. The OPM has carried out an extensive consultation process to provide input for
the impact assessment study (late 2011/early 2012), using both qualitative and quantitative
methods. The ICR mission consultation drew on relevant findings from the OPM report, checked
its reliability, and validated and deepened some of the conclusions and findings. The mission
used the consultation and results as inputs for drafting the ICR for RSSP 2, enhancing the
implementation of RSSP 3 and developing INAGRI’s scaling-up strategy as part of its
emerging PSTA 3.

2.       This Annex has three sections:

         (a) Methodological Aspects: Framework For Beneficiary and Stakeholder Consultation
             and Feedback During the ICR Mission.
         (b) Stakeholder Consultations (Field Visits during November 29–December 1, 2012).
         (c) Stakeholder Consultations (held in Kigali, on December 5, 2012).

(a) Methodological Aspects: Framework For Beneficiary and Stakeholder Consultation
and Feedback During the ICR Mission

Focus Themes that Were Probed and Validated

3.      The OPM impact assessment has looked into the achievement of key performance and
outcome indicators and the functioning of community institutions (small groups, farmer
organizations, and cooperatives). The target indicators were exceeded. Even so, greater
clarification was to build on the OPM report and highlight lessons learned. During the ICR
consultations, more information and probing was sought in the following key areas:

        The roles of various community institutions (such as small groups, farmer organizations,
         cooperatives, and so forth). The team gave particular attention to key characteristics such
         as their purpose, structure, process, rules and guidelines, participation, and accountability.
         What made some farmer groups and cooperatives function effectively and succeed, while
         others struggled?
        Inclusion and exclusion. The OPM report found that many farmers have not joined
         cooperatives owing to entry barriers such as mistrust or a poor understanding of the
         purpose and benefits of membership. As one of the goals of the RSSP APL is poverty
         reduction, it was important to probe into how the inclusion/exclusion issue might be
         addressed in RSSP 3. More information was sought on the relationship between gender
         and benefits and participation under RSSP 2. Although women were project


                                                  60
         beneficiaries, greater insight is needed to ensure that their participation is active and
         effective.
        Finally, several aspects of sustainability were examined—such as the sustainability of
         capacity instilled through the project, financial and economic sustainability, and the
         project’s exit strategy—in relation to ensuring that project benefits could be sustained.

Methodology

4.      The stakeholder consultation workshop built on and complemented the methodology used
during the OPM survey (see Appendix 1 to this Annex). The ICR mission made field visits to
project sites and held focus group discussions with diverse primary beneficiaries and other local
stakeholders. These discussions helped to validate and deepen findings from the OPM
assessment. For each focus group discussion at the village level, the beneficiaries primarily
consisted of two groups. Group 1 consisted of members of small groups and cooperatives,
including lead farmers, who had benefited from project interventions, and beneficiaries who
were not members of cooperatives. Group 2 consisted of office bearers of cooperatives, such as
presidents, accountants, and secretaries.

5.      The questions that guided group discussions were the need for and purpose of forming
cooperatives, the processes followed, specific roles and responsibilities, and support received for
capacity development. In addition to the beneficiary feedback and discussions, the ICR team
participated in a workshop with other stakeholders from the government, private sector, and local
NGOs, seeking their feedback on the key strengths and weaknesses of the project, lessons
learned, and recommendations to sustain benefits and improve the implementation of RSSP 3.

(b) Stakeholder Consultations (Field Visits)55

6.      The ICR team visited RSSP 2 sites during November 29–December 1, 2012. The teams
visited the southern and eastern regions, covering a total of about 14 districts and 16
cooperatives, and visited officials from district government. The primary purpose of the field
visits and community interaction was to get project participants’ and beneficiaries’ views on
RSSP 2’s concrete achievements areas that needed more attention and improvement and lessons
that could be useful as the project’s third phase moves forward.

7.       For most of the workshop, participants were divided into thematic groups, based on the
main activities in which they were involved and the benefits they received. Each group
facilitated testimonials from all participants and established a group consensus to be presented.
Some groups used the testimonials to identify average benefits across the group. This section
highlights the main responses to four key guiding topics: 56 (i) project achievements, (ii) issues
and problems, (iii) recommendations for improvement, and (iv) lessons learned.

55
   The SPIU and Bank team visited RSSP 2 sites in the southern and eastern regions and held discussions with local government
officials as well. This annex highlights findings from stakeholders’ responses to four key guide questions. The views expressed in
the focus groups are considered to reflect patterns among a wider number of beneficiaries.
56
   The four guiding questions were: (1) What were RSSP’s main strength/benefits? (2) What were key issues/problems in design
and during implementation? (3) What were the top 3-4 improvements beneficiaries would like to do to ensure enhancement and
sustainability of their benefits and also to give advice to other future beneficiary communities? (4) What were the main lessons
learned—what worked well and what and what are suggestions for improvement and scaling up?

                                                               61
(i) Key strengths and achievements

 a) Provided best/improved practices in agronomy, which generated significant impacts
    (productivity and income levels), including paradigm changes (through, for example,
    training, visits to other cooperatives, access to finance, and new business plans).
 b) Promoted women’s empowerment: Women are more confident in joining cooperatives
    getting access to finance, making decisions, and leadership. Fifty percent of those elected
    to positions in cooperatives were women. en expressed the e ual value of women’s
    input. The ratio of women to men in one cooperative was 2 to 1.
 c) Enabled beneficiaries to move from subsistence farming to commercial farming. For
    example, banana producers had enhanced yields and quality and better access to markets
    (considering that previously many farmers did not market any or very little produce.
 d) Imparted better planning skills:
     Many cooperatives improved their planning skills, especially for strategic and business
        planning, including the motivation to meet their own objectives and targets. Over time,
        this capacity may enable district targets to be set in a more consultative manner.
     Lead farmers, who trained farmers in improved agricultural practices, were motivated
        by the recognition from other farmers.
     Many farmers benefiting from the project used their enhanced financial planning skills
        to support household budget decisions.
 e) Enhanced marketing skills, including: selling paddy through bidding, with active support
    from the project such as a “minimum? market price storing paddy in project-financed
    storage facilities if prices were too low); negotiating better prices, including extensive use
    of cell phones; funding local service providers (through project support) to provide relevant
    training to beneficiary cooperatives; providing enhanced packaging methods, which
    brought higher market prices. A key challenge is for RSSP 3 to tap into the enhanced
    capacity of local service providers to help scale up capacity building for cooperatives (for
    example, use local service providers in new sites to train lead farmers or to provide
    ongoing training, assuming cooperatives have the capacity to pay them).
 f) For rice cooperatives, the marshland rehabilitation schemes enabled significantly improved
    production and generated employment. The main source of higher yields was increased,
    more reliable, and efficient use of water (including the role of newly established and
    strengthened WUAs), because it facilitated two cropping seasons and higher yields in both.
    Spillover effects of marshland rehabilitation increased yields on hillside plots. Area
    cultivated increased significantly owing to the rehabilitated areas. The introduction of
    increased fish production via use of the dams, improved nutrition and cooperative
    revenues. The Introducion of SRI fostered increased productivity through the use of less
    but better quality rice seed and more productive agronomic practices.
 g) Expanded post-harvest infrastructure had different effects on the marketing of increased
    crop production (increasing proportions of produce were bulked and sold) and enabled
    cooperatives to attain improved quality and prices. Many cooperatives observed that
    production had outstripped the available drying bays, and expressed their willingness to use
    their own resources to expand the drying bays. Many farmers noted that infrastructure had
    helped to reduce post-harvest loses (by as much as 15 percent, according to a recent post-
    harvest survey).

                                               62
h) Strengthened cooperatives in terms of increased community inclusion, unity, and harmony,
   and an improved environment of caring for each other (for example, facilitating
   cooperative membership through lower membership payment levels, and through
   installments). In some cases, cooperative leaders recruit members in adjoining areas. Other
   examples included community-organized cooperative work (for terracing, canal
   maintenance, community work (muganda, school construction); promoting enhanced trust
   and unity to work together; carrying out activities on a timely basis; building assets;
   promoting participatory decision-making; a commitment to implement agreed decisions;
   and improved monitoring of decisions by the general assembly.
i) Expanded training and community-to-community exposure visits. For example, this kind of
   capacity development enabled several banana cooperatives to enhance marketing practices;
   other cooperatives learned specific crop production practices, improved the management of
   their cooperatives, and increased their awareness of the value of post-harvest infrastructure.
   Cross-visits such as a visit to Northern Province to learn about yields of 40 t per hectare of
   Irish potatoes generated benefits for the visiting and visited groups. The use of lead farmers
   to help train others, and visits to other countries also generated benefits (for example, a
   visit to Kenya focused on water users, and a visit to Uganda focused on rice marketing and
   beekeeping).
j) Promoted the adoption and benefits of mobilizing savings. Saving groups enhanced their
   ability to pay health insurance and school fees. Kayuma cooperative purchased a truck to
   enhance their marketing; several cooperatives purchased shares in a newly established rice
   mill. Others learned the value of savings, even small amounts. Many farmers said that they
   “felt good and proud and empowered? to deposit and withdraw money from their newly
   established savings accounts. Farmers organized in groups to access loans. The stakeholder
   discussions revealed a positive linkage between membership in a cooperative and gaining
   access to individual loans.
k) Enabled improved household assets. Examples include the rehabilitated of houses and
   purchases of motorbikes, livestock (starting with a cow), mattresses, mobile phones, house
   appliances, and sewing machines and other tools to operate a small business such as a shop,
   metal welding, or hairdressing).
l) Enhanced food security. Beneficiary farmers could have and eat rice on a regular basis, eat
   two meals instead of zero or one, and generally improve consumption and nutrition
   (including increased consumption of meat, vegetables, fish, milk, and other foods).
m) Promoted enhanced erosion control on hillsides, including the increased use of terraces on
   hillsides surrounding the rehabilitated marshlands; land not previously used, thereby
   enabling increased crop production; fodder as animal feed; compost and use of trees; a
   good menu of enhanced technology options, enabling increased productivity and reduced
   siltation of marshland canals. Erosion control brought double benefits through the
   expanded use of abandoned lands (through terracing) and reduced erosion control
   downstream.
n) Diversified activities for generating off-farm income, such as fish, rabbits, honey, goats,
   cows, chickens, and vegetable/kitchen gardens. Introduced new business ideas, including:
   household poultry enterprises, opening retail stores for rice (Ntende), women making
   handicrafts (through their associations). Expanded land/crop consolidation in banana,
   maize, Irish potatoes, beans, and wheat. And aatalyzed off-farm activities, including



                                              63
     establishment of small family enterprises for income diversification; examples include
     motor-taxis and small shops (tailoring, catering).
  o) Enhanced cooperative management, financial management (use of internal auditors; firing
     incompetent /inefficient management; addressing corruption issues, although not common
     practice); management of produce (associated with improved governance/accountability of
     cooperatives, where members demand these improvements). There is evidence that the
     project has avoided “elite-capture? in the project’s activities which has been enabled
     through the use of various mechanisms (for example, to ensure that the distribution of
     marshland is equitable and transparent, based on clear selection criteria that favor landless
     farmers).
  p) Improved linkages to financial institutions (such as savings and credit cooperatives, BPR,
     BK, and KCB), for cooperatives and groups of farmers rather than just individual farmers.
  q) Created jobs, some temporary (through construction; also labor shortages that emerged
     during peak cropping seasons were alleviated through the use of community labor groups)
     and some permanent (through crop intensification and the recruitment of professionals to
     staff cooperatives).

(ii)    Key issues/problems in design or implementation

  a) Limited and insufficient post-harvest infrastructure. Production increases outstripped
     marketing infrastructure provided by the project;
  b) Mechanization was missing in RSSP 2 and should be included in RSSP 3. For example,
     rice production was labor intensive, and they need to have labor-saving technologies.
  c) Training that was intended to be synchronized with critical crop stages was at times
     delayed, thereby limiting the potential benefits (for example, training in improved fertilizer
     application techniques).

(iii)   Recommendations for improvement

8.      The key priorities that beneficiaries would like to highlight to ensure enhancement and
sustainability of their benefits, which can also serve as advice to future beneficiary communities,
included:

  a) Transfer/share enhanced knowledge. Knowledge transfer would play a key role in
     reinforcing/ensuring sustainability of benefits. Some farmers stated: “Knowledge can be
     kept/expanded and not taken away.? They attributed their increased yields partly to the
     enhanced knowledge obtained from the project. Farmers also recognized that an integrated
     package of project-supported interventions generated the increased benefits.
  b) Be ambitious with regard to diversifying crops and income-generating activities (on and off
     of the farm).
  c) Encourage youth participation. Include youth in the cooperative training, since they are the
     “future? leaders of the cooperatives. any older youth worked for contractors on project
     schemes and many were allocated irrigated marshland.
  d) Promote a common vision to be shared by all cooperative members, backed by sound
     business plans (although most cooperatives seemed to have lacked strategic plans) and
     commitment to professional management and performance standards. All cooperatives

                                                64
       expressed the intention to strengthen and expand their cooperatives to be financially viable;
       all cooperatives have paid staff. Remuneration is competitive to attract and retain
       competent staff. Many cooperatives have fired incompetent staff/management.
  e)   Promote good and sustained cooperative management and governance (equivalent to
       “strong? leadership and Integrate enhanced technologies in cooperative management.
       Cooperative members expressed satisfaction with their current leadership, while keeping
       high standards of performance. They have taken action if management has not been good.
       All cooperatives that are certified and comply with cooperative audit practices have
       internal and external auditors, as well as community monitoring and supervision. Members
       recognize the value of the audit processes and community supervision.
  f)   Promote continuous sensitization of farmers to the benefits of becoming a member of a
       cooperative and WUA, and to facilitating meeting and flexible membership requirements.
       Cooperative members recognized the importance of reducing entry barriers (such as large
       entry fees, which have been reduced in most cooperatives, and which are allowed in
       installments) so that there is inclusion of all members, including the poorest and most
       vulnerable. Small groups have also formed within each cooperative to enhance
       cohesiveness and inclusion. All farmers interviewed recognized the importance of WUAs
       and their complementarity with cooperatives;
  g)   Training in market development. Many farmers recognized the need to develop cooperative
       marketing skills to become more competitive.
  h)   Build and maintaining infrastructure to expand access to markets, market spaces, and
       processing factories (for example, buy shares in rice mills and other processing plants).
       Improve access roads to cooperatives to enhance marketing costs/efficiencies.
  i)   Diversify activities. Invest in different income-generating activities, such as a hotel (in
       partnership with other investors), fish farming, honey production, rabbit raising; and
       ecotourism, including camp grounds.
  j)   Ensure ability to pay cooperative staff salaries. Thus far, the project-supported cooperatives
       have been able to pay staff salaries (including an agronomist, accountant, manager) on a
       regular basis, without sustained project support. Also, farmers must be able to pay for their
       inputs every season, including the establishment of a fertilizer revolving fund, so as not to
       depend on the project.
       Cooperative members recognized the important role of securing continued support from
       local leaders and service agencies, such as RAB, RCA, and district officials.

(iv)    Lessons Learned

9.      Key lessons for scaling up include:

  a) It is possible to get high yields from a small area. A small area developed with improved
     farming practices such as use of fertilizer, improved seed, timely weeding, and erosion
     control can generate higher yields than farming a large area utilizing traditional practices.
  b) It is important to have an explicit strategy and criteria for allocating limited resources, in
     line with an overall strategy (this was reflected in the case of this project, such as the land
     allocation in the marshland schemes, cooperative training activities, business plans).
  c) Good working relations between cooperative and local authorities lead to satisfactory and
     mutually beneficial results.

                                                 65
     d) Timely changes of bad/ineffective cooperative leadership/management improve trust and
        participation by cooperative beneficiaries.
     e) Ownership (broad-based participation and decision-making) of cooperative activities/assets
        by beneficiaries leads to good and quick benefits and sustainability;
     f) It is important to respect/perform the calendar of planting, fertilizer application, weeding.
           any farmers emphasized that “timing is everything.?
     g) Proper maintenance of infrastructure are critical, and one should not wait until it breaks
        down. Take preventive steps by training members and strengthening O&M arrangements
        (for example, WUA).
     h) A water distribution and management plan leads to efficient use of water by marshland
        beneficiaries, forestalls conflicts, builds a strong cooperative, and sustains benefits.
     i) Unity and good collaboration between association members (or equivalent small groups) of
        the cooperative help to achieve cooperative targets and foster harmonious working
        relations.
     j) Growing one crop (monoculture) on consolidated land, or crop specialization (based on
        sound technical advice), adapted to an area, with adequate farming techniques (based on a
        menu of options), generates higher yields and enhanced marketing prospects than
        traditional intercropping in an unconsolidated area. This strategy has evolved over time. It
        is easier to achieve in marshland areas than hillsides, due to land ownership and provision
        of a common good.57
     k) It is important to work with banks to get sustained access to finance.

(v) Stakeholder Consultations

10.    In addition to the workshop and beneficiary feedback, the ICR mission also participated
in stakeholder consultations in Kigali on December 5, 2012. 58 Participants came from the
government, private sector, and local NGOs. Feedback was sought on key strengths and
weaknesses of the project, lessons learned, and recommendations to sustain benefits and improve
implementation of RSSP 3. From the perspective of these key stakeholders, the main strengths,
weaknesses, and lessons learned are summarized in the sections that follow.

(vi) Key strengths/benefits of the project

     a) Capacity building of participating local service providers and NGOs was beneficial in that
        they used those skills to impart various kinds of training to beneficiary cooperatives and
        farmers, including enabling the Board of Directors of cooperatives to be more effective.


57
   RSSP 2 sponsored a land consolidation study that helped underpin this production and intensification strategy, in line with
PSTA 2 strategies being promoted at the national level. In the initial years of RSSP 2, it appeared that the government had
mandated certain crops, but INAGRI’s strategy is evolving as seen in the unfolding PSTA 3 to encourage farmers to make
their own crop choices, based on agroclimatic and market considerations and advice provided by extension workers and lead
farmers.
58
   A stakeholder consultation workshop was organized by the SPIU inviting “representative? stakeholders from beneficiary
farmer cooperatives, local service providers for RSSP 2, collaborating central government ministries/agencies (including the
Ministry of Finance and Planning, MINAGRI/RBA, Rwanda Cooperative Agency, Ministry of Trade, private sector
(participating banks, rice millers). The main methodology followed was focus group discussion, in two parallel groups, with
mixed composition, based on the same four guide questions. Many responses followed consistent patterns found during the field
visits highlighted above.

                                                             66
 b) Farmers trained by these NGOs and local service providers dramatically changed their
    mindsets and now have a much stronger market orientation. These farmers increased their
    knowledge and skills in agricultural technology practices, and cooperatives increased their
    knowledge and skills in business practices, plans, and farmer organization.
 c) Land consolidation and crop specialization have increased farmers’ incomes from
    agriculture and expansion of area under cultivation through the marshland irrigation
    schemes generated substantial benefits to beneficiary farmers and cooperatives.
 d) The project fostered strong cooperatives, which played a key role in providing improved
    livelihoods to members.
 e) The project enabled adoption of improved agricultural techniques and post-harvest
    management.
 f) RSSP 2-initiated WUAs have become successful and effective in ensuring adequate O&M
    of marshland irrigation schemes.
 g) The project contributed to poverty reduction, as reflected by measurable indicators.
 h) Farmers gained greater access to financial products (beneficiaries accessed the RIF, a
    separate source of funds for rural investments). The project linked farmers to local banks,
    which perceived farmers as having lower risks than they had thought “farmers got closer
    to local banks? . And the project created trust between farmers and financial institutions in
    that the institutions were comfortable to finance agriculture.
 i) Temporary and permanent employment was created (for example, temporary work in the
    construction/rehabilitation stage and permanent jobs through project-induced crop
    intensification).
 j) Contractors gained experience in marshland development, which is being scaled up in other
    parts of Rwanda and dependence on international companies to carry out construction was
    reduced through the project.
 k) The project fostered development of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), increased
    competition among contractors, and increased turnover/revenues for participating
    contractors (enabling them to expand their operations in Rwanda).

(vii) Key issues/problems in design or implementation observed during implementation

 a) Initially there were some challenges in convincing farmers of the benefits of growing
    paddy rice; as farmers saw the benefits from rice-growing farmers, they became convinced.
 b) Generally the biggest implementation challenge is that some contractors don’t respect the
    time-frame in the contract (although this problem was overcome toward the last year of
    implementation). And variation in prices for construction materials was another challenge.

(viii) Top recommendations that participants would like to make to ensure that benefits are
enhanced and sustained and that can serve as advice to future beneficiary communities:

 a) RCA has decentralized to the district level to support continued strengthening of the
    beneficiary and non-beneficiary cooperatives. There was a consensus that it can take an
    average of three years of capacity building and technical support (from RCA) to ensure that
    cooperatives become sustainable entities, capable of managing and diversifying viable
    enterprises.


                                              67
 b) The Ministry of Natural Resources should set up a catchment committee (covering the
    whole watershed).
 c) Issue water permits under which all water users pay the agreed rate to sustain the irrigation
    schemes.
 d) Recommend using the National Agricultural Export Development Board program to
    protect and monitor planted fruit trees and agro-forestry trees to ensure hillside protection.
 e) Empowerment of men and women through capacity building should continue.
 f) The WUAs that have been established will ensure sustainability of infrastructure.
 g) Investment and diversification of commodity and non-farm activities.

(ix)   Lessons Learned: Why did project activities/practices work well? What are suggestions
for improvement and scaling up?

 a) Hillside protection should be done comprehensively (consider the whole watershed) and
    agroforestry trees planted on hillsides should be monitored until maturity.
 b) Good selection of crops, especially vegetables (choosing spices over bulky vegetables).
 c) Contract farming in vegetables would work well.
 d) Selection of good seeds leads to better quality and quantity of paddy.
 e) Introduction of WUAs is an effective instrument for sustaining the operation and
    maintenance of irrigation infrastructure.




                                               68
                                                                                                    Appendix 1

         RSSP-2 – Performance Indicators: Update and Impact Assessment Vol. 2
     Overview of the Methodology for the Impact Assessment: Qualitative Assessment 59


1.      Overview. The Impact Assessment carried out by the OPM team used a mixed-methods
approach combining qualitative and quantitative research techniques to assess impact and trace it
to the RSSP project. Extensive Focus Group Discussions with beneficiaries and non-
beneficiaries were held to analyze recipients’ perceptions of the project as well as its impact.
Furthermore, key informant interviews were held to support findings from local government
officials, cooperative management, and RSSP and MINAGRI staff.

2.     Findings from the qualitative research are supported by estimates from a quantitative
survey undertaken among 1,300 RSSP-supported households. The survey provides a
representative picture of the situation among marshland and hillside households. In addition, this
report contains analysis of selected households from the EICV3 data, which serve as a
comparison group for the estimates obtained for RSSP-supported households and places the
findings into the context of rural Rwanda. It is important to note that without a pre-treatment
baseline (as well as the fact that RSSP selected the cooperatives for support based partly on
systematic criteria, which this Impact Assessment is unable to replicate among any comparison
group), differences between quantitative estimates cannot be rigorously defined as the “impact?
of the project. Instead, the quantitative analysis establishes a robust situation analysis for both
RSSP beneficiaries and non- RSSP beneficiaries and comparison of the two provides further
support for the evidence found through qualitative research. It is only through this mixed-
methods approach that impact can be attributed.




59
 Extract/synthesis taken from RSSP2 Performance Indicators Update and Impact Assessment – Volume 2. © Oxford Policy
Management (February, 2012).

                                                        69
     Annex 7: Summary of the Government of Rwanda’s ICR and Comments on Draft ICR


1.


       “We are in agreement with the findings and ratings of the Implementation Completion
       and Results report for Rwanda Second Sector Support Project (RSSP II) and appreciate
       the support rendered to the Ministry and the Rwandan people through the project.

       RSSP II has tremendously changed farmers' socioeconomic life in a short period of
       time and contributed to; the country's GDP, food security, increased farmers income,
       reduced poverty and enabled farmers to save for the future to mention but a few
       achievements.

       A trip to the country side where the project is implemented tells its story not only
       because of the transformed marshes and dams dotting the countryside, but also the
       emerging trading centers and processing facilities. The Ministry believes that the
       successes and challenges of RSSP II have informed the design of RSSP III in a manner
       that will lead to more poverty reduction and even better incomes for farmers going
       forward.

       I take this opportunity to thank the World Bank for its commitment to the people of
       Rwanda and to thank your office in particular for the good working relationship and
       strong support given to the project and to the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal
       Resources.?


Summary of GoR’s ICR

2.      Executive Summary (from ICR of November 2012). The Rural Sector Support Project
(RSSP) is currently in phase two, with the overarching goal of accelerating the pace of
intensification and commercialization of agricultural production. The project is funded by an
International Development Association (IDA) grant in the amount of US$35 million, plus a
government counterpart contribution of US$ 2 million. The PDO is to increase agricultural
production and marketing in marshland and hillside areas targeted for development under the
project in an environmentally sustainable. RSSP 2 was planned to run from October 22, 2008 to
October 31, 2012 and has three components: (i) Marshlands and Hillsides Rehabilitation and
Development, (ii) Strengthening Commodity Chains, and (iii) Project Coordination and Support.
The implementation of the project activities has progressed very well, as presented in the table
below.

60
   For further details, see the complete ICR prepared by the Government of Rwanda (dated November 2011). The government
intends to update their ICR, although it is not foreseen that much of the content will be revised since the project essentially
completed its activities by the end of 2012. The Bank’s ICR was prepared in close collaboration with the SPIU team hence
reflects an updated assessment, with valuable inputs provided by the SPIU team.

                                                             70
                   Table 1: Project Achievements Component 1 and 2 Indicators
Intermediate Outcome Indicators                                                 Project achievements 31 Dec. 2011
Component 1: Marshland and Hillside Rehabilitation and Development
By the end of the project, at least 3,300 additional ha of irrigated By December 2011, 3,324 ha of
marshlands have been rehabilitated or developed by the project marshland have been rehabilitated or
(EDPRS/PSTA indicator)                                                          developed (100.7%)
By the end of the project, at least 75 percent of the farmers in irrigated 79%of farmers are paying water charges
marshlands rehabilitated or developed by the project (RSSP 1 and RSSP 2) and WUAs are established in all the
are paying water charges through WUAs                                           marshlands
By the end of the project, at least 9,900 additional ha of hillsides have been 10,096 ha completed 102% have
sustainably developed by the Project (EDPRS/PSTA indicator)                     sustainably developed..
Component 2: Strengthening Commodity Chains
By the end of the project, at least 80 cooperatives supported by the project 81 cooperatives have developed their
have quality business plans under implementation                                business plans
By the end of the project, at least 5 additional cooperatives supported by 15additional cooperatives are marketing
RSSP 2 are marketing certified maize and potato seed                            certified maize and Irish potatoes seeds
By the end of the project, with at least 75 percent of the rural infrastructure
                                                                                To be determined by the Impact
subprojects funded through the LDF, the majority of users are satisfied one
                                                                                Assessment Study
year after the subproject was completed

3.     Because of the good progress of the project implementation program activities and early
attainment of the project objectives, the government and donors have agreed to advance the
closure of the project. RSSP 3 is planned to start next year and will build on the RSSP 2 project
achievements and foundation.




                                                          71
                           Annex 8: Key Supporting Documents

A)     From World Bank:

1. OPCS, Guidelines for Implementation Completion and Results Report (August 2006,
    Updated, 10/05/11)
2. IEG, Implementation Completion Report: An Overview Presentation (orientation workshop,
    2012)
3. Agriculture for Development, 2008 World Development Report. Washington, DC: World
    Bank. 2007
4. RSSP 1 Project Implementation and Completion Report (December 22, 2008)
5. RSSP 2: Project Concept Note (June 2007)
6. RSSP 2: Project Appraisal Document, Second RSSP (June 2, 2008)
7. RSSP 2: Development Grant Agreement (July 2008)
8. RSSP 2 Implementation Status Reports (from 2008 to 2012)
9. RSSP 2 Mission Aide Memoires (from 2008 to 2012)
10. RSSP 2 Aide Memoire for Mid-Term Review and Implementation Support Mission (October
    2010)
11. RSSP 2 ICR: The EFA model in Excel format without @Risk formulas (RSSP 3-related).
    Includes several cases for RSSP 2 and RSSP 3 analyses. Note the Cover Page instruction on
    how to use the model.
12. RSSP 2 ICR: The EFA model in Excel format with @Risk formulas (RSSP 3-related).
    Includes several cases for RSSP 2 and RSSP 3 analyses. Note the Cover Page instruction on
    how to use the model.
13. RSSP 2: Technical Document to Aide Memoire. Mid-Term Review and Implementation
    Support ission for Rwanda’s Second Rural Sector Support Project RSSP 2 . 4-15 October
    2010. World Bank, Washington, DC.
14. RSSP 2 and 3: Aide Memoire. Rural Sector Support Program (RSSP). RSSP 2
    Implementation Support Mission. RSSP 3 Preparation Mission. 25 July–5 August 2011.
    World Bank, Washington, DC.
15. RSSP 3: Aide Memoire. Rural Sector Support Program (RSSP). RSSP 3 Appraisal Mission.
    28 November – 9 December 2011. World Bank, Washington, DC.
16. LWH: Project Appraisal Document for the Rwanda Land Husbandry, Water Harvesting and
    Hillside Irrigation Project. Report No: 50901-RW (2009). World Bank, Washington, DC.
17. BioCarbon Fund Experience: Insights from Afforestation and Reforestation Clean
    Development Mechanism Projects. Report from World Bank Carbon Finance Unit,
    Washington, DC. December 2011.
18. Carbon Sequestration in Agricultural Soils. Economic and Sector Work Report No. 67395-
    GLB. World Bank, Washington, DC.

B)    From the Government of Rwanda/RSSP 2 Project Unit (which were carried out by
independent consultants/teams):

1. RSSP 2 Project Preparation Documents: (mostly prepared in 2007/08)
   (i)   Irrigated Marshlands Development Strategy
   (ii)  Rainfed Hillsides Development Strategy

                                             72
     (iii)    Sustainable Agricultural Intensification Strategy
     (iv)     Capacity Strengthening Strategy
     (v)      Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plans
     (vi)     Environmental and Social Management Framework
     (vii)    Pest Management Plan
     (viii)   Resettlement Policy Framework
     (ix)     Resettlement Action Plans
     (x)      Design of the Rural Investment Facility (RIF)

2. RSSP 2: Project Implementation Manual (June 2008), prepared by the PSCU
3. Soil Testing and Fertilizer Recommendation for various marshlands by Crop Nutrition Kenya
   (2010)
4. Hydrology and Biodiversity for Gisaya, Kinnyogo, Kibaya, and Cyunuzi marshlands by Sher
   Ingénieur Conseil (2009)
5. RSSP 2: Implementation Completion Report (December 2011)
6. Stryker, J.D. Rwanda Rice Commodity Chain: Strategic Options to Maximize Growth and
   Poverty Reduction. Final Report. Rural Sector Support Project II (RSSP II). Republic of
   Rwanda, Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources. August (2010)
7. RSSP 2 Performance Indicators: Update and Impact Assessment (prepared by the Oxford
   Policy Management (UK, February 2012)
   (i)    Volume 1: Performance Indicators Update
   (ii)   Volume 2: Impact Assessment

C)       Other Relevant Documents: (including independent assessments)

1. Belli, P., J. R. Anderson, H.N. Barnum, J.A. Dixon, and J.-P. Tan (1998). Handbook on
   Economic Analysis of Investment Operations. Operational Core Services Network Learning
   and Leadership Center. Washington, DC: World Bank.
2. Falloon P, P. Smith, R. Betts, C.D. Jones, J. Smith, D. Hemming, and A. Challinor (2009).
   “Carbon Se uestration and Greenhouse Gas Fluxes from Cropland Soils – Climate
   Opportunities and Threats.? Chapter 5 in Climate Change and Crops, edited by S.N. Singh.
   DEU: Springer, Berlin/Heidelberg. Pp. 81-111.
3. Fankhauser, S. (1995). Valuing Climate Change: The Economics of the Greenhouse. London:
   Earthscan.
4. Inocencio, A., M. Kikuchi, M. Tonosaki, A. Maruyama, D. Merrey, H. Sally, and I. de Jong
    2005 . “Costs and Performance of Irrigation Projects: A Comparison of Sub-Saharan Africa
   and Other Developing Regions.? International Water anagement Institute IW I .
   Research Report 109. Colombo.




                                              73
                                                                                                           29°30'E                                                      30°00'E                                                     30°30'E                                                       31°00'E

                           RWAN D A                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kafunzo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1°00'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kagitumba
                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                  AKARERE (DISTRICT) CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                              UGANDA                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kikagati

                                  INTARA (PROVINCE) CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kag
                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         era
                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0            10         20       30    40 Kilometers
                                  RIVERS
                                                                                                                                  Kisoro                                                                              Nyagatare
                                  MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                         gitumba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0                  10             20          30 Miles
                                  AKARERE (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES                                                                                                          To                 Muvumba
                                                                                                                                   Kidaho            Butaro            Kabale                                      N YA G A T A R E




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ka
                                  INTARA (PROVINCE) BOUNDARIES                                                                                       Lac
                                                                                                                                 Burera                                                                                                             Lac
                                                                                                 Volcan                                              Burera                                                                               Rwanyakizinga
                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                     Karisimbi      MUSANZA                      BURERA                               Mulindi Gatunda
                                                                                  1°30'S       (4519 m)             Muhoza         Lac                  Kirambo                                                                                                                                                         1°30'S
                                                                                                                               Ruhondo               Cyeru                                                                                               Lac
                                                                                                            Busogo                                                           G ICUMBI                                            Gabiro                 Mikindi
                                                                                                                                                     Kinihira
                                                   29°00'E                                                                                                                                                                        G AT S I B O
                                                                              To
                                                                                                               Mukamira
                                                                                                                                                       NORTH                           Byumba            Gatsibo
                                                                           Rutshuru      RUBAVU
                                                                                                           N YA B I H U           Nemba
                                                                                                                                                 Gakenke                                                                             EAST
                                                                                           Vir
                                                                       To             Rubavu     Kagali                                                                                                                                                              Lac
                                                                      Sake                                      Karago                            PROVINCE                                Kinyami             Kabarore                                              Hago
                                                                          Gisenyi Nyondo
                                                                                               un                                                                    Tare                                      Kiziguru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROVINCE
                                                                                               ga               Muramba                GAKENKE                                                                                                                Lac
                                                                                                                                                                 RULINDO                                                                                   Kivumba
              D E M . R E P.                                                                                         Kabaya      Ngaru
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Muhura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rukara                            Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bugene
                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                     Mbogo                                          Lac                                                  Ihema




                                                                                                                                         Ny
                   OF
                                                                                                    ts.
                                                                                                              Ngororero                                                                                            Muhazi




                                                                                                                                           ab
                                                                                RUTSIRO                                                                Shyorongi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K AY O N Z A




                                                                                                                                           ar
                CONGO                                    La c K ivu                                        NGORORERO                            go                                       GASABO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TA N Z A N I A




                                                                                                                                             no
                                                                                         Murunda
                                                                                                   WEST                                                                      KIGALI CITY                                        Mukarange
                                                                                                 Gihingo                                                                               Ndera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gikoro Rwamagana
                                                                                                   OVINCE
                                                                                               P RRutsiro                             Bulinga
                                                                                                                                                                     Rugenge       KIGALI
                                                                                                                                                      Rukoma                              Kicuro                   Bicumbi Kigabiro                               Lac
            2°00'S                                                                                                             MUHANGA                                                                                                                           Nasho                                                  2°00'S
                                                                                                    Mabanza                                                     NYARUGENGE               KICUKIRO          RWAMAGANA
                                                                                Kibuye                                         Nyamabuye
                                                                                                        Rubengera                                      KAMONYI                                                                                                                Lac
                                                                                                                                            Gitarama                                                                     Lac   Kigarama                        Lac            Mpanga
                                                                                               KARONGI                                                                                                                   Mugesera                           Cywambwe
                                                                                                                                                                            Bugesera     Nyamata                                    Kibungo
                                                                                         Gishyita
                                                                                                                                   RUHANGO                                                      Rilima
                                                                                                           Bwakira                                                                                                        NGOMA                            KIREHE
                                                                                               Ngoma                                                                                       Gashora                    Sake
                                                                                                                                  Masango
                                                                                                                                                     Ruhango                                                                                            Kirehe
                                                                                                                                                                                       BUGESERA
                                                                                                                             Gatagara
                                                                                                                                           N YA N Z A
                                                                    Kagano                                 SOUTH               Nyanza
                                                                                                                                            Busasamana                               Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                   Cyohoha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         g   era
                                                                Rwesero                        N YA M A G A B E                                                                      Sud                       Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                Kamembe N Y A M A S H E K E                         PROVINCE                               Rusatira                                                           Rweru                                         Lusahanga

                                                                                                            Gasaka            Karaba
                                              Cyangugu
                                                                                                                                 HUYE                                                             To
            2°30'S               To                                                        Kitabi          Gikongoro         Karama
                               Walangu                               Rwumba                                                                                                                    Kirundo
                                                                                                                                                GISAGARA
                                                             RUSIZI
                                    To                                                                                         Ngoma
                                 Nyya-Ghezi                                                      Ruramba                                   Butare       Ndora
                                                                                                                    Kibeho                                                                                                                                                    RWANDA
             This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                              yaru




             the Map Design Unit of The                                                                 N YA R U G U R U                        Kanzi
                                                                                                                                                           an




             World Bank. The boundaries,                 Bugarama                                          Munini       Kigembe
                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                            BURUNDI
                                                                                                                                                         Ak




             colors, denominations and
                                                                          Cibitoke
             any other information shown
                                                           To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33471R2
             on this map do not imply, on
             the part of The World Bank                  Cibitoke
             Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                         To               To
             legal status of any territory,
JUNE 2008




                                                                                                                       Kayanza           Ngozi
             or any endorsement or
             acceptance of such
             boundaries.                           29°00'E                                                 29°30'E                                                      30°00'E                                                     30°30'E
