                                                                                                         PUBLIC


                                             AIDE MEMOIRE
                                   Rural Sector Support Program (RSSP)
                                  RSSP 2 Implementation Support Mission
                                       RSSP 3 Preparation Mission
                                           25 July-5 August 2011

A. INTRODUCTION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

1.       From 25 July-5 August 2011, a World Bank and FAO team carried out a double mission for the current
and pipeline phases of the Rural Sector Support Program (RSSP): RSSP 2 and RSSP 3, respectively. The team
was composed of : Loraine Ronchi (Senior Economist , Task Team Leader); Hardwick Tchale (Senior
Agricultural Economist, co-Task Team Leader), Valens Mwumvaneza (Agriculture and Rural Development
Specialist); Noreen Beg (Safeguard Specialist); Svetlana Khvostova (Safeguards Analyst); Edward Bresnyan
(Senior Rural Development Specialist); Thierry Lassalle (Institutional and Value Chain Development Specialist,
FAO); Amadou Soumaila (Lead Irrigation Specialist; FAO); Alberta Mascaretti (Senior Agricultural Officer,
FAO); Toni Kayonga (Operations Officer); Diego Garrido (M&E Specialist); Otieno Ayany (Financial
Management Specialist); Chantal Kajangwe (Procurement Specialist); and Belinda Mutesi (Team Assistant).
Hild Rygnestad (EFA Consultant) provided desk support preparing the RSSP 3 economic and financial analysis
(EFA). The team worked closely with the Government of Rwanda (GoR) RSSP team. Discussions were held
with Dr. Agnes Kalibata (Minister of Agriculture), Mr. Ernest Ruzindaza (Permanent Secretary, MINAGRI);
other Government officials, decentralized Project staff, service providers, and communities (see Annex 1 for
list). The team expresses its appreciation for the assistance provided by those with whom the mission interacted.

2.       The mission objectives were to support the GoR team in the final stages of RSSP 2 implementation and
to jointly prepare RSSP 3 with them. The mission followed up on the RSSP 2 recommendations of the last
implementation support mission at mid-term review (MTR) (See Annex 2) and provided implementation support
for the timely closure of RSSP 2. Specific objectives for the preparation of RSSP 3 included: i) to jointly define
the scope of RSSP3; ii) broadly articulate RSSP 3 project components and activities, including an
implementation structure for the proposed merger of LWH and RSSP; iii) clarify to the extent possible the
costing and proposed cost allocations among various components; iv) prepare for all safeguard instruments and
processes; v) complete the initial monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework discussed with GoR in February
2011; and vi) facilitate a workshop for LWH and RSSP M&E units in support of MINAGRI’s proposed
LWH/RSSP implementation merger. The teams also initiated EFA data collection, and reviewed the financial
management and procurement arrangements of the merged LWH /RSSP units. This Aide Memoire reports on
both implementation support outcomes for RSSP 2 and preparation activities for RSSP 3.

B. CONTEXT

3.       The project development objective (PDO) of RSSP 2 is to increase agricultural production and
marketing in marshland and hillside areas targeted for development under the Project in an environmentally
sustainable manner. The Project has three components: (1) Marshlands and Hillsides Rehabilitation and
Development; (2) Strengthening Commodity Chains; and (3) Project Coordination and Support. The
implementation progress of these is reported on in Section C below. Following the conclusions of the MTR in
October 2010 and preliminary RSSP 3 identification activities in February 2011 (see Annex 3), the GoR
requested the advanced closure of RSSP 2 due to early attainment of Project objectives, and the advanced
preparation of RSSP 3. Subsequent to the Spring Meetings of 2011, the GoR formally requested USD 70 million
for RSSP 3. A project concept note (PCN) was prepared and internally reviewed at the World Bank on 21 June
2011. World Bank management authorized the preparation of RSSP 3 and confirmed that the Project would be
prepared using the ‘fast track’ for low risk operations. In May 2011, MINAGRI proposed the Project
Coordinator for RSSP, Ms. Jolly Dusabe, become the joint coordinator for both RSSP and LWH. As documented
in the June 2011 Aide Memoire for the LWH, the World Bank supports, a priori, the proposed implementation
                                                        1
                                                                                                                 PUBLIC


merger between LWH and RSSP as it builds on the merger of the two projects’ procurement and financial
management units since MTR and is in line with the early RSSP 3 discussions with the GoR on the further
merger of the two teams. It was agreed with World Bank management that ‘as per the Financing Agreement (FA)
for both Projects, establishing an “…institutional framework, functions, and resources satisfactory to the
Association, including competent personnel in adequate numbers? called for an assessment of the merger
proposal during the RSSP 3 preparation mission, on which this Aide Memoire reports.

C. KEY FINDINGS/PROGRESS OF IMPLEMENTATION FOR RSSP 2

4.        The mission rates the overall implementation progress (OIP) of RSSP 2 as satisfactory.

Status of Results and Achievement of Development Objectives
5.      As shown by the detailed updated results framework (Annex 4), RSSP continues to have a very robust
performance. On the production side, the mission found that yields in areas that have already been rehabilitated
or developed have at least doubled, with rice yields rising from 3t/ha to more that 6t/ha. The capacity of
cooperatives supported by the Project also shows strong improvements with 35 cooperatives increasing their
revenue by at least 50%, surpassing the project-end target of 20 cooperatives. In addition, the number of
cooperatives marketing certified maize or potato seeds has risen to fully 19, surpassing the original target of nine.
cooperatives. Indicators that are linked to the completion of marshlands and hillsides are fully expected to show
positive results once all works are completed (see below for implementation progress).

Assessment of Implementation Performance for RSSP 2
Component 1: Marshland and Hillside Rehabilitation and Development
6.      As at end of July 2011, 1,574 ha were completed under marshland rehabilitation/development works.
There are currently 1,500 ha under execution (Muvumba 8) and a further 300 ha (Rwagitima) planned.
Contractual deadlines have been exceeded with some contractors due to equipment and contract management
issues. Despite delays in some contractual deadlines, the quality of works and execution of activities for this
component as a whole are found to be satisfactory. See details below.

7.       Upon completion of works under execution and those planned (Rwagitima), the total area developed
under the project would be 3,374 ha. At MTR, the Project had a financing gap of USD4.96 million due to
documented rises in costs outside the Project’s control (see MTR Aide Memoire and MTR Technical Annex).
The MTR suggested a number of options. The Project chose MTR Option 2: (i) postponing development of Cyili
marshland and Kibaya dam to RSSP 3; (ii) dropping Gishoma dam as an RSSP marshland due to technical and
economic infeasibility; and (iii) splitting secondary works on Muvumba VIII marshland for contracting with
local firms. These savings were estimated at MTR to amount to USD5.88 million, closing the USD4.96 million
gap and leaving a Component 1 surplus. Upon execution of these recommendations and budgeting for RSSP 3
feasibility studies for 2,200 ha, the net surplus for Component 1 is currently USD393,751, despite an
unanticipated rise in costs for Muvumba VIII.1 With respect to the latter, it became apparent that the land
leveling work for Muvumba VIII could not be completed using beneficiary contribution (labor) as per the RSSP
approach in other marshlands, and that this work had to be financed by the Project through contracts for works.
The mission team confirms this technical conclusion (see Technical Annex for more detail). The need to contract
primary and secondary leveling for Muvumba results in an additional cost for the marshland of USD2.2 million
for primary leveling and USD1.8 million for secondary leveling using the HIMO approach.2 The GoR has
executed and financed contracts covering the primary leveling. If the HIMO approach is used, the Project budget

1
    Further to savings foreseen at MTR, over USD 70,000 in penalties were paid by delaying contractors.
2
  HIMO represents a high intensity labor approach under technical supervision, used with success in other projects,
including the LWH. The mission concurs with the Project team assessment that HIMO is possible for this work and that it is
the most cost effective option.
                                                            2
                                                                                                           PUBLIC


for Component 1 can cover the increased Muvumba costs and still remain with the surplus above. If mechanized
contracts are used, these would result in a gap for Component 1 of USD306,649, for which there is no financing.
Using the HIMO approach for final leveling, the mission expects RSSP 2 Component 1 activities to be
completed by end of January 2012, including hillsides (scheduled for completion at end- December 2011). This
timeline is acceptable for the RSSP 3 preparation schedule and, given the absence of further available financing
for RSSP 2, the mission recommends the HIMO approach be implemented immediately on Muvubma VII. The
Component 1 surplus should then be used towards financing the SDR exchange rate shortfall (see below).

8.       The Project has implemented all foreseen technical and socioeconomic studies, has launched feasibility
studies for 1,000 ha (Rwinkwavu marshland financed by the GoR) and begun procurement for an additional
2,200 ha (approximately USD1.1 million). The Project has carried out capacity building activities including
training of 12 engineers and numerous artisans in construction and maintenance. The mission finds that the
Irrigation Water Users Associations model presented by RSSP in accordance with a draft Ministerial Order from
MINAGRI (see Technical Annex) establishing WUAs on all Rwandan rehabilitated/developed irrigation
schemes is an adaptation of the international standard WUA. The WUAs will be composed of all marshland
water users and be the only bodies in charge of irrigation water distribution and infrastructure maintenance, as
well as the collection of water service fees. WUAs and cooperatives (in charge of production and marketing
aspects) will be independent entities. Given these key aspects above, the mission concluded that the WUAs, once
registered with legal status by the Ministry of Justice, could be considered legally, institutionally and technically
as WUAs and that the RSSP 2 trigger relating to WUAs would therefore be met. The Project will provide the
World Bank with the final Ministerial Order and WUA registration of RSSP water users with the Ministry of
Justice to complete the negotiations package for the processing of RSSP 3. These formal procedures need to be
completed by end-November 2011. In the process of creating WUAs, training on water distribution and
maintenance has been provided to water use committees in 20 cooperatives composed of 1644 members, but
support to Districts on WUA implementation has not yet taken place.

9.      The project has protected 8356 ha of hillsides under various techniques including progressive and radical
terracing and buffer zone protection through trees and grass planting. The remaining 1544 ha of hillsides to reach
Project-end target of 9,900 ha are expected to be completed by end of December 2011.

Component 2: Strengthening Commodity Chains
10.      RSSP2 has worked with a total of 20 service providers, training 56 of their technicians, and finalizing
training modules distributed to lead farmers and cooperatives. A total of 1,256 lead farmers have undertaken
study tours to experienced cooperatives and 830 cooperative members visited the Agrishow in 2011. While
cooperative performance will be independently evaluated by the impact assessment for RSSP 2 currently under
procurement, the Project estimates that 50 of the 83 cooperatives are relatively strong and well-managed. Out of
these, 15 have received awards from District authorities, the Rwanda Cooperative Agency (RCA), and the
Ministry of Labour for good management and organization. Based on the information provided by the Project
and observations by the Bank technical team during the mission, the mission documents the following significant
results to date: (i) 83 cooperatives assisted in improving their organization (target was 80): 2,445 small groups
formed; governance and management capacity improved; development of business plans benefiting 77,063
cooperative members and their families completed; (ii) 74 of the 83 cooperatives have finalized their business
plans and the remaining 9 cooperatives have prepared drafts which will be finalized by December 2011; (iii)
training of lead farmers (2,890) in improved crop production technologies (using Farmer Field Schools) has
benefitted over 77,000 farmers and resulted in production of about 15,000 t/year of paddy on the 1,574 ha of
marshland under production; and (iv) 27 cooperatives were supported to become certified seed producers (19
achieved). As at MTR, the Project should conduct a light review of the costs and revenues of the seed activity,
as well as that of the business plans financed under RSSP 2. The results of such a review can simultaneously
inform on sustainability and design for RSSP 3.



                                                         3
                                                                                                         PUBLIC


11.      The percentage of users satisfied with rural infrastructure developed by RSSP2 (target is 75%) will be
assessed through the independent impact assessment to be undertaken in the last trimester of 2011. A key
observation of the MTR was for the Project to refine the business-oriented aspects of Component 2’s capacity
building activities, including a review/design of training specifically for marketing committees and initiating
support for cooperatives in analyzing how existing investments can leverage further investments through the
Project’s business plan process. Since MTR, the Project has designed a special module combining the RSSP1
module with material provided by the mission and from other sources (RCA). Three-day training sessions
focusing on market analysis, marketing transaction costs, prospective outlets and product advertising, have been
organized at regional level for all cooperative marketing committee members. It is recommended that such
training be complemented through a series of short refresher training sessions (1-2 days) to keep market
committees updated about market evolution, particularly marketing transaction costs and prospective outlets. On
the second part of the MTR recommendation, concerning how analysis of existing investment can leverage
further investments, this has not been incorporated as of yet. Since MTR, four more cooperatives have accessed
finance through RIF, and a further two have successfully applied for loans from formal financial institutions.

12.     Given the above information, the mission rates this component satisfactory.

Component 3: Project Coordination and Support
13.      Immediately after the MTR for RSSP2, an implementation support mission was held for the LWH
Project in November 2010. During that mission, the World Bank received and assessed the request from
MINAGRI to merge the procurement functions of the LWH and RSSP, as well as those of the two teams’
financial management units. The merger was assessed by World Bank fiduciary teams and the merger took place
over several months. The merged units were subsequently assessed again with attenuate recommendations for
staffing, in subsequent LWH missions (see relevant Aide Memoires). Further observations on the merged units
are found in financial management and procurement sections below. At MTR, it was recommended that the
salary review for RSSP be completed. This was put on hold awaiting the GoR civil service salary reform process
with which MINAGRI wished to rationalize salary structures Ministry-wide. In February 2011, a draft salary
structure was produced by MIFOTRA. The Project has yet to harmonize and update its staff salary structure.
Rather, with the decision to close RSSP early and assess the proposal for a merged implementation team (see
Section B above) with LWH, the Project elected to undertake the revision as part of RSSP 3 preparation. The
mission finds that now that all information is in hand, including a jointly agreed draft implementation structure
for RSSP 3 (see Annex 7), the Project should proceed with a review and update of Project staff salaries. The
mission commends the Project for its smooth interim implementation following the appointment of the RSSP
Project Coordinator as interim manager for both programs. The mission has not found lapses in implementation
due to this interim measure and supports its finalization under the preparation of RSSP3. For this reason, despite
the delays in MTR recommendations noted, Component 3 is rated satisfactory.
Disbursement
14.     The mission notes that as at August 1 2011, the disbursement rate for the Project is 70% (in terms of
USD). Disbursement of counterpart funding is fully 154%, due in part to GoR financing for unanticipated
leveling costs in Muvumba 8. Given that as of the end of July 2011, the Project has completed 98% of its
planned procurement activities, the mission finds disbursement progress to be satisfactory.
Financial Management:
15.      Following from the issue of the Project tax bill estimated at USD4.8 million at midterm, the Project has
informed the mission that the Ministry of Finance (MINECOFIN) has instructed MINAGRI to cover the
Project’s tax liability out of their budget (see Annex 6). The Project has updated the information provided at
MTR about the deteriorating exchange rate between SDR and USD and estimates that there is currently a USD
1.8 million shortfall in expected Project resources. Adding to this the USD1.1 million in RSSP 3 studies needed
to be financed, the total shortfall in project financing is USD2.9 million. In discussion with GoR, the mission
agrees with their request to (1) prepare a PPF under RSSP 3 of USD1.1 million for the preparation of RSSP 3
                                                        4
                                                                                                            PUBLIC


technical studies, currently foreseen (with gap) to be financed by RSSP 2; (2) postpone the work on Rwagitima
Marshland (300 ha,3 USD 1.1 million) to RSSP 3; and (3) apply the Component 1 surplus of USD393,351 to
leaving approximately USD300,000 of the SDR exchange rate gap to be financed for Project closure.

16.     Overall the RSSP II financial management systems remain satisfactory and the risk rating remains
moderate. RSSP has followed several recommendations made at MTR. The Project should also implement the
recommendations raised in the audit report for the year ended 31 December 2010 by sharing their action plan
with the Bank for this purpose.

Procurement
17.     The mission reviewed procurement challenges faced in implementation since MTR and provided support
specifically for the procurement of consultancy services to undertake the Project’s final impact assessment,
which sent out EOI twice, but failed to produce a six-firm list. The mission recommends that the Project Team
proceed with the recruitment process. Failing a satisfactory outcome, they should proceed immediately to the use
of consultant qualifications (CQS) to recruit the required expertise.

18.     The merger of the LWH and RSSP procurement functions since MTR has been subject to multiple
assessments by the Bank procurement team. Observations since MTR, both through prior and post reviews, lead
to the conclusion that quality of procurement operations would benefit from an increase in the number of staff,
given the merged volume of work (please see Technical Annex for a summary of post procurement review for
RSSP). The merger was relatively more beneficial to LWH given that the LWH team was not adequately staffed
for scale up at the time of merger (as discussed at appraisal for LWH scale-up under the Global Agricultural
Food Security Program, GAFSP). While raising the level of experience, the mission finds that the merger still
needs to make up staff numbers. Specifically, the mission recommends that at the central level, the merged team
consist of three Procurement Officers and one Procurement Assistant in addition to the head of Procurement
Unit. At decentralized level, one Procurement Officer per province is required for RSSP 3 going forward.
Despite some errors attributed to workload discussed in the post review, the procurement function is rated as
satisfactory, given the good performance of existing staff during a significant merger. The mission emphasizes,
however, the need to complete recruitment as indicated above for RSSP3.

Safeguards
19.        Overall safeguards compliance is rated satisfactory.
20.     Environment: Based on field visits and discussions with safeguards specialists, the mission finds that all
recommended actions from MTR were implemented (see Annex 2). Based on the mission’s findings,
environmental safeguards compliance is rated as satisfactory. Further to those recommendations, the EIA/EMP
was revised for Cyili Marshland (an RSSP 3 site). While the ecological flow assessment is found to be adequate,
during the filling of the reservoir, it is important to ensure that in-flow is shared between dam storage and the
downstream river/flow to avoid a temporary cessation of flow downstream.

21.      Social Safeguards: The mission met with a group of Project Affected Persons (PAPs) on the Muvumba
VIII site, who had been resettled to Nshuri village. All expressed satisfaction with the process and the
compensation received (land provided by the District, and building materials provided by the Project). The
mission noted that an updated RAP was submitted, and approved by the Bank on November 2 2010, and should
be re-disclosed on the RSSP website. The mission requested and received the latest progress report and confirms
that the following information has been included as recommended in the MTR: roles and responsibilities of
implementation agencies, grievances/complaints, and employment of the PAPs (and the project site community
as a whole). The mission requests that upon resettlement of the remaining 2% awaiting resettlement due to water


3
    Removal of 300 ha brings the Project’s total ha of marshland developed to 91% of its 3,300 ha target.
                                                                5
                                                                                                                       PUBLIC


    damage at the new properties, a notification should be sent to the World Bank that resettlement is complete. All
    social safeguards are found to be satisfactory.
    M&E
    22.     All recommendations since MTR have been implemented and the activity is rated satisfactory. Specific
    progress is noted in the improved Excel M&E tool, notably improving data management and reporting. While
    the data collection strategy has been revised to cover remaining gaps (mainly though the planned impact
    assessment), the contract for a firm to undertake the impact assessment has not yet been awarded and (ii) there is
    uncertainty that the data from the National Institute for Statistics (NIS’s) national household survey (EICV) will
    be available on time now that the Project is closing early. These two issues require the urgent attention of RSSP
    management. The mission commends the proactivity of the Project in including income data collection in the
    TOR of the impact assessment consultants, but emphasizes that any delays in the availability of good quality data
    coming from the impact assessment and/or the EICV could compromise the satisfactory rating of the Project
    performance at closing and delay the preparation of RSSP3, as some of the key indicators and triggers depend on
    the availability of that data. To this end, the mission attended a meeting between the EICV team and RSSP at the
    NISR. The RSSP team reiterated its data needs regarding the EICV. Colleagues from NISR clarified that data
    would not be available before December and with more certainty in January. Also, it was agreed that the RSSP
    team would organize a meeting between the firm selected for the RSSP 2 impact assessment and the EICV team
    to harmonize approaches and processes. The RSSP team will regularly follow up with the EICV team on the data
    availability come December. The mission emphasizes that Project will require the full data set to make needed
    income and poverty comparisons between RSSP recipients and the general population. Section D below provides
    recommendations. In addition to the data that is being collected on the Results Framework and on the Program
    indicators and triggers the RSSP team should undertake an exercise to identify any additional positive intended
    or unintended results and impacts that have been observed on the ground. This will enhance the Project’s own
    ICR (draft due at appraisal) and provide additional information underscoring the good performance of RSSP2 at
    closing. The M&E team should work with each component and with the communication team to identify the
    needed information.

    D. RECOMMENDATIONS AND PENDING ACTIONS/NEXT STEPS FOR RSSP 2
    23.        In addition to following up on the mission’s feedback on the last mission’s recommendations (Annex 2),

                           Recommended Action                              Responsible Entity          Deadline
1         The RSSP team continues its progress on creation of            RSSP Project           Prior to project end
          WUAs according to relevant international standards, and        Management
          adjusts relating capacity building program, including
          WUAs and Districts.
2         The RSSP team provide the final Ministerial Order for          RSSP Project
          WUAs and the RSSP WUA registration with Ministry of            Management             Appraisal
          Justice for the legal package for RSSP 3
3         To reduce the financing gap, final land leveling of            RSSP Project           Project end
          Muvumba 8 to be executed under the High Labour                 Management
          Intensity approach (HIMO)
4         It is recommended that the Project continue the marketing      RSSP Project           Project end
          committees training to strengthen through a series of short    Management
          refresher training sessions (1-2 days) about market
          evolution, particularly marketing transaction costs and
          prospective outlets.
          Based on the agreed draft RSSP/LWH implementation              RSSP Project           Appraisal
          structure, Project salaries to be reviewed and rationalized.   Management
5         AWPBs for both projects to be updated and sent for review
6         The RSSP M&E team should follow up the agreed steps            RSSP Project           As soon as the firm is
          with NISR regarding the EICV data and the impact               Management and M&E     selected for the
                                                                     6
                                                                                                                  PUBLIC


                          Recommended Action                             Responsible Entity         Deadline
        assessment; namely organizing a meeting between the           team                    meeting with EICV
        impact assessment firm and the EICV team to coordinate                                team
        actions and regularly check in with the EICV team starting                            December for
        December to get the relevant data as soon as possible                                 checking on EICV
                                                                                              data
7       The TOR for the impact assessment should be modified to       RSSP Project            Appraisal
        include a review of costs and revenues of the seed activity   Management
        for the relevant cooperatives and the business plans of
        RSSP2 cooperatives.
        Complete in-country safeguard re-disclosure for Muvumba       RSSP Project            15 August 2011
        8 RAP, ensuring removal of PAP names and details to           Management
8       prevent identification.
        Complete RSSP 2 safeguard disclosure for Muvumba 8            World Bank Safeguard    15 August 2011
9       RAP at World Bank InfoShop, ensuring removal of PAP           Team
        names and details to prevent identification.

        GoR to complete the ICR before Project closure                RSSP Project            Project End
10                                                                    Management
        The Project Team to finalize the procurement process for      RSSP Project            RSSP3 Appraisal
11      the consultant to undertake the Independent Impact            Management
        Assessment of RSSP 2 with enhanced TOR (see
        recommendation table below)
12      The project should implement the recommendations raised       RSSP Project            TBD
        in the audit report for the year ended 31 December 2010       Management
        by sharing an action plan with the Bank for this.


     E. OUTCOMES AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR RSSP 3 PREPARATION
     Project Scope and Design

     24.     The bulk of the mission was spent in joint RSSP 3 project activity design with the GoR RSSP team. The
     scope was discussed at length in the context of objectives for RSSP 3 (see outcomes of results chain workshop in
     the Technical Annex): In keeping with the long term programmatic objective of the RSSP APL series, there is a
     common vision for the focus of the third phase to be on extending successful and sustainable marshland
     development with an emphasis on diversification of economic activities and better integration into value chains.
     There was joint agreement on objectives and principles for components and sub components, on their structure
     and on the broad categories of activities. The finalization of component objectives and activities will receive
     further development and articulation through preparation leading to appraisal. Components are summarized
     below (further detail can be found in the Technical Annex). As in RSSP 2, there will be three components:

     Component 1: Infrastructure for Marshland, Hillside and Commodity Chain Development
     The objectives of Component 1 will be to expand irrigated area of cultivated marshlands through rehabilitation
     and development, promote sustainable land management practices on associated hillsides, and improve economic
     infrastructure in support of commodity chain development. There are three sub-components:


     Sub-component 1.1: Marshlands Rehabilitation and Development
      This subcomponent focuses on rehabilitation and development of selected schemes in marshlands with high
     potential for commercialized production. Investments will be demand-driven and a clear selection framework
     will be applied including: (i) readiness for investment; (ii) stakeholder interest; (iii) access to markets and
                                                                  7
                                                                                                          PUBLIC


proximity to roads; (iv) environmental and social sustainability; and (v) economic rate of return. The mission
supports the Project’s exploration of alternative and lower cost technologies in RSSP 3, which will contribute to
the coverage possible under the Project
Sub-Component 1.2: Sustainable land management on hillsides
25.      Sub-component 1.2 Sustainable Land Management for Hillsides builds on progression from mere
‘hillside protection’ in RSSP 1 to economically interesting sustainable land management (SLM) on hillsides,
drawing from the successful approaches of the LWH. The second sub-component will therefore promote (i) cost-
effective soil and water conservation technologies on hillsides for agricultural production, and (ii) disseminate
sustainable land management practices on hillsides immediately adjacent to the irrigation investments, using the
3:1 ratio used in RSSP 2. There was joint agreement on the principle that sustainability of the marshland
infrastructures depends on soil erosion activities being economically interesting to hillside farmers. While the
LWH approach has certainly proven to do this, it is costly, as noted by the GoR team and mission alike. The
Project will need to develop and propose an affordable approach to RSSP 3 hillsides that still meets the Project
objectives of making soil erosion protection on adjacent hillsides an economically interesting activity for hillside
farmers. This is critical to ensure sustainability of both the infrastructures and the associated gains from
irrigation. The proposed approach should be shared with the Bank prior to appraisal as the Project’s Appraisal
Document (PAD) is finalized.

Sub-component 1.3: Infrastructure for commodity chain development

26.      Sub-component 1.3 Infrastructure for Commodity Chain Development supports construction of
economic infrastructure for developed marshlands and hillsides to support the firm integration of women and
men into their value chain activity and/or diversification. Based on lessons noted at MTR regarding the excess
demand for economic infrastructure (RSSP 2 Sub-component 2.3) and the need for greater cross-coordination
across components and teams, this activity is found in RSSP 3 under Component 1 with a scaled up resource
allocation. During preparation, the Project team expressed a preference for moving this to Component 2 on the
basis that all ‘value chain’ development work should fall under Component 2, where this work is driven. It was
agreed that this would be discussed further as the PAD is finalized and that both options would be considered
and reviewed by both teams. Rural investment for economic infrastructure concerns all infrastructure that
supports the economic activities handled by cooperatives or small groups. Investment in infrastructure in this
Component is driven by community demand and is directly linked to the establishment of a business plan
developed by cooperatives with support from sub-component 2.3 (below). Such investments would require
contributions from the community (either in-kind or through linkages with rural finance While these investments
will cover all marshlands developed under RSSP 3, as well as Muvumba VIII, developed at the end of RSSP 2,
criteria will be developed during Project preparation to prioritize the hillside cooperatives that can best benefit
from similar investments. Finally, a portion (to be defined by appraisal) of sub-component 1.3 could support
supra-cooperative initiatives for greater value chain integration.

Component 2. Strengthening capacity for marshland and hillside commodity chain development

27.     The objective of Component 2 is to support the firm integration of women and men in targeted
marshland and hillside areas into markets, by intensifying production, promoting diversification into agricultural
value addition or upstream markets, and expanding access to markets. The Project will focus on strengthening
commodity chains for main food staples, including rice, potatoes, maize, and horticulture crops but it will remain
responsive to broader proposals where tangible marketing opportunities exist. The project approach will
                                                         8
                                                                                                            PUBLIC


strengthen farmer communities to promote an inclusive development for all including the very poor, the landed
and the land less by mainstreaming best practice community driven development (CDD) principles across all
project target areas (see Technical Annex for further details). Component 2 will include three sub-components:

Sub-component 2.1: Strengthening farmer organizations and cooperatives

28.      RSSP3 will strengthen producer organizations, including WUAs and cooperatives, with the goal of
improving their governance and management capacity so that they can deliver good quality services to their
members. Activities are expected to include: (i) mobilization and group formation (particularly on the hillsides);
(ii) governance and management training including book keeping and accounting for farmers’ organizations and
cooperatives implemented in partnership with LSPs; (iii) specific support and training for WUAs in collaboration
with RSSP3 engineers and the District; (iv) production and dissemination of reference training material; and (v)
organization of exchange visits between cooperatives. See the specific activities in the Technical Annex. The
focus of capacity development will depend on the level of maturity of the farmers’ organizations and
cooperatives. For RSSP2 cooperatives, special attention will be on value-chain development through business
plan development (see Sub-component 2.3) while in new cooperatives created by RSSP3, additional effort will
be put on basic governance and production technology. Small group formation will form an integral part of the
approach where appropriate, but particularly on hillsides and with women and men in Project areas involved in
non-farm activities. As the project progresses and groups and cooperatives gain experience, they would
increasingly qualify for receiving capacity support in more complex value chain integration (see 2.3). WUA, by
definition, are considered as a separate organization to the cooperative and the sub-component will support their
formation, training and formal registrations. Districts will be encouraged to include WUA support and activities
in the District development plans.
Sub-component 2.2: Improving production technologies
29.      RSSP3 will support activities to improve production and productivity in the marshlands and hillsides
adjacent to marshlands. In line with Government policy for extension and in collaboration with Rwanda
Agricultural Board (RAB), the Project will support the up-scaling of the Farmers Field Schools (FFS).
The FFS approach builds capacity and empowers farmers to use improved and economically viable practices for
sustainable soil, water and pest management in view of increasing productivity and its profitability of
agricultural activities. RSSP3 will continue supporting cooperatives to become certified seed producers. Project
activities in this sub-component would include: (i) Training-of-trainers for the up-scaling of FFS in marshlands
and hillsides for sustainable intensification; (ii) up-scaling of the FFS in the marshlands and in the hillsides to be
developed by the project (RSSP2 and RSSP3); (iii) support interested cooperatives to become certified seed
producers in cooperation with RAB linking to any ongoing seed projects; (iv) LWH extension approaches to
support intensification of rainfed hillside production; and (vi) support to innovations for productivity.

Sub-component 2.3: Capacity building for value chain development
30.      Capacity building for value chain development is to be directly linked to the various levels of organized
groups discussed above that are meant to play a role in the value chain—starting with the individual producer. As
a lesson learnt from RSSP2, it is crucial to allow individual farmers to better plan and develop their farming
activities through a thorough understanding of the business. Participatory value chain approaches will be used in
addition to the successfully applied methodology of lead farmers. The following three core modules will be
delivered: (i) development of farm budgets/business planning to lead farmers; (ii) small enterprise management
to lead farmers; and (iii) marketing of output to Marketing Committees. On another level, business plan training
will be provided for cooperative management that links directly to investments discussed in sub component 1.3.
                                                         9
                                                                                                                 PUBLIC


Beyond this core training, a mentoring program provided by professionally trained service providers in
agribusiness and value chain development on retainer will focus on cooperatives leaders and marketing
committees for at least the first three years of the program. Criteria can be developed to indicate when
cooperative development graduates from the input that local RDB-supported business development centers
(BDS) can provide to the (possibly cost-shared) higher level service on retainer under this sub-component. The
hillsides benefitting from collective infrastructure under sub-component 1.3 will receive similar support.
Building on the several success stories from RSSP 2 respecting access to RIF for cooperative business plan
financing, the RSSP 3 should focus on supporting cooperatives to seek financing for innovations through RIF.
This includes clear articulation of quality innovation investment proposals and full information for risk
assessment by the financial institution.

Component 3: Project Coordination and Support
31.     In keeping with the commitment of Development Partners in the agricultural sector of Rwanda to
support MINAGRI’s progression to a SWAp implementation, RSSP2 will complete its implementation merger
with LWH. The LWH implementation structure was designed to contribute to MINAGRI’s ‘One PIU’ in which
each of four implementation teams implement one fourth of the GoR strategic plan for the agricultural sector
(PSTA II). As part of the LWH scale-up under the GAFSP, the procurement and financial management units of
the LWH were merged with the more experienced ones of RSSP2 in order to further the Bank’s support to
MINAGRI’s streamlined implementation. The proposed RSSP3 implementation structure is therefore an
incremental fulfillment of this commitment. The RSSP team proposed a merged structure which was discussed
and agreed by the mission (see Annex 7 for the organigram). The mission finds that the proposed structure is
adequate to implement both RSSP and LWH activities. The mission recommends that the Project now proceed
with a review and update of Project staff salaries, and formulate terms of reference for all positions, prior to the
appraisal of RSSP3.

Scope
32.      In terms of scope, the Project team proposed an irrigation target of 7000 ha and provided data on
potential marshlands and technologies that could be used in reaching that target. The mission worked with the
Project team to collect cost information from RSSP and LWH to examine the feasibility of the Project proposal.
The table in Annex 5 indicates that even when a very low (relative to LWH) hillsides unit cost is used
(USD500/ha) for hillside development, the target of 7000 ha would bring Project costs to almost USD67 million,
leaving USD3 million for rural infrastructure (sub-component 1.3), for all of Component 2 (capacity building)
and all of Component 3 (project implementation). Based on the agreed objectives, principles and activities
documented above, the mission proposed that RSSP3 could instead support around 17 new marshland
cooperatives (14 from newly developed marshlands and 3 from Muvumba 8 RSSP2 marshland), across
approximately 14 marshlands, covering 5,300 ha of irrigated marshland and 15,900 ha of developed adjacent
hillsides.4 To arrive at this proposal, for indicative purposes only, the mission used a unit cost for hillsides
(USD800), significantly below that of the lowest range from the LWH package (USD 3,300 – 4,200/ha). The
mission worked with the GoR team to try to provide the minimum technical requirements for Components 2 and
3 in order to determine minimal costs for each component and sub component. While there was broad agreement
on the intensity and nature of activities in Component 2, the GoR team felt that they could be availed at lower

4
 In addition, the Project would support an approximate further 25 marshland cooperatives from RSSP 2 in need of
consolidation of capacities for sustainable commodity chain integration, as well as small-group formation development with
adjacent hillside communities.
                                                           10
                                                                                                           PUBLIC


costs than the mission team’s estimate. The differences in cost estimates can be further reviewed during
preparation but remain marginal compared to overall project costs.

   Component/sub-component             Proposed Resource
                                           Allocation
                     Component 1      USD 54 million
Sub-component 1.1                     USD36.3 million
Sub-component 1.2                     USD12.7 million
Sub-component 1.3                     USD 5.0
                     Component 2      USD 11 million
Sub-component 2.1                     USD 4.5 million
Sub-component 2.2                     USD 3.5 million
Sub-component 2.3                     USD 3 million
                     Component 3      USD 5 million
                           Total      USD70 million

33.      Subsequent to discussion of this proposal, the Project firmly reiterated: its preference for 7000 ha of
developed marshland considering the national need for irrigation and the significant impact it has had on food
security for project beneficiaries so far; that cost savings could be found on the capacity building activities of
Component 2 where the project has a good capacity building model ongoing ; and that a more affordable hillside
model which builds on what the project is already doing could be found . Given the empirical exercise of Annex
5, the mission indicated that even given a more affordable (than LWH) proposal for hillsides, 7000 ha was not
technically and financially possible without further financing such as cofinancing. On the last day of the mission,
the World Bank’s Country Management communicated the proposal from MINECOFIN to allocate an additional
USD 10 million of Rwanda’s increased IDA 16 allocation to RSSP 3. Applying this extra financing to expand
the area under irrigation would go some way to maintaining the critical ratio between the ‘hardware’ and
‘software’ aspects of the Project indicated in the table above, while coming much closer to the Project’s desired
target. Given the timing of the communication, the mission agreed to work with the Project to re calculate the
above proposal on the basis of an USD 80 million Project allocation. Broad agreement was reached on every
other aspect of Project design. Going forward, therefore, will require (i) a further review of the cost estimates
aligned with the agreed sustainability principles for the project, particularly for hillside development; and (ii)
updated projections for irrigated hectare targets.

34.     Monitoring & Evaluation and Management Information System: The mission facilitated a workshop to
develop the RSSP 3 results chain (see Technical Annex). Following the final definition of the RSSP3 results
framework, it was agreed that updates to the MIS data collection would be made. A workshop on the merging of
the LWH and the RSSP3 M&E and communication units took place during the mission to identify the key
responsibilities of the merged unit and also to define an action plan to finalize the merger (see Technical Annex).

35.      Economic and Financial Analysis: The mission discussed with the Project M&E and Agribusiness staff
the data required to undertake the financial and economic analysis (EFA) for the RSSP2 Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) as well as for the preparation of the RSSP3 EFA for the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD). The mission also provided a data template to the Project to provide the data by 30 August 2011 the EFA.

36.     Safeguards: Based on visits to two potential project sites, Rwinkwavu and Gacaca, and discussions with
the Project team, the mission confirms that the environmental safeguard policies proposed at Concept Stage are
applicable: OP 4.01- Environmental Assessment, OP 4.04 – Natural Habitats, OP 4.09 – Pest Management, OP
                                                        11
                                                                                                              PUBLIC


    4.11 – Physical Cultural Resources, OP 7.50 – International Waterways. The mission gave a technical briefing
    on all safeguards triggered, and guided the Project Team on the update of the Environmental and Social
    Management Framework (ESMF). When requested by the GoR, the mission will prepare and issue the Riparian
    Notifications, as per OP 7.50. The mission reminded the Project Team that the updated safeguards instruments -
    ESMF and Pest Management Plan (PMP) – must be disclosed prior to the start of appraisal. The mission agrees
    with the Project Team that the merged LWH/RSSP project should have one full-time Environment Officer (EO)
    focused on environmental compliance. The mission reminds the Project to ensure that water abstraction rates
    from sub-projects are in line with the need to maintain a minimum ecological flow sufficient to protect
    biodiversity and livelihoods downstream (see also Technical Annex). The mission further confirms that
    resettlement activities will be required, and that as proposed at Concept Stage OP 4.12 – Involuntary
    Resettlement – is applicable. The extent of resettlement activities will be determined by the design of the
    individual sub-projects. As above, the mission reminded the Project Team that the updated safeguard instruments
    – Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) – must be disclosed prior to the start of appraisal. The mission agrees
    with the Project Team that the merged LWH/RSSP project should have two full-time members of the
    Community Development Team, focusing on social safeguard compliance. OP 4.37 – Safety of Dams – was
    triggered during PCN review. However, it is extremely unlikely that the sub-projects selected would require
    dams of over 15 m in height. Although there may be dams with a height of between 10-15 m, these are unlikely
    to be located in areas classified as high risk by OP 4.37. At the request of the GoR team, the mission will discuss
    the triggered status of OP 4.37 with World Bank management and inform the GoR of the final decision. The
    mission notes that with the compliance of LWH with OP4.37, preparation for this safeguard policy in the event
    of its trigger will be minimal for RSSP.
    Financial Management
    37.      The mission undertook an FM assessment of RSSP3 in accordance with the Financial Management
    Manual for World Bank-Financed Investment Operations, which became effective on March 1, 2010. The overall
    residual FM risk is found to be Moderate (Medium-I). The FM assessment has identified the following
    mitigating measures to ensure the arrangements put in place by the proposed implementation entity meet the
    Bank’s minimum requirements for project FM. Specifically, the Project needs (i) to finalize and validate the new
    FM structure and the terms of reference with clear reporting lines as part of the wider merger of the project
    implementation unit that still remain in draft; (ii) ensure all FM positions are filled especially for the new
    accountants supporting decentralized teams and activities; (iii) undertake discussion with the software consultant
    on the merging the existing softwares currently in operation and defined by a coding system; (iv) harmonize the
    chart of accounts to help with unit synergies; (v) consider harmonizing the FM manuals for a more effective FM
    team; and (vi) harmonize the reporting frequency for both projects and with that of GoR, to be confirmed by
    appraisal. Details of the FM assessments for RSSP3 are summarized in FM assessment in the Technical Annex.
    Procurement
    38.     As per the assessment in section D above, the mission has assessed the merged unit and finds that it has
    been enhanced with the merging of the more experienced RSSP staff with that of LWH. Prior to closure, the
    Project should recruit staff to ensure that the merged team consists of three Procurement Officers and one
    Procurement Assistant in addition to the head of Procurement Unit. At decentralized level, one Procurement
    Officer per province is required for RSSP 3 going forward. Having appropriate number and qualified staff in
    place will increase efficiency in project implementation and minimize fiduciary risk.
    F. Recommendations and Next Steps for RSSP 3 Preparation
                           Recommended Action                       Component   Responsible Entity       Deadline
1         The Project needs to prepare a costed hillside           1            RSSP Program         30 September
          (adaptedLWH) approach that will inform total ha of                    Management           2011
          irrigation and hillsides, while meeting RSSP3 hillside
          objectives to share with Bank team as part of ongoing
          preparation

                                                              12
                                                                                                                         PUBLIC


                            Recommended Action                         Component       Responsible Entity          Deadline
        The RSSP team should undertake a participatory                2                Project Management      Prior to Appraisal
        evaluation of the LSP and discuss the conclusions as well                                              of RSSP3 (end
2       as the RSSP3 indicative capacity development plan with                                                 Nov 2011)
        the LSP at a workshop.
3       The RSSP team should undertake a preliminary evaluation       2                Project Management      Prior to Appraisal
        of the marshland cooperatives supported by RSSP2 to                                                    of RSSP3
        identify; (i) those that would be ready for more intensive                                             (end Nov 2011)
        support regarding value chain integration and (ii) those
        that need further support to consolidate their organization
        and management capacity.
4       The Project should proceed with a review and update of        3                MINAGRI/Project         Prior to Appraisal
        Project staff salaries prior to the end of RSSP2.                              Management              of RSSP3.
                                                                                                               (end Nov 2011)
5       Project Team should ensure that TOR for each of the           3                Project Management      Prior to Appraisal
        positions appearing in the proposed merged structure                                                   of RSSP3 (end
        should be prepared and shared with the Bank for review                                                 Nov 2011)
        before the appraisal of the RSSP3.
        The Project Team should update the MIS data collection        3                Project Management      Appraisal of
        following the definition of the RSSP3 Results Framework.                                               RSSP3 (end Nov
6                                                                                                              2011)
        The Project Team should provide the data required for the     3                Project Team            30 August 2011
7       EFA to enable the consultant to complete the analysis.                         (Agribusiness and
                                                                                       M&E)
                                                                          Safeguards   Project Management      By completion of
        Merged LWH/RSSP project to assign one full-time
8                                                                                                              LWH/RSSP
        Environment Officer (EO) focused on environmental
                                                                                                               merger
        compliance, and two full-time members of the Community
        Development Team, focused on social safeguard
        compliance.
9                                                                      Safeguards/     Project Management      Preferably by
        Government of Rwanda to send formal request for the
                                                                          Legal                                August 12, 2011
        Bank to prepare and issue the Riparian Notifications, as
        per OP 7.50
        Project should ensure that water abstraction rates from           Safeguards   Environmental           Ongoing
10      sub-projects maintain a minimum ecological flow                                Specialist and
        sufficient to protect biodiversity and livelihoods                             Irrigation Specialist
        downstream.
        Confirm the trigger status of OP4.37 on the Safety of         Safeguards       World Bank              30 August 2011
11      Dams
12      Follow the action plan developed to finalize M&E merger       M&E              Project Management      Appraisal
        (see Technical Annex)                                                                                  (end Nov 2011)


     The Bank and MINAGRI confirm their understanding and agreement to publicly disclose this Aide Memoire.
     The disclosure of this Aide Memoire was discussed and agreed to with the Project and Ministry counterparts led
     by Permanent Secretary Mr. Ernest Ruzindaza at the wrap-up meeting that took place on 5 August 2011in
     Kigali.




                                                                 13
                                                                                                         PUBLIC


    Annex 1: List of People Met
                  NAME                             TITLE                                 INSTITUTION

Kalibata, Agnes                   Minister of Agriculture                       MINAGRI

Ruzindaza, Ernest                 Permanent Secretary                           MINAGRi


President                         Cooperative Duterimbere Murundi               Gacaca

Secretary                         Cooperative Duterimbere Murundi               Gacaca

Evariste Ndayisaba                Farmer                                        Ntende

Emmanuel Bisanukuri               Farmer - Cooperative Icyitegererezo           Gacaca

Francois Nizeyimana               Farmer - Cooperative Icyitegererezo           Gacaca

Marianne Nzamukosha               Auditor - Cooperative Icyitegererezo          Gacaca

Zephanie Nyayigiziki              Farmer                                        Muvumba

Rachel Nyirabizeyimana            Farmer                                        Muvumba

Sande Bavakure                    Farmer                                        Muvumba

Augustine Mingi                   Farmer                                        Muvumba

Bunani                            Farmer                                        Muvumba
                                  Vice-Mayor in Charge of Finances and the
                                  Economic Development in Nyagatare
Stanley Muganwa                   District, Eastern Province                    Muvumba
VEGI APPALA SATYANARAYANA         Project Manager (SPENCON)                     Muvumba
Augustin BUTERA                   Work Director (SPENCON)                       Muvumba
HAROUNA Bukari                    Chief o f the supervision Mission (CIMA)      Muvumba
François MANIRAREBA               Director of ECOMAF                            Muvumba
Anastase KARAGIRE                 Director of ERGECO                            Muvumba
Thomas RWAGASANA                  Director (EMMR)                               Muvumba
Varundeep Singh                   Project Irrigation Engineer (SPENCON)         Muvumba
Jean de Dieu SINZAMUHARA          Manager of the COPRORIZ                       Ntende
                                  Chief of Mission of the Technical study for
Marc NGARSANGMADJI                the development of Rwinkwavu Marshland        Rwinkwavu
Norbert Seindege                  Director General Agricultural Production      MINAGRI
Violet Nyirasangwa                Programme II manager                          MINAGRI
Amor Bayouli                      Irrigation technical Assistant                KWAMP project
Venant Gasangwa                   Irrigation engineer                           KWAMP project
Laurent Gashugi                   Assistant Representative                      FAO- Rwanda
Mary Strode                       EICV Consultant, Leader Statistics            Oxford Policy Management, NISR
Prof Andy McKay                   EICV Consultant, Professor of Economics       University of Sussex, NISR
Ms Emilie Perge                   Researcher in Economics                       University of Sussex, NISR
Sebastian Manzi                   Researcher                                    NISR




                                                        14
                                                                                                                                          PUBLIC

    Annex 2: Follow Up on RSSP 2 MTR (October 201) Recommendations

                    Recommended Action                       Comp    Responsible Entity        Deadline       Follow-up summary July, 2011
1                                                              1    MINAGRI and Project    5 November 2010    The Project chose MTR Option
                                                                    Management                                2: (i) postponing of Cyili
      Project should decide which option it intends to                                                        marshland and Kibaya dam; (ii)
      pursue in order to resolve the financing gap.                                                           removal of Gishoma dam
                                                                                                              (dropped as RSSP marshland);
                                                                                                              and (iii) splitting secondary
                                                                                                              works on Muvumba VIII
                                                                                                              marshland to be contracted with
                                                                                                              local firms. These savings
                                                                                                              amounted to USD5.88 million,
                                                                                                              closing the USD4.96 million gap
                                                                                                              identified at MTR and leaving a
                                                                                                              Component 1 surplus of
                                                                                                              USD1.15 million
2     In the event of the cancellation of EGECOR              1     MINAGRI/RPPA           Date of contract   Project Management maintained
      contract, the appropriate GoR agencies to take                                       cancellation       pressure on the contactor and
      appropriate action against the firm for future work.                                                    works have been completed
                                                                                                              according to the agreed deadline
3     Project formulates alternatives for works               1     Engineering Unit and   22 October 2010    Not applicable. Works were
      completion in the case of premature contract                  Project Management                        completed according to the
      cancellation with EGECOR and share with the                                                             agreed deadline, as above
      Bank team for review.
4     Project will use the resources provided by the          2     Technical and          15 November 2010   RSSP2 designed a special
      mission to review/ design training for marketing              Agribusiness Units                        module combining the RSSP1
      committees.                                                                                             module with material provided
                                                                                                              by the mission and from other
                                                                                                              sources (MINICOM).
      The Project and its LSPs should initiate support for    2     Technical and          December, 2010     Although cooperatives were
      cooperatives in analyzing how existing investments            Agribusiness Units                        trained on saving for
5     can leverage further investments through the                                                            depreciation for future
      Project’s business plan process.                                                                        maintenance, the Project has
                                                                                                              started this exercise and will
                                                                                                              continue to project end. It will be
                                                                                                              important also as part of review
                                                                                                              while planning for RSSP3.
                                                                           15
                                                                                                                                           PUBLIC

                   Recommended Action                      Comp      Responsible Entity           Deadline       Follow-up summary July, 2011
6    MINAGRI to provide guidance on speed and                3      MINAGRI                   30 November 2010   GoR harmonized pay schedule
     process of PAC-approved salary harmonization                                                                issued. With the decision to
     process and salary upgrade.                                                                                 advance preparation of RSSP 3
                                                                                                                 and a proposed implementation
                                                                                                                 merger, with implications in
                                                                                                                 numbers and levels of staff, this
                                                                                                                 exercise was put on hold until
                                                                                                                 RSSP preparation.
7    Project to resubmit the RSSP 2 training plan.           3      Project Management        15 November 2010   Training request has been
                                                                                                                 forwarded to MIFOTRA but not
                                                                                                                 yet resubmitted.
     The Project should re-assess the volume of work of      3      Procurement and Project   31 October 2010    The assessment showed that
     the two provincial procurement assistants in terms             Management                                   activities had reduced at the
8    of assisting the 82 cooperatives in procurement and                                                         provincial level. With the merger
     make appropriate recruitment decision.                                                                      of the RSSP and LWH
                                                                                                                 procurement units, further
                                                                                                                 recruitments were suspended. As
                                                                                                                 per the June LWH mission
                                                                                                                 recommendations, recruitment of
                                                                                                                 a procurement assistant for the
                                                                                                                 merged unit—underway
     MINAGRI to discuss the constraint on Project            3      MINAGRI                   5 November 2010    MINECOFIN confirmed GoR
9    outcome achievement of the tax bill with                                                                    will pay the tax liability—
     MINECOFIN as soon as possible                                                                               documentation still to be
                                                                                                                 provided to the Bank
     Project confines future requirements for individual     3      Project Procurement       Effective          Implemented
10   consultants and key staff for firms to that of CV              Unit                      immediately
     and certified diploma
     Terms of Reference (TOR), including expected            3      Project Management        31 October 2010    Implemented
11   outputs with times and deliverables should be
     developed for the Communication Specialist
12   Further streamline the number of indicators being       3      Project M&E Unit          15 December 2010   The M&E team has streamlined
     tracked through the new EXCEL-based M&E tool                                                                the excel data base tool, which
     and finalize the migration of data                                                                          has resulted in an improved
                                                                                                                 management and input of data.
                                                           Sfgds.   Engineering Unit and      Effective          Project team confirms that PPE
     All contractors should be enforced to provide PPE
                                                                    Project Management        immediately        equipment is provided to all
                                                                            16
                                                                                                                                              PUBLIC

                    Recommended Action                       Comp      Responsible Entity          Deadline       Follow-up summary July, 2011
13   equipment to the workers, with penalty for non                                                               workers with instructions to use
     compliance. Workers should be encouraged to wear                                                             them.
     the equipment provided, for their own safety;
     At Mukunguli, insofar as feasible, a narrow verge       Sfgds   Environmental             At Mukunguri       Pennisetum is being planted as
14   of grass should be maintained on the verge of the               Specialist                preparation        an as a soil erosion control
     channels to limit damage caused by erosion and                                                               measure, to limit fertilizer run-
     limit the introduction of fertilizer into the water                                                          off.

15   Efforts to implement soil erosion control measures      Sfgds   MINAGRI                   June 2011          Erosion control measures (e.g.,
     upstream from Mukunguri site should be                                                                       buffer zones) used both on- and
     encouraged or developed by MINAGRI                                                                           off-site, including upstream at
                                                                                                                  Mukunguli

16   A minimum ecological flow assessment should be          Sfgds   Environmental             Prior to RSSP 3    The ecological flow assessment
     undertaken at Cyili using the methods suggested in              Specialist, Engineering                      is adequate, please note
     the review of the EIA.                                          Unit , Project Mgt.                          recommendation 7 in Section D
                                                                                                                  of the Aide Memoire.
17   Submit a revised version of the Muvumba 8 RAP           Sfgds   Rural Sociologist         20 October 2010    Implemented
     to the incoming Safeguards Specialist for review,               Project Management
     clearance, and disclosure.
18   Revise and adjust the data collection strategy to        3      Project M&E Unit          15 December 2010   The M&E team has revised the
     include all the indicators and triggers (for eventual                                                        data collection strategy and
     preparation of RSSP 3)                                                                                       missing data for the Results
                                                                                                                  Framework and Triggers will be
                                                                                                                  collected mainly through the
                                                                                                                  upcoming impact assessment.




                                                                             17
                                                                                                               PUBLIC



                    Annex 3: RSSP 3 Preliminary Identification Activities (February 2011)

                                                 RWANDA
                                Third Rural Sector Support Project (RSSP3)
                             RSSP 3 Field Work and Strategic Planning Workshop
                                            15-17 February 2011
                                                   Technical Note5
Introduction
The purpose of this technical note is to summarize the activities and discussions with the Ministry of Agriculture
and Animal Resources (MINAGRI) on the preparation of a third phase of the three-phase adaptable program
loan (APL) for marshland development in Rwanda, the Rural Sector Support Projects (RSSP). Technical Field
Work and a Strategic Planning Workshop were held in the field over 15-17 February 2011. Government
participants included Ernest Ruzindaza (Permanent Secretary, MINAGRI), Jolly Dusabe (Project Coordinator,
RSSP 2), Esdras Byiringiro (Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Officer, RSSP 2), and Gaspard Niragira
(Irrigation Engineer, RSSP 2). The World Bank team was composed of Loraine Ronchi (Senior Economist,
RSSP 2 Task Team Leader) and Valens Mwumvaneza (Rural Development Specialist) with backstopping from
the World Bank RSSP 2 Implementation Support Team: Amadou Soumaila (Irrigation Engineer), Alberta
Mascaretti (Agricultural Officer), Thierry Lassalle (Institutional Development and Agribusiness Specialist),
Noreen Beg (Senior Safeguards Specialist) and Diego Garrido (M&E Specialist) . The objective of the field
work and workshop included: (i) to discuss the updated the results framework and trigger table since MTR; (ii)
to identify key issues/lessons learned through field visits to existing and potential sites; and (iii) to inform the
drafting of a strategic plan for the early completion of phase 2 (RSSP 2) project activities and advance
preparation for phase 3 (RSSP 3).

Background
The second-phase Rural Sector Support Project (RSSP 2) held its midterm review in October 2010. Within the
overall APL objective (see Annex 1), RSSP 2 aims to sustainably rehabilitate and develop marshlands and
hillsides and to strengthen commodity chains for increased commercialization of smallholder agriculture. The
Project has three components: (1) Marshlands and Hillsides Rehabilitation and Development; (2) Strengthening
Commodity Chains; and (3) Project Coordination and Support. The MTR for RSSP 2 concluded (see RSSP 2
MTR Aide Memoire) that the Project was well advanced in completion of its Component 1 activities and on
schedule for Component 2. The MTR further documents the inflation of construction and materials’ costs in
Rwanda since RSSP 2 effectiveness in 2008 and quantified the resulting financing gap. The MTR Aide Memoire
laid out several options, developed and discussed with MINAGRI, for next steps. Of these options, MINAGRI
officially communicated to the Bank that, given the advanced achievement of RSSP 2 triggers and results
framework (RF) indicators, that it will close the Project early and commence preparation of the third and final
phase of the APL (RSSP 3). The surplus savings from early closure will fund studies in preparation for RSSP 3;
and fill the SDR/USD exchange rate gap.

Activities and Outcomes
Over the course of the activity, the joint Government-World Bank team visited two marshlands: Rugerimigozi
Marshland (an existing RSSP 2 marshland) and Kamiranzovu Marshland (a potential RSSP 3 marshland). They
visited an innovative extension model (One Acre) in Nyamasheke District and participated in a day long strategic

5
  The Technical Note was filed as part of the World Bank Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) in June 2011,
with updated results framework as at June 2011. The technical note filed in the ISR also included the updated results
framework as at February 2011, the time of field work.

                                                           18
                                                                                                         PUBLIC

planning workshop chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MINAGRI. In anticipation of the strategic workshop,
the Government prepared an updated results framework and trigger table (Annex 1), an RSSP 2 Progress
Summary (since MTR) presentation, and an RSSP 2 Activity Plan for the remainder of the life of the Project.
These documents, as well as the environmental assessment for Kamiranzovu (completed during the preparation
of RSSP 2), were virtually reviewed by the entire RSSP 2 World Bank implementation team with comments
provided during the workshop. In term of outcomes and objectives:

RSSP 2 Results Framework and Trigger Table:
       Review by both World Bank and Government M&E specialists confirmed the advanced state of
        indicator achievement for the Project;
       Engineers agreed that a projected completion date of works by December 2011 was ambitious but
        conceivable—slippages are not likely to exceed March 2012;

Identification of RSSP 3 Issues through Site Visits
     In addition to the core set of selection parameters developed and used by the RSSP team throughout the
         life of the APL (e.g. cost/ha threshold, environmental externalities, etc.) a visit to Kamiranzovu
         Marshland near the Nyungwe Forest highlighted possible positive stewardship effect RSSP can have in
         areas where intensive rice cultivation is already ongoing without systematic environmental assessment
         pest management training, etc.;
     80 ha of this 120 ha of Rugeramigozi marshland was developed by RSSP 2 and farmers were harvesting
         a first crop of rice, indicated value chain challenges on the marketing side; marketing support and value
         chain activity is flagged for strengthening in RSSP 3;
     Rugeramigozi highlights the opportunity, on the engineering side, to extend irrigation hectarage under
         RSSP at lower cost (i.e. developing a range of cost alternatives to be elaborated during potential RSSP 3
         preparation).

Strategic Plan Draft
     Observations on progress of activities, on indicators, on triggers and from field visits led to a workshop
         for a strategic plan and timeline;
     Progress summary confirmed MTR observation that there were insufficient Project resources for
         Component 2 activities on Muvumba that would be covered under RSSP 3
     WUA indicator is advanced, but missing the triple-translated texts, including Ministerial Order (Decree)
         which has to go to Cabinet (can take until May 2011), and all associated texts finalized; then
         collaborative work with the other Ministries needs to take place;

Output from workshop includes a draft outline for the plan to complete RSSP 2 and prepare RSSP 3, to be
developed by the Government Team by 30 April 2011; and World Bank preparation timeline to effectiveness, to
be prepared by the Bank team and sent to RSSP/MINAGRI.




                                                       19
                                                                                                                                                           PUBLIC

Annex 4: Updated Midterm RSSP 2 Results Framework (including Phase 3 triggers)

                                                              Progress
                                                 Project                       Critical Assumptions and
           Indicator               Baseline                    25 July                                                               Comments
                                                 Target                                 Remarks
                                                                2011
Project Outcome Indicators

By the end of the Project,                                                                                        The progress on production is from an area of
production of rice in                                                      Rice production in marshlands          only 317 ha which was ready after rehabilitation
marshlands rehabilitated or                                                rehabilitated or developed during      during season 2011A. However, from season B,
                                                              1,358 tons
developed under RSSP2 has          5,527 tons   11,054 tons                the last year of the project will      a total area of 1,574 ha was cultivated, and we
increased by at least 100                                                  increase after project completion.     expect at least 10,231 tons from that season
percent relative to the baseline                                                                                  alone, which will help to reach the target.


                                                                                                                  The progress on this indicator will be measured
                                                                                                                  during the Impact Assessment Survey planned in
                                                                           Adoption of sustainable
                                                                                                                  August 2011. We shall have the progress by
                                                                           intensification technologies is
                                                                                                                  October 2011. However, after 4 seasons of
By the end of the Project, at                                              defined as adoption of at least two
                                                                                                                  support, and after training in practice through the
least 50 percent of farmers in                                             of the following: soil fertility
                                                                                                                  demonstration plots, Farmer Field Schools,
marshland and hillside areas                                               management, IPM, conservation
                                                                                                                  study tours and training on erosion control; there
developed or rehabilitated by       25% of                                 tillage, contour bunding,
                                                50% of HH                                                         is a significant increase of farmers who have
the RSSP1 and RSSP2 have              HH                                   construction of erosion control
                                                                                                                  adopted marshland and hillside intensification
adopted sustainable marshland                                              structures including terraces,
                                                                                                                  technologies. This is confirmed by the
or hillside intensification                                                vegetative strips, and agroforestry
                                                                                                                  continuous increase of fertilizers used by
technologies                                                               practices. Baseline value based on
                                                                                                                  farmers and the high percentage of more than
                                                                           adoption observed among RSSP1
                                                                                                                  80% of survival rate and good maintenance of
                                                                           direct beneficiaries.
                                                                                                                  trees planted and terraces constructed for the
                                                                                                                  protection of hillsides.

                                                                           Assumption is that coops will be
                                                                           able to report their revenues
                                                                           accurately. Baseline revenues will
By the end of the Project, at
                                                                           be determined once the coops to
least 20 cooperatives with                                                                                        We have already met and surpassed the target.
                                                                           be supported are chosen
business plans and supported                                                                                      The number of cooperatives will certainly grow
                                    0 coops      20 coops     35 coops
by RSSP2 have increased their                                              Due to the difficulty of predicting    after the 2011B sales (the progress is after
revenues from sales by 50%                                                 the time path of this indicator, the   2011A sales).
relative to the baseline                                                   change in revenue of each
                                                                           supported coop will be tracked as
                                                                           well.

                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                                     PUBLIC

Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Component 1: Marshlands and hillsides rehabilitation and development
By the end of the Project, at
                                                                                                             All RSSP2 planned marshlands are complete
least 3,300 additional ha of
                                                                                                             except Muvumba VIII and Rwagitima extension
irrigated marshlands have been
                                3,110 ha       6,410 ha     4,684 ha                                         (both totalizing 1,800ha). The 2 remaining
rehabilitated or developed by
                                                                                                             marshlands are expected to be complete by
the Project (EDPRS/PSTA
                                                                                                             December 2011.
indicator)
By the end of the Project, at
least 75 percent of the farmers                                                                              WUAs committees were elected and trained in
in irrigated marshlands                                                  Currently there are no WUAs.        all 20 marshlands. All things are in place, a
rehabilitated or developed by     N/A           75%           77%       WUAs will be established by the      ministerial order will be passed any time soon.
the Project (RSSP1 and                                                               project                 Currently 77% of farmers are paying water
RSSP2) are paying water                                                                                      charges.
charges through WUAs
                                                                       Sustainable development of
                                                                       hillsides is defined as occurring
                                                                       when at least two of the following
                                                                       practices have been implemented:
                                                                                                             Out of 9,900 ha target; the Project has already
By the end of the Project, at                                          soil fertility management, IPM,
                                                                                                             covered 8,356ha after only two hillside
least 9,900 additional ha of                                           conservation tillage, contour
                                               24, 385                                                       protection seasons (2009 and 2010). By
hillsides have been sustainably   14,485 ha               22,841 ha    bunding, erosion control structures
                                                ha                                                           December 2011, this target will be met and
developed by the Project                                               including terraces, planting of
                                                                                                             surpassed as the total protected area will be more
(EDPRS/PSTA indicator)                                                 permanent crops or when the area
                                                                                                             than 10,000 ha after the 2011 season.
                                                                       is deemed unsuitable for
                                                                       productive use and protected
                                                                       through planting of permanent
                                                                       vegetation.
Component 2: Strengthening commodity chains
                                                                                                             74 cooperatives have finalized and started the
                                                                       Under implementation is defined       implementation of their business plans. The
By the end of the Project, at
                                                                       as the execution of activities        number is still increasing, this because of the
least 80 cooperatives
                                                                       described in the business plan.       training of cooperatives on business planning.
supported by the Project have      0 coops    80 coops    74 coops
                                                                       Baseline and intermediate values      By the end of August 2011, the total of
quality business plans under
                                                                       will be updated once the coops to     cooperatives with quality business plans under
implementation
                                                                       be supported are chosen               implementation will have surpassed 80 as 9
                                                                                                             more business plans are at the draft level
By the end of the Project, at                                                                                During season 2011A, 24 cooperatives produced
least 5 additional cooperatives      4           9           19                                              and marketed their seeds 2 of rice, 8 of maize,
supported by RSSP2 are                                                                                       7of potatoes, 4 of banana and 1 of cassava and 2
                                                                        21
                                                                                                                                                             PUBLIC

marketing certified maize or                                                                                          of wheat).
potato seed
By the end of the Project, with
at least 75 percent of the rural
infrastructure sub-projects                                                     A simple questionnaire has been       The progress on this indicator will be known by
funded through the LDF, the           N/A            75%                        developed to assess the               October 2011 after the Impact Assessement
majority of users are satisfied                                                 achievement of this indicator         Survey planned to start in August 2011
one year after the sub-project
was completed
Overall Program Indicators
                                                                                                                      The ongoing EICV will provide the data, but the
(a) Change in the average level                                                                                       progress will also be measured during the
of household incomes among           48,840                                                                           Project Impact Assessment Survey. The IA
Program direct beneficiary            FRW                                                                             survey firm will work closely with the NISR
households                                                                                                            EICV team to provide a harmonised progress
                                                                                                                      status
                                                                                                                      The ongoing EICV will provide the data, but the
(b) Change in the percentage                                                                                          progress will also be measured during the
of Program direct beneficiary                                                                                         Project Impact Assessment Survey. The IA
                                     65.66%
households under the poverty                                                                                          survey firm will work closely with the NISR
line                                                                                                                  EICV team to provide a harmonised progress
                                                                                                                      status
(c) Change in the average level
of rice yields per hectare in
                                                                                                                      Baseline and progress are from MINAGRI crop
districts having marshlands        2.7 tons/ha                   4.27 tons/ha
                                                                                                                      assessments reports
rehabilitated or developed by
the Program
Phase 3 Triggers
By the end of the Project, at
                                                                                                                      All RSSP2 planned marshlands are complete
least 3,300 additional ha of
                                                                                                                      except Muvumba VIII and Rwagitima extension
irrigated marshlands have been
                                    3,110 ha        6,410 ha      4,684 ha                                            (both totalizing 1,800ha). The 2 remaining
rehabilitated or developed by
                                                                                                                      marshlands are expected to be complete by
the Project (EDPRS/PSTA
                                                                                                                      December 2011.
indicator)
By the end of Phase 2, average                                      Rice:
                                   Rice: 3 t/ha   Rice: 6 t/ha
crop yields on farmed                                              6.05t/ha     For this indicator, “crops? are
                                                                                                                      Progress figures are from Project reports for
marshlands and hillsides                                            Maize:      defined as rice, maize, and potato.
                                                                                                                      direct beneficiary farmers. The figures may be
developed under the Project                                        4.02t/ha     Baseline values are national
                                   Maize: 0.8     Maize: 1.6                                                          even higher after finishing the ongoing
are 100 percent higher relative                                    (ZM607       average yields reported by
                                     t/ha           t/ha                                                              harvesting of season 2011B
to the beginning-of-Phase-1                                      seed); 5t/ha   MINAGRI for 2001.
baseline                                                           (Hybrid

                                                                                 22
                                                                                                                                                            PUBLIC

                                                                  seed)
                                  Potato: 8.6   Potato: 17.2   Potato: 17.5
                                       t            t/ha           t/ha
                                                                              The Impact Assessment calculated       The ongoing EICV will provide the data, but the
By the end of Phase 2, crop-
                                                                              the incomes for the direct             progress will also be measured during the
derived incomes of farmers
                                    48,840        73,269                      beneficiaries and included the         Project Impact Assessment Survey. The IA
assisted by CETSEs are 50
                                     FRW           FRW                        following crops: banana, rice,         survey firm will work closely with the NISR
percent higher relative to the
                                                                              wheat, cassava, maize, maracuja,       EICV team to provide a harmonised progress
end-of-Phase-1 baseline
                                                                              moringa                                status
By the end of the Project, at
least 75 percent of the farmers                                                                                      WUAs committees were elected and trained in
in irrigated marshlands                                                         Currently there are no WUAs.         all 20 marshlands. All things are in place, a
rehabilitated or developed by        N/A           75%            77%          WUAs will be established by the       ministerial order will be passed any time soon.
the Project (RSSP1 and                                                                      project                  Currently 77% of farmers are paying water
RSSP2) are paying water                                                                                              charges.
charges through WUAs
                                                                              Assumption is that coops will be
                                                                              able to report their revenues
By the end of the Project, at                                                 accurately. Baseline revenues will
least 20 cooperatives with                                                    be determined once the coops to        We have already met and surpassed the target.
business plans and supported                                                  be supported are chosen                The number of cooperatives will certainly grow
                                   0 coops       20 coops       35 coops
by RSSP2 have increased their                                                 Due to the difficulty of predicting    after the the 2011B sales (the progress is after
revenues from sales by 50%                                                    the time path of this indicator, the   2011A sales).
relative to the baseline                                                      change in revenue of each
                                                                              supported coop will be tracked as
                                                                              well.




                                                                               23
                                                                                                  PUBLIC

Annex 5: Options for Component 1 (Infrastructure for Marshland, Hillside and Commodity Chain
Development) Investment cost

    Option                         Description                     Intermediate     Total Cost
                                                                    cost (USD)       (USD)
Option Zero          5,000 ha of marshland                           35,000,000     47,680,000
                     300 ha of low cost irrigation technologies          180,000
                     hillside development (USD 500/ha)                7,500,000
                     RI                                               5,000,000

Option 1             6,000 ha of marshland                           42,000,000     57,300,000
                     500 ha of low cost irrigation technologies         300,000
                     hillside development (USD 500/ha)                9,000,000
                     RI                                               6,000,000

Option 2             7,000 ha of marshland                           49,000,000     66,980,000
                     800 ha of low cost irrigation technologies         480,000
                     hillside development (USD 500/ha)               10,500,000
                     RI                                               7,000,000

Option Zero-bis      5,000 ha of marshland                           35,000,000     90,580,000
                     300 ha of low cost irrigation technologies         180,000
                     hillside development (as under LWH)             50,400,000
                     RI                                               5,000,000

Option 1 bis         6,000 ha of marshland                           42,000,000    108,780,000
                     500 ha of low cost irrigation technologies         300,000
                     hillside development (as under LWH)             60,480,000
                     RI                                               6,000,000

Option 2 bis         7,000 ha of marshland                           49,000,000     127040000
                     800 ha of low cost irrigation technologies         480,000
                     hillside development (as under LWH)             70,560,000
                     RI                                               7,000,000




                                                     24
                                          PUBLIC

Annex 6: MINECOFIN Taxation Letter




                                     25
                                                                                                                                             PUBLIC

Annex 7: Proposed Merged Organigram for LWH & RSSP Units6




6
 Note to RSSP Team: The proposed revisions made by the Bank Team to the structure proposed by RSSP include: the District Coordinators
moved to the same level as the unit heads; Replace the Provincial Procurement Assistants with Procurement Officers (perhaps 2), because of the
scope of works required to support community procurement and also provide capacity building; there is no need to have a financial
officer/accountant in each district, instead there is need to have a few well qualified financial staff placed at the provincial level; under the Land
Husbandry (LH) unit, there should be 2 Land Husbandry Specialist positions; under the Community Development (CD) unit, there should be 2
positions for Capacity Building Specialists (CBS), one responsible for non-business capacity and the other responsible for business capacity
building. There is also need to include a position for group formation. The mission also discussed the desirability of a rice chain commodity
expert to be added to the Agribusiness Unit. The existing value chain specialist covers both LWH and non-rice RSSP.

                                                                          26
