Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22094
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39620)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$90 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
PERU
FOR A
RURAL ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
JUNE 25, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit - LCC6C
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol (S/.)
S/. 1 = US$ 0.29
US$ 1 = S/. 3.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
ERR           -      Economic Rate of Return
FCM           -      Municipal Compensation Fund
GZT           -      German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IDB           -      Inter-American Development Bank
LSMS          -      Leaving Standards Measurement Survey
MCM           -      Mechanism for Cofinancing Maintenance
MEF           -      Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTC           -      Ministry of Transport
NGO           -      Non-Governmental Organization
NMT           -      Non-Motorized Transport
NPV           -      Net Present Value
PCR           -      Project Implementation Unit
RRP           -      Rural Road Program
QAG           -      Quality Assurance Group
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jose Luis Irigoyen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
RURAL ROADS REHABILITATION & MAINTENANCE
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  11
6. Sustainability                                                                       13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     19
9. Partner Comments                                                                    24
10. Additional Information                                                             26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  37
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                    38
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                  62
Annex 10. Borrower's Final Evaluation Report Summary                                   65
Annex 11. Comments from Co-financier and Partners                                      76
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID. P037047                                       Project Name: RURAL RDS. REHAB & M
Team Leader: Jose Luis Irigoyen                           TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: June 25, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: RURAL RDS. REHAB & M                           L/C/TFNumber: SCL-39620
CountryiDepartment: PERU                                                 Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: TR - Rural Roads
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/24/1994                              Effective: 02/28/1996
Appraisal:  06/09/1995                                MTR: 06/15/1998            02/15/1999
Approval:  12/05/1995                              Closing:  12/31/1999          12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF PERU/MIN.OF TRANSPORT
Other Partners:  Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), joint cofinancier
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Isabel M. Guerrero                         Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:   Jose Luis Irigoyen                       Jose Luis Ingoyen
ICR Primary Author:  Jose Luis Irigoyen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN-Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to provide a well-integrated and reliable rural road system through
rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads and key links connecting to the primary road system. This to
help alleviate rural poverty and raise living standards of rural communities through increased access to
basic social and economic and income generating activities. Specific objectives were to: (a) reduce



transport costs and raise the reliability of vehicular access to expand markets for agricultural and non-farm
products; (b) integrate areas of low access to regional economic centers; (c) improve transport conditions in
rural villages; (d) generate employment to mitigate rural poverty; and (e) strengthen institutional capacity
and develop small and medium size enterprises to manage and execute, on a sustainable basis, the
maintenance and upgrading of rural roads.
These objectives were consistent with Government's strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
The overriding objective of the Bank's CAS for Peru was to support Government efforts to achieve the
sustained, continuous reduction of poverty. The primary elements of the anti-poverty program consisted of
raising the quality and improving the access of the poor to productivity-increasing human capital and
market-integrating infrastructure. The project objectives were clearly stated and their hierarchy well
presented through a Logical Framework. The objectives were reasonably realistic and particularly
responsive to the needs of the beneficiaries. In that sense, the objectives became driving forces for seeking
consistent results and continuously improving implementation arrangements in spite of the turnover of
executive directors and policy leaders within PCR and MTC respectively.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions to the project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was prepared and financed jointly by Government, IDB and the Bank to support the first phase
of a six-year Rural Roads Program. The program was designed to improve transport conditions between
rural commnunities and production and consumption centers, encompassing the rehabilitation of a "core"
road network composed of rural roads and connecting primary and secondary roads. Several advantages
were foreseen from this strategy. First, it would remove the bottlenecks constraining transport services in
rural areas, maximize the population benefited, and, overall, have a greater social and economic impact
than in the case of isolated road improvements. Secondly, through improved road access the project would
permit easier coordination among other rural development programs. Third, it would introduce local
governments to the principle of "network" management (including the informal network of non-motorized
tracks), which is key to improving transport services. The strategy acknowledged that it would take time
and substantial efforts in technical assistance for this principle to take root among local governments, since
this is a major change from the current practice where municipalities are mostly limited to occasional road
emergency works. Thus, while building an intense road investment program, the project supported a strong
institutional development component and an innovative scheme for road maintenance well-tailored to the
community environment.
In line with its poverty focus, the project area was limited to 12 departments, mostly in the highlands of
Peru, that rank highest in rural poverty: Ancash, Apurimac, Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Cusco, Huancavelica,
Huanuco, Junin, Madre de Dios, Pasco, Puno and San Martin.
The project consisted of the following six components: (a) rehabilitation of about 7,500 km of the rural
road network to improve accessibility and help reduce the overall deterioration of that network through
low-cost, labor-intensive solutions; (b) rehabilitation of about 2,200 km of primary and secondary roads
that are directly connected and give access to the rural roads systems under rehabilitation. These are
unpaved roads that after many years without any maintenance are in a deplorable condition and require
such works as regraveling, bridge replacing, slope protection and drainage system repairs to restore
year-round trafficability; (c) setting up a routine maintenance system based on contracting out
- 2 -



labor-intensive works to micro-enterprises or local cooperatives formed by members of the communities
living along the roads rehabilitated. The rationale for funding maintenance was that little or no
maintenance had been done in the past so the long-term benefits of simple day-to-day maintenance had to
be demonstrated through the structured learning exercise that the project would provide. This necessitated
that adequate funding be available not only for developing the proposed maintenance schemes but also for
sustaining their effectiveness through irnplementation; (d) upgrading or paving with local materials about
220 km of village streets surrounding the main square or the section of the rural road crossing the village,
in small rural communities, to enhance environmental conditions and raise living standards; (e) improving
Non-Motorized Rural Transport consisting of the execution of a pilot program in selected sites to improve
the network of tracks and footpaths through the removing of unsafe spots and other impediments to the
adequate use of non-motorized means of transport, the expansion of the above activities in the whole
project area based on the results of the pilot program, and the provision of technical assistance to support
the above activities; and (f) an institutional strengthening program.
The institutional strengthening component included a technical assistance program aimed at: (i)
strengthening MTC's capacity to formulate and analyze rural roads policy, to program investments in
coordination with other ministries and to monitor compliance with investment programs and performance of
the rural transport system; (ii) assisting PCR in the implementation and evaluation of the project; and (iii)
strengthening the capacity of municipalities to plan and implement rural roads programs. To support the
latter objective, the institutional component included studies on (i) rural road financing, to evaluate and
propose financing mechanisms for maintenance of rural road network; and (ii) local road administration
practices, to address impediments to an adequate and efficient management of the rural road network and
the development of the local construction industry. The project also funded the provision of technical
assistance to develop micro enterprises and other comnmunity organizations to execute rural road
maintenance including: (i) the design of the legal, administrative and financial framework under which the
micro-enterprises and other community organizations will be constituted; (ii) the establishment of
micro-enterprises and other community organizations for the routine maintenance of the rehabilitated rural
roads; (iii) the design of the technical and administrative procedures for the planning, implementation and
supervision of the maintenance carried out by micro-enterprises and other community organizations; and
(iv) the design of a monitoring and control system of the micro-enterprises and other community
organizations involved in rural roads maintenance. The above program was complemented with training
and on-the-job training aimed at developing special skills within PCR, increasing the technical and
managerial capacity of micro-enterprises and small and medium construction and consulting firms in rural
road construction and maintenance.
3.4 Revised Components:
The design of the project remained unchanged until project completion. However, a few and successful
adjustments were introduced during project implementation in the strategies for delivering technical
assistance to PCR and the participating local governments, and the training of micro-enterprises forned
under the project. In line with the project appraisal agreements, an international consultant was retained to
provide the bulk of the technical assistance services to support PCR and design the technical guidelines to
be used in developing road management capacity at the local level. However, dissatisfied with the initial
results PCR reformulated this strategy in 1997, targeting the participation of several NGOs with
specialized skills and stronger local experience to enable a more responsive and decentralized execution of
the program. Also, the two studies were merged into a single consultancy. The project originally
contemplated about four to six months of on-the-job training for the newly formed micro-enterprises. Soon
it became evident that such training was not sufficient for developing an entrepreneurial attitude and
administrative and accounting skills among micro-enterprise members. In partnership with local
- 3 -



universities, PCR designed a program based on recruiting young engineers, accountants and administrators
who having completed their studies needed practice and a thesis to graduate. These "monitors" have
accompanied the micro-enterprises since the program was introduced in 1997, "coaching" and training
on-the-job micro-enterprise members, and supervising their performance in delivering quality maintenance.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project predates the introduction of the QAG process at the Bank. Given the lack of activity in the
rural road sector in the country, quality at entry was significantly improved by undertaking a pilot to test
the validity of project design prior to its approval.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project made a substantial contribution towards improving the access of rural communities to
markets, off-farm economic opportunities, and social services, in a sustained effort to bring these
communities into the economic mainstream-the essence of any poverty alleviation program. It effectively
restored basic rural accessibility and improved the availability and affordability of rural transport services
within the areas intervened. Project investments targeted areas with high levels of poverty and emphasized
labor-based construction methods as a means to generate employment in those areas. It is estimated that
the number of people benefited by the project is around 3.5 million, with about 2.8 million direct
beneficiaries living along the roads rehabilitated under the project and about 0.7 million additional indirect
beneficiaries living within 5 km of those roads.
The project achieved its primary development objectives in a satisfactory to highly satisfactory manner.
This is supported by: (i) the abundant anecdotal evidence collected during project supervision through field
visits and interviews with stakeholders; (ii) the findings of the study on the economic, social and
environmental impact evaluation of the project, which was performed by Cuanto (a think-tank local NGO
with ample experience in LSMS surveys) between March - August 2000. Annex 8 summarizes the
findings of the study, including a brief discussion of the sample evaluated, the various hypothesis tested, the
nature of the impacts (whether short or long) and the results measured, comparing the sample of
beneficiaries (households and focus groups) with an equivalent sample of communities in the project area
served by roads not rehabilitated by the project (control sample); and (iii) a series of case studies and
research analysis sharply focused on social issues, undertaken in the context of the social assessment of the
RRP. The studies provided timely feedback on social side effects and project outcomes. A more detailed
assessment of the achievement of each development objective follows:
Reducing transport costs and increasing reliability of vehicular access. The evidence from the field visits
and the results measured through the impact evaluation study indicate that the impact of the project on all
those parameters directlv associated with transport has been substantial. The survey shows substantial
reduction in travel times (up to half) brought about by the rehabilitation works on both rural roads and
NMT paths. This reduction tends to be higher the worse the initial condition of the infrastructure. The
survey also shows a substantial increase in traffic volumes along the rehabilitated roads; while the
percentages are very high (about 22 percent for trucks, about 76 percent for buses, about 153 percent for
vans/small buses, and about 196 percent for cars) the starting volumes are often so low that the percentages
can be subject to large variability were the values to change slightly with additional surveys. Another
variable that shows positive changes on an unambiguous manner is the reduction in transport tariffs for
- 4 -



both passengers and freight, the more so if one takes into account the sizeable increase in the cost of vehicle
fuel consumption as a consequence of the increase in gasoline and diesel prices since the beginning of the
project. The effect on transport prices was larger (i.e., larger decrease) for freight tariffs. This effect is
more clear when comparing the project roads surveyed with those of the control sample: about 15 and 8.6
percent for freight rates on buses and trucks traveling on project roads, respectively, against about 1.2
percent and 0.7 percent on buses and trucks traveling along control roads rehabilitated and/or maintained
by other agencies. In all, decreasing transport prices appear to reflect both lower vehicle operating costs
and increased competition from an increasing number of providers.
On a related subject, that directly impinges in the quality and price of transport services, the surveys shows
that the rehabilitation program has brought about a substantial decrease in the percentage of time the roads
are not passable. For the sample of project roads, the percentage of roads that remain open with no
closures in any month of the year raised from 16 percent to 45 percent, while the percentage of roads that
at times became impassable in three months decreased from 62 percent to 31 percent. For the control
sample, the changes were not noticeable. The comparison demonstrates the positive net effect of the
strategy adopted for road maintenance.
Integratingpoorly accessible zones with regional centers. As noted above, the project has increased the
availability and reliability of rural transportation services. With regard to social integration, the study
demonstrated positive trends in improving communities' access to basic services. These impacts are clearly
noticeable in the case of access to health services. The survey does not show convincingly an appreciable
impact on access to education, in terms of greater attendance, smaller drop-out rates or higher enrollment
of teachers; in part because primary schools are generally sited in the communities and transportation is
done mostly on foot. Interviews, however, do show an appreciable perception in the improvement of the
quality of education through increased security in the movements of pupils and teachers, better punctuality
of both of them, and an increase in extracurricular activities.
With regard to economic integration, the effects in productive activities are still incipient in part because of
the short time elapsed since the rehabilitation works were completed and the conduct of the survey (about
two years on average). Some results tend to show that the project helped diversify productive activities and
move away from the traditional sectors and into other more income-rewarding activities with higher value
added.
Improving transport conditions in villages. The project targets set for improving village streets have been
surpassed, benefiting about 390 villages, far exceeding the project target of 200. The project has
demonstrated that Non-Motorized Transport (NMT) improvement programs are strategic interventions to
address the transport needs of the most poor. Relatively large communities in the highlands of Peru,
depend exclusively on tracks and trails to access basic social services and meet their trade needs. These
districts and communities are the most isolated and impoverished. The pilot aimed at improving about
1,500 km of NMT track networks in about five districts. Building on the early success of the pilot, the
program was expanded to about 3,000 km of roads, reaching about 521 villages (albeit not all of them are
districts). Consultations with the beneficiaries indicate that the main benefits of upgrading NMT tracks
perceived by the communities are the substantial improvements in the safety (for both people and porter
animals) and the reliability of the trips. The trips are safer and, after the rehabilitation, they can be
completed within planned time limits and with less incidence of factors such as weather conditions, season
of the year, etc. The combination of the above induces more and farther multipurpose trips, and in turn
promotes increased agriculture and farming production for commercialization of surpluses. Communities
highlighted as the most impacted aspects the greater security in their traveling and the greater integration of
their communities to the road network and to other communities. The benefits measured under the impact
-5-



evaluation study were significantly smaller than those of the road rehabilitation component. Nevertheless,
communities expressed strong support.
Generate employment. The project has generated, in the aggregate, about 32,300 seasonal unskilled jobs
through the rural road rehabilitation program, and about 4,700 permanent jobs through about 410
micro-enterprise that routinely maintain the roads rehabilitated under the project. Again, these
accomplishments exceed the appraisal project targets. The micro-enterprise program shows how public
expenditure can have a multiplier effect to support local development initiatives. Micro-enterprises have
embarked on productive projects at their own initiative and risk This has been possible due to their
sustained access to technical assistance (in areas such as accounting, entrepreneurial skills) and a stable
source of revenue (secured through the maintenance contract with PCR). The micro-enterprises have
acted as catalysts for other local development initiatives, become contact points for extension services, and
even mobilized untapped local resources for local community ventures. The impact survey found that
about 40 percent of the micro-enterprises had started productive activities, bringing new services and
stimulating labor markets in their communities. Most of these initiatives are funded by profits generated
through the maintenance contract and members' savings, although for certain productive activities the
micro-entrepreneurs were able to obtain credit from suppliers and even contributions from donor agencies
such as GTZ. The productive projects generate benefits that spill over other community members. The
benefits go well-beyond the up-keeping of roads.
As can be expected given the difficult environment in which they operate, some of these private endeavors
have run into difficulties. The micro-enterprises have reacted forming regional associations. For example,
the ones in Apurimac and Cusco have developed, with the assistance of consultants, strategic plans to
expand their capacity to undertake larger ventures, exploit economies of scale and better position their
products in markets where demand is larger and prices higher and more stable.
Building up institutional capacity. Despite the little progress made by Peru in its agenda for
decentralization, the project met the objectives of its institutional program. First, the project tested and
successfully established a set of institutional arrangements and procedures to guide the planning and
execution of rural accessibility improvements. This included the systematic use of participatory
approaches for subproject identification; the introduction of technical, institutional, economic and social
criteria for the screening and design of rural road subprojects; the development of technical and operational
guidelines and manuals for implementation of project activities; the extensive use of small local private
firms for execution of the project works, which opened up a regular market for simple mechanized and
labor-based rehabilitation works; and on-the-job training opportunities for the small firms (private
contractors and local consultants) and PCR staff involved in project activities.
Secondly, the project set up a cost-effective routine maintenance system based on contracting out
labor-intensive works to micro-enterprises, local cooperatives and other community-based organizations.
All roads rehabilitated under the project have entered, upon completion of the rehabilitation works, into a
routine maintenance program carried out by micro-enterprises. This implied (i) promoting the development
of micro-enterprises among leaders of the communities and base organizations, (ii) assisting
micro-enterprises throughout their constitution, including legal and technical advice, (iii) contracting out to
micro-enterprises maintenance of all roads rehabilitated under the project, (iv) putting in place adequate
contract arrangements and payment systems, (v) providing on-the-job assistance training on technical, work
organization, financial management/accounting, and business administration skills until micro-enterprise
members develop entrepreneurial capacity; and (vi) supervising and monitoring maintenance works and
micro-enterprise activities to ensure smooth implementation of the program.
- 6 -



Thirdly, the project exposed all participating municipalities to the organizational shortcuts, the simple
planning and budgeting systems, and the extensive use of labor-based methods and contract arrangements
promoted under the project. This "demonstration" effect is perhaps the greatest institutional achievement
under the project. With the assistance of an NGO, PCR developed during the first project a set of
guidelines to assist municipalities in strengthening their procedures. The guidelines are organized in five
modules conveniently suited to the municipal environment; they cover all phases of road management, with
special emphasis on maintenance. The adequacy of the guidelines was tested in a series of workshops held
with municipal authorities, and ultimately applied in the province of Arequipa to prepare a provincial
transport plan and design the pilot on provincial road management to be implemented under the follow on
project.
A study performed under the project analyzed the institutional and financial constrains that prevent
municipalities from assuming their responsibilities for rural road management and financing. In particular,
the study reviewed the system of road user charges and the financial position of the municipalities,
concluding that rural municipalities lack the funds needed to assume full responsibility for rural road
maintenance and that the current intergovernmental transfers under the Municipal Compensation Fund are
excessively biased against the financing of local recurrent costs. The study proposed a Road Maintenance
Fund to secure a steady flow of funds for road maintenance at the various levels of administration. For its
fiscal implications, this sectoral solution was rejected by MEF and eliminated from the legislation
eventually approved by Congress (Transport Law of October 1999) leaving the development of a more
sustainable financing strategy firmly linked with and contingent on broader developments in Peru's
decentralization framework, especially those related to local fiscal powers and intergovernmental transfers.
To address the above constraints, MTC designed the Maintenance Cofinancing Mechanism (MCM), a
co-financing arrangement between central govenment and the benefited local governments by which all
municipalities participating in the RRP will start contributing to the cost of routine maintenance activities
carried out in their jurisdiction and MTC commils to financing the balance. Although the MCM still relies
on transfers from MTC's budget to support part of the financing, it increases mobilization of funds for
road maintenance and represents an effective step in the transition towards fully decentralized management
and financing of rural roads. The municipal contribution is defined through a cofinancingformula in terms
of a "quota" per km rehabilitated by the RRP in each province, to be borne jointly by the district
municipality with specific jurisdiction over the road and the provincial municipality with jurisdiction over
the entire province. The MCM and the instruments establishing the fiduciary arrangements and reporting
were designed in a participatory way, seeking the municipalities' concurrence through a series of
workshops carried out in late 2000. These consultations exposed the need to increase flexibility in the use
of the transfers under Municipal Compensation Fund (FCM) made available to municipalities to finance
their recurrent costs. The follow on project approved by the Board on June 19, 2001 will make operational
the above arrangements.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project has been implemented in about 314 district municipalities. Half of these municipalities fall
within the category of "very poor", 32 percent of "poor", 10 percent of "extreme poor", and 8 percent of"
non poor" (that is, 92% of the districts within which roads were rehabilitated under the RRP present high
rural poverty indicators).
Most of the physical targets set for the project were surpassed by its end on December 31, 2000, after 5
years of implementation. Almost 8,900 km of rural roads and about 2,370 km of secondary roads were
rehabilitated under the project (about 18 percent and 8 percent more than envisioned at appraisal,
- 7 -



respectively). Maintenance is being regularly applied to almost 10,900 km of roads, through 410
micro-enterprises that have generated about 4,700 permanent jobs (to be added to the about 32,300 jobs
generated on a non-permanent basis by the road rehabilitation works). In addition, about 3,000 km of
NMT tracks were rehabilitated, doubling the number expected at the beginning of the program. About 174
km of local streets were paved in small villages (about 23 percent more than estimated at appraisal),
upgrading streets either along the alignment of the roads rehabilitated or encircling the main village square
where most of the communal activity takes place. This component attempted to gain further support to the
program and support the local municipalities in improving their infrastructure to accomnmodate the increase
in the traffic passing through the rural towns.
Project implementation has demonstrated the effectiveness of five key strategies adopted under the project:
(i) the restoration of satisfactory accessibility and operation conditions on the rural roads through low cost
rehabilitation works; (ii) the permanence of these conditions if the rehabilitation is immediately followed by
a program that consistently delivers day-to-day maintenance; (iii) the provision of the above services
through small local contractors and community-based micro-enterprises under a suitable organization and
supervision, as part of a strategy to assure greater efficiency and accountability for results and develop
local capacity; (iv) the participation of local authorities and beneficiaries in the processes of screening road
subprojects and supervising the delivery of project outputs to ensure greater responsiveness and ownership;
(v) the effective use of civil society organizations to provide services that require a lasting presence in the
area, intensive contact with stakeholders and the trust of community members; and (v) strategic
interventions to form transport networks that link poorly accessible communities with markets and
economic centers, and the inclusion of non-motorized tracks to meet the transport needs of the most isolated
and poor.
In all, the project was successful in reestablishing the accessibility conditions and better transport services
to the rural areas in the area of influence of the rehabilitated roads and securing the sustainability of that
accessibility with effective and efficient maintenance with local micro-enterprises. This is a central
achievement, since most often communities' support for low cost solutions is undermined by the lack of
credibility of ensuing maintenance arrangements. The project was also successful in spurring participatory
methodologies for the definition of priorities and the strengthening of the preparation of transport
development plans at the local level, with a more integrated vision of these plans and increased contribution
of the civil society to achieve this vision.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return.
The producers' surplus approach was applied to a representative sample of 36 sub-projects completed
under the first phase (representing about 20% of the investments in the rehabilitation of rural roads and in
the number of kilometers rehabilitated). In the application of this approach, adjustments were made to the
assumptions adopted at appraisal to reflect the results of the impact survey and the prevailing values for
production in the rural areas of the Peruvian Sierra as reported by the Agricultural and Livestock Census
of 1994. On the basis of this inforrnation, production and productivity ratios were obtained and applied to
adjust the values reported in the relevant socio-economic studies. The results of the analysis yield a
prorated (by the cost of the investments) economic rate of return (ERR) of 25% and a net present value
(NPV) of US$20 million, or about US$1 per US$ invested in the rehabilitation of those roads. Thirty
percent of the projects presented ERR less than the required minimum of 10%. These sub-projects
however did show positive NPVs at the 10% discount rate when the assumptions established at appraisal
were held (like, for instance assuming a 10% improvement in agricultural yields). For instance, if
productivity (yields) were to increase by 10% (in year 3) all the sub-projects except one would present
ERRs greater than 10% and the overall combined ERR would increase to 48% and the NPV per US$
- 8 -



invested in rehabilitation to 2.6, close to the values estimated at appraisal for another sample of
representative projects: 44% and 2.4. Those values appear to be a more likely outcome if it is considered
plausible that the results of the impact survey may not have incorporated yet longer-term effects on
agricultural practices and productivity. Nonetheless, the combined NPV of the representative sample of
sub-projects would remain positive even if, independently, the area of production does not increase (though
the number of sub-projects with positive NPVs would be reduced to only 12%) or if livestock production
does not increase or if no reductions take place in production costs (with an increase to 44% in the number
of cases with negative NPV at a 10% discount rate).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project was the first attempt of the Peruvian authorities to intervene in the rural roads sector in a
systematic manner. There were important issues about the strategy for working at the local level, which
would require some testing and experimentation before casting them in a long-term policy document and
investment program. These features --combined with the long-term efforts required to address both the
large road rehabilitation backlog and the institutional strengthening of provincial and district
municipalities-called for a phased- program, with shorter implementation periods and specific outputs to
be achieved in each phase. The design of an institutional and financial mechanism for rural roads
maintenance was the trigger chosen to move into a second phase. This approach has worked well, giving
the right incentives for PCR to focus on institutional development and financial measures, while retaining
flexibility to acconunodate any progress made by the government in its decentralization agenda.
Despite the little progress made by Peru in its agenda for decentralization, the project represents an
important step towards developing provincial and local capacity to manage rural transport assets and
support community-based development initiatives. Rural municipalities actively participated in project
activities as well as in the dialogue on institutional and financial issues in the rural road subsector that the
project brought about. The lack of an integrated framework for municipal functions, unclear legal
assignment of responsibilities between regions, provinces and districts, combined with a weak financial
base, seriously inhibit the capacity of municipalities to manage their rural road network. While this agenda
is far from settled, the project contributed to improving coordination between provincial and district mayors
through their involvement in the Participation Agreements and participatory procedures required under the
project to screen and undertake road subprojects. Long-term sustainability, however, is firmly linked to
strengthening the administrative and financial capacities of the municipalities in the management of rural
roads and footpaths located within their jurisdiction. This is a long- term effort and it is necessarily linked
to broader developments in the overall decentralization framework of the country, especially those related
to local fiscal powers and intergovernmental transfers. Nevertheless, the project enabled the design of a
mechanism to improve mobilization of funds for road maintenance.
The progress achieved to date should be considered especially significant in the context of the current
heavily centralized Peruvian administration. The proposed MCM is modest in its fiscal/financial
implications (municipalities will contribute with about 50% of the cost of maintenance) but it is an
important step on institutional grounds for the following reasons: (i) it respects the principle of municipal
jurisdiction over the rural or tertiary road system. The mechanism reinforces the principle stated in the
Municipal Law that municipalities are responsible for maintaining the rural roads (interestingly, the Law
states that municipalities have responsibility for building/improving rural roads to the extent they have the
-9-



funds to do it, and allows the central government to play a subsidiary role); (ii) it increases "ownership" on
the part of municipalities. Majors are presently involved in prioritizing investments and monitoring rural
road maintenance under the project (they have to sign-off each monthly payment to the micro-enterprises).
The financial contribution and the institutional/financial arrangements to be put in place for the mechanism
strengthen the role of majors, encourage more participation, and formalize reporting and accountability
requirements between the parties involved (PCR, municipalities); (iii) it requires provincial municipalities
to work together with their districts, establishing the province as the geographic unit for planning . This is
necessary for two main reasons: the benefits of improved accessibility and mobility depend on how well the
roads connect communities/towns with economic centers and markets (the network effect), and this usually
requires interventions that go beyond the boundaries of one district; and municipal districts are
institutionally and fiscally weak, a reality that calls for financial assistance from the provincial municipality
and coordination among municipalities to achieve economies of scale; and (iv) it builds institutional
capacity at the local level by exposing municipalities to the cost effective maintenance system (based on
micro-enterprises) developed by PCR and encourages a "learning-by-doing-by-showing results" approach
to institutional building. The central government contribution provides leverage to ensure the continuity of
appropriate work methods to achieve results.
Designing effective institutional programs aimed at building local capacity poses probably one of the
greatest challenges for development projects. The quality and sustainability of these programs become
even more critical when dealing with poor rural municipalities which are institutionally weaker and more
difficult to reach. By providing a demonstration of the benefits from adequate and sustained road
maintenance over the past five years, the project has developed a great deal of support for the concept of
simple day-to-day maintenance among the beneficiaries and central government authorities. A piece-meal
approach has generally dominated municipal interventions in the road sector, bolstered in part by an
unclear allocation of competencies and responsibilities between the two levels of municipal government.
Establishing effective mechanisms to enhance the ability of the municipalities to work together and build up
trust among them, is critical to developing an integrated network and functional transportation system for
the province.
The project increased private sector participation in the rural road sector to improve efficiency in the
delivery of road programs, by contracting out rehabilitation works and engineering services to small firmns,
and outsourcing maintenance activities to community-based organizations and micro-enterprises under
annual performance-based contracts. At project preparation there were concems about the ability of the
project to attract private contractors for the undertaking of the small scope of the works envisaged in
remote areas. The project not only succeeded in this but it also gave an opportunity to strengthen a large
number of small local contractors and consultants, and help them break the conundrum no-prior-experience
no-contracts. These small local firms are ultimately the ones that will remain close and continue working
with the municipalities once central government support to the RRP is phased out, so the focus on their
strengthening is an aspect that further enhances the institutional development impact of the project: .
The micro-enterprise program addressed the difficulties of ensuring central-government maintenance of a
myriad of scattered rural roads, and the failure of traditional municipal force account works, by contracting
out to micro-enterprises routine and emergency maintenance of the roads rehabilitated under the project.
The system has overcome the difficulties of ensuring central-government maintenance of a myriad of
scattered rural roads and the failure of traditional municipal force account works. The impact study
completed in 2000 has demonstrated its comparative advantages over other traditional approaches.
Moreover, the system has excelled in its social impacts, as micro-enterprises have generated employment
opportunities and acted as catalysts for other local development initiatives at the community level. The
perception of these side benefits has built pressure over central and local authorities for continuous road
- 10 -



maintenance.
Finally, the project also made a substantial contribution on social grounds by enhancing the articulation of
social development and rural accessibility improvements. The participatory approach introduced by the
project was central to bringing a more holistic view and ensuring responsiveness to local needs. In a
nutshell, consultation and participatory workshops during implementation of the first phase attempted to:
(i) assess transport needs and understand poverty links as perceived by the communities; (ii) confirm with
beneficiaries the priority of works and the conmnitment to their maintenance; (iii) validate designs and
include local solutions; (iv) mobilize local government support for road maintenance financing and
institutional building; (v) provide local governments with necessary information about the project and their
roles; and (vi) identify the specific needs of vulnerable groups (i.e., women, indigenous groups).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The El Niuio phenomenon of 1997-98. GDP in Peru fell from 6.9% in 1996 to 0.3% in 1997 due largely to
the severe floods and droughts caused by El Ninlo to extensive areas of Peru (most notably, the flood-prone
Northern areas and the drought prone Southern Altiplano). More than 100,000 houses in five departments
were damaged and there were large losses in infrastructure, primarily related to irrigation and transport
infrastructure. There was also extensive damage to education facilities and other social infrastructure.
A deep economic recession, which eroded the poverty gains that had been achieved by 1997. Peru's
economic slow down started with El Nino. After years of significant growth at an average 7 percent per
year between 1993-1997, the Peruvian economy experienced a series of exogenous shocks: El Nifio, which
caused severe damage to infrastructure; terms of trade, which deteriorated by 20 percent in 1998-1999 as
mineral prices dropped; and foreign capital flows,, which dried up following the Asian-Russian-Brazilian
crisis. The lingering effects of these shocks led to an economic downturn, which turned out to be
substantially more severe than expected. The fiscal deficit increased from 0.8 percent GDP in 1998 to 3
percent in 1999, due to lower revenues resulting from the economic slowdown and new tax exemptions, and
an increase in government spending because of wage increases and higher external interest payments.
The above factors had a negative impact on the project and its outcome. The effects are threefold: (i)
triggering additional costs as the project had to repair the damages caused by El Nifo along roads already
rehabilitated. The damage, however, was significantly less than on other roads, mainly because the
maintenance micro-enterprises kept drainage systems functioning properly, and the repairs were handled
with an efficiency not seen in emergency works done on the rest of Peru's road network. The repair works
were performed by the micro-enterprises, assisted with equipment owned by municipalities or rented by
PCR in three departments (Ancash, Cajamarca and Huanuco, under 34 contracts for a total cost of about
S/2.85 million; ii) worsening fiscal conditions. This ultimately led to a shortfall in local funds and severe
restrictions on public expenditure that tightened the pace of availability of external and counterpart funds
for the project and required a longer implementation period, increasing its administrative costs; and iii)
reducing economic activity in the project area, thus eroding the benefits brought about by improved
accessibility. In particular, 1998 and 1999 were, in general terms, unfavorable to the production in the
rural sector. In 1998, there were problems with the supply of agricultural produce because of the El Nino,
and in 1999 domestic demand shrank, reflecting to some extent worldwide financial problems. For
example, the sharp drop in farm prices during the last agricultural season (1998 - 1999) may have
discouraged sowing and the use of improved, more expensive input materials required to obtain gains in
productivity. The poverty incidence rate, which had declined from 55 to 51 percent between 1994-97,
- 11 -



climbed back up to 54 percent in 2000. When beneficiaries were asked in the impact survey about the most
important factors affecting their family livelihoods, about 41 percent ranked climatic conditions (rain,
droughts) in the first place, followed by improved transportation services (about 30 percent) and access to
new markets (10 percent). This illustrates the high vulnerability of the rural poor due to the precarious
livelihood conditions that can be easily affected by change in the climatic conditions.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Shortfall in funding allocations and delays towards the end ofproject implementation. During the second
semester of 1999 PCR was forced to slow down the pace of project implementation when the budgetary
authorizations for the use of external and local funds were revised down by MEF. The measure was taken
to curtail total public expenditure in response to the deterioration of Peru's fiscal position. Lacking
budgetary authorization, PCR could not make the payments due for rehabilitation works completed
between September and November 1999, with the resulting slow down of construction activities, and could
not award the contracts for a few pending works on about 100 km scheduled for completion before the
closing date (December 31, 1999). Although the physical targets had already been achieved by the original
closing date, PCR requested a six-month extension to avoid a situation that might put in jeopardy the
continuity of the financing of the maintenance program and a smooth launch of the RRP's follow-on phase
during 2000. The fiscal situation got worse in 2000, so the Borrower requested another extension to
December 31, 2000 to complete the on-going works and keep the micro-enterprise maintenance program
running until the approval of the follow-on project. The undisbursed balance of about US$3.23 million
was canceled on May 15, 2001. Another negative effect of these delays was that PCR could not hold its
track record of prompt payment to micro-enterprises and contractors, which became very stressful for these
small firms that lack the financial strength of large contractors.
Lack ofprogress with national decentralization agenda. The broad national issue of administrative
decentralization to local governments has a major bearing on the solutions to sector issues. The weakness
of local institutions for governance and program administration, especially in rural communities, is both a
symptom of underdevelopment and an impediment to social and economic growth. At the time of project
preparation in 1995, there were expectations that government would advance in its decentralization agenda,
clarifying the distribution of responsibilities and increasing the availability of financing at local levels.
Government decision-making and fiscal management remained highly centralized and, as with other sectors
of the economy, the allocation of responsibilities to regional and local governments in the road sector was
far from settled. Also, efforts to improve resource mobilization for road maintenance were halted (e.g.,
elimination of Road Fund from the Transport Law) depriving the road sector from a more secure source of
funding at both central and local levels.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Start-up implementation delays. While project implementation is overall highly satisfactory, there were
start up delays in 1996 due to a high and disruptive turnover of staff in PCR, following changes at the
Ministry level (three Ministers in six months). In particular, the launching of the formal technical
assistance program and the NMT improvement pilot experienced some delays. The selection of the
international consortium for the former was completed by March 1997, one year behind schedule.
Although PCR adopted specific measures to facilitate a quick inception of the consultant's team, it became
clear that the consultant team could not catch up with the pace of project implementation and deliver the
guidelines and operational recommendations the project was demanding. The contract was terminated
earlier than anticipated and a new strategy designed for a more decentralized delivery of the technical
assistance program. Implementation of the NMT improvement pilot started almost 18 months behind
- 12 -



schedule. The initial concerns about the relevance of the pilot interventions disappeared when the
participatory workshops showed the strong demand for the pilot from the communities. Also,
implementation of the pilot involved retaining NGOs to assist the communities in the screening, design,
execution and supervision of the pilot works. Eventually, PCR was able to overcome the initial resistance
to employ NGOs that prevailed at some levels of government. The implementation was so successful and
the pilot gained such support that by 1999 the pilot had been expanded from the five initial locations to 521
villages in 10 departments.
Difficulties in setting up a project information and monitoring system. Several attempts to design a
comprehensive, integrated information and project monitoring system did not produce the intended results.
In part, these attempts were too ambitious and sophisticated in their intended scope and level of
mechanization. The financial and contract administration modules were eventually made operational soon
enough for their application throughout project implementation. However, PCR is still working on the
design of the modules that would allow a systematic tracking of key assumptions and socio-economic
indicators contained in pre-investment studies and of the data on project outcomes and side effects gathered
during project implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project costs were kept within the appraisal ranges. This, in tam, allowed PCR to exceed the original
physical targets. For the reasons stated in 5.2 above, the loan closing date was extended twice from
December 31, 1999 to June 30, 2000 and to December 31, 2000. This one-year extension demanded a
larger allocation of local funds to cover PCR operating and administrative expenses.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as likely. The long term sustainability of the RRP requires that
municipalities acquire institutional, technical and financial capacity to thoroughly assume such
responsibility, given their jurisdiction and responsibility over the rural road network. The program aims at
gradually developing that capacity. The poverty focus of the first project under the program poses a vast
challenge, as it targets the poorest municipalities of Peru. Government remains committed to the RRP.
The implementation of the second phase has already started, and the Bank has just approved a loan to
support the Second Rural Roads Project.
Nevertheless, the project derives its sustainability from two different aspects: financial and institutional. On
the financial side, long-term sustainability is linked to the establishment of a financial mechanism for the
municipalities to undertake road maintenance activities. The design of such mechanism was the trigger
agreed upon in 1995 at project appraisal to move into the second phase of the RRP. Without adequate
allocations on road maintenance, the condition of the rehabilitated roads would begin to deteriorate.
Municipalities lack the necessary financial resources, especially those benefited by the project, as
intergovernmental transfers from the FCM and other central government sources are presently insufficient
to cover maintenance expenditures. Shifting investment resources to current expenditures, improved
revenue generation and increased intergovemmental transfers could potentially increase road maintenance
resources. The follow on project, scheduled to start soon, will further develop these options. In particular,
it.will support the implementation of a co-financing arrangement between central government and the
benefited local governments -the Maintenance Co-financing Mechanism--, which although not a definite
solutions (it still relies on transfers from MTC's budget to support the central government contribution),
- 13 -



represents an effective step in the transition towards fully decentralized management and financing of rural
roads. The new "Participation Agreements" under the second phase of the program require municipalities
to commit the respective technical and financial resources to put into effect the MCM. Prior to
effectiveness, government shall have issued legislation that allows the municipalities to utilize the transfers
under the Municipal Compensation Fund to meet their contribution under the MCM, increasing the
availability of local funds for maintenance. In this respect, the RRP provides a venue for continuous
dialogue with the Government of Peru regarding the mobilization of local resources and revenue-sharing
mechanisms for road maintenance, which constitute a preamble to the ultimate definition of the
Government's fiscal decentralization agenda.
On the institutional side, the project exposed local governments to organizational shortcuts based on
contracting out most of the works and services to local consultants, small contractors and community-based
organizations using work methods tailored to their capacity. Early involvement of beneficiaries and the
reliance on solutions well-adapted to the working environment of municipalities have increased capacity
and built pressure on local governments and the MTC for continuous road maintenance. Project
implementation has also demonstrated how beneficiary participation and a clear perception of the social
impact of the project invigorate sustainability in many ways. In spite of the fiscal crisis that so negatively
affected project implementation between late 1999 and 2000, the continuity of the maintenance program
was secured.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The RRP is an ambitious program aimed at reducing rural poverty -and gradually developing local capacity
for road management and financing. For equity reasons, the first two phases have sharply focused on
poverty reduction when targeting their interventions. As Peru's decentralization agenda progresses, the
RRP will increasingly focus on consolidating local government capacity for an effective and decentralized
management of the rural road system by the municipalities. Thus, in the long run the role of PCR will
shift from the current direct execution of work programs to monitoring performance and provision of
technical, institutional and financial assistance for programs carried out by a diverse number of executing
agencies, including municipalities and regional entities. Given its credibility before local level of
governments, the RRP becomes a suitable venue to further the decentralization effort under a controlled but
relentless exercise, whose pace can be aligned with government's progress in the overall decentralization
agenda and adjusted to local realities.
Acknowledging that it will take time and substantial efforts for these processes to take root among local
governments (as well as for central government to devise an appropriate fiscal decentralization scheme), the
tenets of the plan for the transition to regular operation envisages for the next five years:
a)   making operational a cofinancing mechanism for road maintenance under which municipalities would
contribute to defraying the cost of maintenance. The mechanism is based on: (i) transfers from
central government through budgetary allocations to PCRIMTC to cover about 50 percent of
maintenance costs at the beginning of the second phase and declining with time as more resources
become available at the local level; and (ii) contributions by municipalities from local revenue or
from current intergovernmental transfers allocated to municipalities under the FCM to cover the
remaining balance;
b)   strengthening the institutional framework for road maintenance. This implies: (i) clarifying
responsibilities among different levels of government over the different portions of the road system,
through the enactment of the "Reglamento de Jerarquizaci6n Vial" mandated by the Transport Law
- 14 -



of 1999; (ii) strengthening the role of the provincial municipality as the focus for rural road network
management and financing; (iii) strengthening road maintenance management capacity at the
municipal level; (iv) fine tuning the micro-enterprise program for routine maintenance to enhance its
sustainability and adaptation to the municipal enviromnent; (v) involving road users in road
management at the provincial level; and (vi) establishing performance reporting and accountability
systems, and a constituency to whom becorne accountable;
c)   carrying out a pilot on decentralized management of provincial road networks, which will test the use
of institutional and financial models, information reporting systems, and appropriate mechanisms for
the flow of funds. The pilot will help to build trust among provincial and district municipalities
involved, and establish evaluation and disclosure practices, both intermediate but necessary goals for
a sustainable decentralization;
d)   setting a "graduation" policy to encourage the transfer of direct responsibility to local governments,
under which municipalities that have assimilated the policies and practices supported by the RRP
would become eligible for direct execution of project activities in successive phases of the RRP; and
e)   developing a strategic framework for improving accessibility in the Selva region to enable a
sustainable social and economic development of these areas. A pilot, to be funded under the
follow-on project, will ascertain the set of technical, institutional, social, environmental and economic
guidelines needed for putting in place an effective inter-modal transportation system, capable of (i)
addressing the current accessibility constraints faced by the impoverished communities living along
or near the rivers, in terms of access to basic services, regional markets, income-eaming activities,
(ii) averting the potential direct or indirect negative impacts induced by such system on the fragile
ecosystems of the Peruvian Amazonia, and (iii) assisting local governments in creating economic
opportunities that could lead to a more sustainable and poverty reducing development of these areas.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's contribution to the design of the Rural Roads Program has been well appreciated by the
Borrower. Bank involvement brought several "best practice" approaches, which were highly innovative
and positive in their outcomes. The Bank team introduced the use of the Logical Framework, which is a
standard practice now but was a novelty in 1995. The LogFrame was key for communicating and sharing
both project goals and critical assumptions arnong the various parties involved in project execution. Most
of the factors affecting project implementation and outcomes -described in Section 5 above-were
identified as critical assumptions in the logical framework. The project design was carefully crafted based
on lessons leamed from past projects. Special attention was given to project implementation aspects,
building on a pilot to be financed retroactively to generate necessary experience, incorporating suitable
ad-hoc arrangements for procurement of a myriad of small works and engagement of communities in
project activities, and establishing field offices to widen the contacts with municipal authorities and
communities. Project design also included the use of bi-annual performance audits, which examined on a
sample of subprojects, the execution of the project physical components (e.g. quality and cost of the works)
and the compliance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Operational Manual regarding procurement
procedures, environmental mitigation, eligibility criteria, etc.
- 15-



But perhaps the most salient feature was the introduction of a bottom up approach for screening road
subprojects and the participation of communities in the various phases of subproject design,
implementation and evaluation. This required designing an "eligibility criteria" that combined those
socio-economic features related to the poverty focus of the project with technical elements (network
functionality, technology approach, environmental mitigation) and institutional elements (beneficiary
participation, support to micro-enterprise program, coordination with other programs) in a step fashion
framework. The workshops with the targeted communities carried out at project appraisal were a powerful
means of mobilizing support and ownership. Seen retrospectively, the role of the project in poverty
alleviation and the participation of beneficiaries and local governments was cemented and became a fully
shared objective through these workshops.
7.2 Supervision:
A quality of supervision assessment performed by QAG in 2000 rated the supervision as highly
satisfactory. The report highlights the strong focus of the supervision team on the project development
effectiveness and the monitoring of social effects. Quick responses to the information coming in made for
timely adjustments in implementation practices and procedures. The composition of the Bank and IDB
teams, and its continuity made this possible. Problems were quickly identified and the supervision team,
working together with the Borrower was able to identify appropriate solutions. The supervision team made
ample use of the local office. The respective field offices played an active role in reviewing subproject
eligibility and procurement and providing follow up and problems resolution support. In particular, the
NGO coordinator/sociologist in the Bank local office proved invaluable in facilitating the participation of
NGOs in project activities. This support extended from assisting PCR with the shortlisting of NGOs with
an established credibility before the communities in the areas selected for intervention, to screening social
issues for further analysis in the context of the evolving social assessment, to linking the extensive impact
measurement activities to research work being done by local think- tanks and under the National Dialogue
on Poverty.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall rating for Bank performance is highly satisfactory. This was a truly learning-by-doing project
with careful attention to monitoring project outcomes at all stages of implementation. The project was one
of the pioneers in developing performance indicators (they were showcased as an example of best practice
in an OPR publication in 1996). The initial indicators were continuously supplemented by studies and
other actions designed to provide feedback on the project's development impacts. The project team has
kept very close to this project and the lessons of the experience have had immediate application.
Particularly notable were the efforts to ascertain the impacts on local communities. The joint Bank and
IDB supervision team showed great sensitivity to community needs and engaged in frequent field visits that
were appreciated by both the Borrower and the respective communities. Such closeness enabled an
effective communication among beneficiaries, the Borrower and the IDB and Bank team. The continuity of
staff on both the IDB and the Bank tearns (the same two task managers remained in charge throughout
project preparation and supervision) has been another critical factor for the provision of a focused and
consistent support to the Borrower, as well as for the success of the IDB and Bank partnership.
This jointly financed project with IDB is an outstanding example of close cooperation between the two
institutions. Both institutions prepared and supervised the project together through a shared project team,
with the respective task team leaders coordinating the timing and composition of field missions. The
effective and synergistic collaboration with the IDB has been well appreciated by both MTC and PCR, and
- 16 -



pointed out as a prime example of what can be achieved when both institutions work together. The parties
involved have developed an open and effective dialogue that has overcome constraints in institutional
capacity at the national and local levels and has catalyzed project implementation. Various advantages
stemmed from this partnership: (i) reaching an agreed position on key policy issues and strategies. Project
and policy issues were openly discussed during the implementation of the first phase and preparation of the
follow on project --with IDB, PCR and the Bank acting as equal parties. This has not only increased the
banks' leverage with the Borrower but also contributed to adding transparency to the relationship, and in
turn, to building ownership of the project; (ii) mobilizing an enlarged multidisciplinary team. Supervising
the implementation of the first phase entailed nine joint missions between 1996-1999, staffed with
consultants and staff from IDB and the Bank (both headquarters and local offices) and allowing skills mix
that would have not been possible in the absence of this collaboration due to budgetary constraints. This
collaboration went beyond missions: the Bank financed several social studies (e.g., gender, social
assessment) and coordinated the work with NGOs, while IDB financed several audits (e.g., review of the
micro-enterprise program, environmental audit, environmental studies for the Selva pilot); (iii) simplifying
PCR's task management of the project through the unification of project operational procedures and
reporting requirements (which were agreed upon by the Banks under the Project Operational Manual); and
iv) enriching the dialogue within the IDB and Bank team, as the respective staff brought the experience and
knowledge of best practices developed by each institution.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower entrusted project preparation to a specialized unit --the Proyecto Especial de Rehabilitaci6n
del Transporte -Programa de Caminos Rurales (PCR)--, which was created in July 1995 by Ministerial
decree. With staff and budget separated from the rest of the Ministry, the unit enjoyed ample technical,
administrative and financial autonomy. Its limited personnel was paid from local funds. Most of the tasks
were undertaken by consultants engaged under the project. The unit was led by an Executive Director who
reported directly to the Vice-Minister of Transport. MTC had overall responsibility for project coordination
and implementation. The project operational set-up entailed a three-layer organization that attempted to
efficiently achieve an adequate monitoring of project execution, the decentralization of responsibilities, and
the participation of municipalities and communities. PCR would delegate day-to-day responsibility on 10
field offices, which would be established gradually as the program expanded from the initial six
departments to the 12 departments that composed the project area. This arrangement proved quite
successful and addressed the initial concerns about the potential capacity of PCR to manage within the
proposed time frame hundreds of road links and small contracts spread over difficult remote rural areas.
In view of the large size of the project and the history of inactivity in the rural road sector, Govermnent
decided to undertake a pilot prior to implementing the project. The main objective of the pilot was to
establish the basic technical, administrative, socio-economic and cost information necessary to design the
project. The Pilot generated experience about the availability and capacity of local consultants and
contractors (who reside in the area), the nature of the works, their costs and duration, and the use of labor
intensive construction methods. Even more importantly, MTC through PCR fully embraced the
participatory approach adopted for project design. The results of these participatory exercises performed
during appraisal included improvements to terms of reference, adjustments to and validation of project
concept (objectives, performance indicators, eligibility criteria, coordination mechanisms). They were
reflected in the Project Operational Manual.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
- 17 -



Government showed strong commitment to the project throughout its design and implementation stages.
MEF and MTC allocated sufficient counterpart funds until severely hit by the fiscal crisis in 1999. MTC
provided ample support to PCR. On a negative note, the project expectations regarding decentralization
were not met. The lack of progress between 1995-2000 in the definition of a decentralization agenda,
deprived the project from the policy framework needed to secure its long term sustainability. More
recently, there have been indications that the administration will resume the agenda for decentralization.
The project was also well received at the local levels of government. Majors have overwhelmed PCR with
requests for road improvements, even those of provinces not included in the project area. The project has
also attracted strong interest from community groups and local populations in the affected areas. These
groups have actively participated in the selection of subproject works and the development of
micro-enterprise firms. In many communities, beneficiary demand in these areas has exceeded project
resources. Significant demand also exists regarding the expansion of the non-motorized transport
component, which began as a pilot under the first phase. Communities have contributed towards the cost
of these works.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Since the Rural Roads Program started in 1995, PCR demonstrated capacity to carry out the project with a
development vision that exceeded the traditional hard context of road activities. On the one hand, the
execution of the ambitious program of investments through a great number of small contracts in the most
remote regions of the highlands of Peru demanded from PCR a solid organization and strong management
capacity. On the other hand, PCR's performance allowed to effectively work with local authorities and
communities, develop participatory processes innovative for the sector and establish strategic alliances with
other actors. It has been an organization continuously trying to surpass itself and master the increasingly
demanding institutional challenges posed by the program. Perhaps the most important indicator of the
success of the PCR as implementing agency is the credibility gained before the rural communities and local
authorities in the project area.
PCR managed the myriad of small contracts with local contractors, consultants and community
organizations, that characterized the implementation of the project. The use of the Project Operational
Manual ensured consistency in the solutions proposed and procedures to be applied by PCR and its field
units. The Manual established guidelines, technical specifications and terms of reference for design and
supervision of spot improvement and rehabilitation works. PCR supported the various studies conducted
between 1999-2000 to measure the impact of project activities and further explore the social effect of the
project activities on communities, gender, and vulnerable groups.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The satisfactory to highly satisfactory rating of the Borrower's overall performance is predicated on the
basis of the following:
a)  a satisfactory record in implementing the on-going project and realizing its development goals. PCR
has surpassed the investment targets agreed upon at appraisal for the first phase of the program and
fulfilled several critical institutional strengthening indicators, such as micro-enterprise development.
The project would have been completed on schedule except for the late budgetary cutbacks in 1999
and 2000. Throughout project implementation PCR maintained a receptive attitude to learn by doing
and incorporating feedback from implementation. It has continuously sought a more comprehensive
response to rural poverty and community development issues, to an extent that is unusual in a "hard"
- 18-



sector project.;
b)  the endorsement of key (and sometimes sensitive) principles which lie beneath'the project design.
Four features of the project -namely, the participatory approach in subproject generation, the use of
micro-enterprises for road maintenance, the extensive involvement of NGOs, and the inclusion of a
pilot for non-motorized transport- were indeed innovations for the road sector in Peru and so its
normal that at the beginning MTC either had doubts about their relevance or perceived their
implementation implied assuming additional risks for central government. Nevertheless, both MTC
and PCR embraced them, to the extent these principles are not under scrutiny for the design of the
follow-on phase; and
c)  the high visibility of the program at top levels of Government and their strong interest in ensuring the
continuity of the program. The program received significant attention at the highest levels of
government, who followed with interest its implementation and made positive reviews of its outcome.
MEF and MTC allocated and released the project counterpart funds needed in a timely manner until
the second semester of 1999, when MEF decided to limit the use of external funds and reduce total
public expenditure in response to the deterioration of Peru's fiscal position. Although the maintenance
program represents a financial burden for MTC, government renewed its commitment to moving into
the second phase of the Rural Roads Program, and requested both IDB and the Bank to accelerate its
processing to ensure no breakdown in the financing of ongoing activities, especially of the
micro-enterprises. In preparation for this second phase, PCR is acting to strengthen economic
planning, environmental management, and institutional strengthening functions, and to delegate
management responsibilities to its field offices. In particular, the Borrower entrusted to the Office of
Planning and the Office of Investments in MTC and MEF respectively, the review of sustainable
mechanisms for financing rural road maintenance over the medium-term.
8. Lessons Learned
Several lessons can be derived from the implementation of this project, which was particularly rich in
testing innovative approaches to communicating with rural communities and measuring outcomes in an
attempt to better understand the links between rural accessibility improvements and poverty'i' Three main
lessons emerged for their relevance in building ownership, reaching the poor, and ultimately spurring
positive socio-economic changes-the essence of any development intervention: (i) for effective poverty
reduction, rural accessibility interventions must fImd the balance between poverty targeting and promotion
of economic opportunities; (ii) continuous beneficiary participation invigorates project sustainability and
becomes a driver for positive social change; and (iii) common notions on what to expect from the
involvement of the most impoverished rural communities in NMT interventions need to be reformulated.
Balancing poverty targeting and the promotion of economic opportunity in rural accessibility
improvements: reflecting on the compromises faced in socio economic appraisal and project
sustainability. One of the main principles of a poverty alleviation strategy lies on the recognition that a
sustainable solution rests on income generation. While it can be argued whether it is the cause or its
effect, poverty is more pronounced in places that are more remote from market and cities, have the least
developed infrastructure and generally poorer quality of services. Consequently, a strategy oriented toward
poverty reduction should necessarily seek to establish links between the poorest and the marketplaces. An
effective link between the poor and marketplaces depends mainly on linking rural areas to urban
settlements, where market places are found. In particular, second- and third-range cities (in Peru, the
province and district capitals, respectively) located close to poor areas have the potential to link these areas
with economic corridors. Often the problem of accessibility is not confined to the rural road network but
- 19-



results from the failure of regional and sometimes national agencies to keep the connecting primary and
secondary road network in acceptable condition, an issue that should not be overlooked when designing
cormmunity-driven projects. The rehabilitation of connecting roads was a strong feature of the project
design to confront this issue.
However, the remote and poorest communities are precisely the least able to generate income. Since long
term sustainability means increasing income earning opportunities, targeting the most impoverished
communities would make a project highly progressive in reducing poverty, but perhaps at the expense of
weakening its sustainability. The process of poverty reduction is embedded in a broad range of
socio-economic activities to which transport services provide intermediate inputs. The project reinforces
the need of systematic project built-in research to delineate how and when improved rural accessibility
brings about changes in the multiple variables that affect poverty, by reducing transaction costs of rural
products and opening up economic opportunities, and by enhancing rural accessibility to a variety of
services and facilitating social interactions. The impact evaluation study found that the project's outcomes
had a close relationship with the period of maturation of the interventions and with the approach for the
selection of road subprojects, a factor controllable by the project. With the emphasis on poverty targeting,
the report argues, it is very likely that within the resources available the economic potential of the
communities might have been inhibited.
The project's eligibility criteria dealt with this issue, establishing cost-effectiveness indicators to ensure
certain economic worth --e.g., max. size of investment and min. number of beneficiaries-- and an economic
criterion for those subprojects not meeting the above indicators. The eligibility criteria represented a trade
off between beneficiary participation in screening/designing subprojects that meet basic access
requirements, and selecting interventions that maximize economic retums. Hence, the criteria probably
meant not selecting the investments with the highest economic return but rather those perceived by the
communities with better relevance and positive linkages to their livelihoods. More efficient analytical tools
are needed to measure the multidimensional impacts of rural accessibility improvements on poverty. In this
respect, the methodology applied attempted to capture those various dimensions on a stepwise fashion, and
limit the quantification of benefits to those that give good proxy of the adequacy of the investment, far from
quantifying all expected benefits. Enhanced basic access brings benefits generated by the ensuing better
access to social services. These benefits are difficult to quantify with methodologies that can be applied on
a daily basis in the context of projects like the RRP. Nonetheless, the promotion of income opportunities is
critical to shift from sustainable livelihoods to sustained poverty-reduction livelihoods.
The above limitations underscore the need to rely on periodic impact surveys to confirm trends and better
understand the links with poverty reduction. However, assessing the impact of the project exposes some
methodological issues which are difficult to tackle. Chief among them are:
the problem of the counterfactual, which has to do with evaluating what the welfare levels would be
if the anti-poverty program did not exist. The use of "control" groups for this purpose is very
common but it has its shortcomings as the households in the control sample may be better off (
worse off) than the project beneficiaries in terms of "initial endowment". An analysis based on the
endowment of assets owned by households in both "project" and "control" samples suggests that
although "control roads" were carefully selected to ensure they served areas with characteristics
essentially similar to those of the sampled "RRP roads", still there were differences in the level of
assets owned by households in each sample. Furthermore, one would expect that the net benefits
brought by improved rural accessibility will accrue above the existing "baseline". This proved not
correct because the "baseline" did not remain stable throughout project implementation due to
external factors. Thus, when measured up to recent poverty data in Peru, it appears that the project
- 20 -



had a noticeable impact in arresting the increase in poverty rates that took place in Peru between
1997 and 2000. In sum, albeit it is difficult to account for all the aspects that may affect the
comparison of impacts between the project and control samples, the results of the impact survey
unequivocally show the positive social and economic outcomes of the project, which is probably
more important than a precise calculation of the net effect of the project.
the problem of the maturity rates associated to the various impacts of the program. While the
impact on those outcomes associated with transport were significant and evident almost immediately
after the rehabilitation, the study showed it takes time before effects on income distribution and
well-being of the poor are felt.
The strong poverty focus of the project also meant targeting areas and working with municipalities that
most likely are weaker than the average, posing another challenge for the sustainability of the program.
The inherent institutional weakness of these municipalities conditions the success, at least in the short run,
of the efforts to build up local capacity in the rural road sector. Similarly, their financial weakness
increases the difficulty for local resource mobilization. Shifting the focus from poverty alleviation to
sector policy support (e.g., decentralization of rural road management) would have resulted in targeting and
working with municipalities with greater institutional and financial base, where the prospects of early
success are greater. The path taken under the RRP requires a long term effort, a sustained commitment
that may be tested at times of fiscal constraints.
On the other hand, the social side benefits of the project, which were clearly demonstrated and appreciated
by the various stakeholders during project implementation, became powerful engines in the drive for
sustainability. In the dialogue for the design of a financial mechanism for rural road maintenance,
government officials placed as much (perhaps more) value on the social benefits derived from the
continuity of the micro-enterprise program than on the benefits of road maintenance itself.
Finally, there is also a need to better understand how integration of transport interventions with other
activities can help strengthen poverty reduction strategies. The fragile dynamics of local development call
for close monitoring of benefits distribution effects. For example, the micro-enterprise program has gained
the acceptance of communities and government officials. However, no matter how deeply rooted in the
community, this support would decline in time if communities perceive they are not participating in the
economic benefits the program is bringing to micro-enterprise members. This underscores the importance
of complementary local development initiatives that directly benefit the communities where they are
located; and an exit strategy that opens opportunities to other members of the community once the
micro-enterprise (or its members) become strong enough to continue on their own without direct project
support. The project also exposed how access to other actors is vital and probably prior to access to
material resources in the determination of rural livelihood strategies in the Andes. This reinforces the
notion that not only what we do but how we do it matters. Each intervention should be an opportunity to
build up human capabilities and networks to transform people into agents of change.
Continuous beneficiary participation invigorates project sustainability in many ways and becomes a
driver for positive social change. The success of rural development interventions builds on designing
programs with greater responsiveness to local needs and capable of increasing ownership of those who
must take advantage of the opportunities created by the interventions and overcome socio-economic barrier
that stem from many years of living in isolation and might become barriers to a sustainable development.
In the rural roads sector, for example, regardless of how well roads are rehabilitated, without maintenance
their passage is compromised, and with it, a wide array of services that directly affect the livelihood of
towns and villages. Nevertheless, maintenance has always been neglected. If changes of community
- 21 -



attitudes towards maintenance are necessary, then the people whose behavior has to change must see their
own interests linked with the change and commit themselves to it. The value of community participation in
ensuring the sustainability of projects is well documented. The value of continuous participatory processes
in eliciting positive social change is a key lesson from project implementation.
The project made the beneficiaries participate in the various phases of subproject generation, design,
implementation and maintenance. While the whole project design was built on this approach, it relied on
the systematic use of participatory workshops especially designed to ensure that community and local
authorities participation was undertaken in an organized manner. Beneficiary participation workshops
became a powerful way to mobilize public involvement and create ownership of development initiatives,
and bring about changes in processes and even behaviors. The workshops confirmed the validity of the
project design and also proved very useful in: (i) demonstrating to PCR early in project implementation the
adequacy of local participation for identification of priorities and local bottlenecks to development, (ii)
confirming the comparative advantage of using NGOs already working in the areas for implementing
project components that required communications with the communities and their trust, (iii) identifying the
communities' large demand for improving non-motorized transport tracks, which in the absence of the
workshops would have not materialized; (iv) bringing a more "holistic" understanding of the problems and
needs faced by the communities. This perception has permeated most of the PCR responses in a way that
is far from conventional for a road agency; (v) exposing local authorities to participatory approaches and
enhancing coordination between provincial municipalities and their respective districts; and (vi) increasing
ownership for road maintenance at both community and local government levels. In the discussions
preceding the introduction of the MCM municipalities raised concems about their flexibility to meet the
contribution requirements, rather than opposing to financing maintenance.
The engendering of project activities under the follow on project is a good example of how studies and
participatory exercises can be combined so as to promote positive social changes. A first study
commissioned in 1999 performed an exploratory gender impact assessment. The study reported inter- and
intra-gender differences in the extent and nature of the effects of the project and how local gender relations
and other factors mediated the ability of road improvements to effect changes in women access to services,
women's mobility pattems, labor market participation, etc. As a result of the study, a module was added to
the project's final impact evaluation study to expand the evidence to a broader sample. While these two
studies paved the way and provided the supporting "academic" background to justify positive actions, it
was not until the workshop held in Cachora (see Annex 8) in the context of the Learning ICR that a gender
component was agreed upon and firmly anchored into the project design. At the workshop women were
keen in depicting how gender relations and social realities (e.g., alcoholism and increased rural-urban
migration, male abandonment of household) mediated the ability of rural development interventions to
improve many major aspects of daily life. This sparked a strong emotional communication that made PCR
decide to include a set of culturally acceptable measures to gradually achieve gender equity under the
follow on project. Since then, PCR staff is receiving training on gender issues and the gender dimension is
now deeply rooted in the RRP with its incorporation into the project development objective and activities.
But there is more to participation. Beneficiary participation poses also a risk, a dimension that rather than
ignored should be nurtured for its positive outcome producing effect. In the highlands of Peru, a history of
unfulfilled promises, poor results (with the benefits of government interventions vanished soon after due to
lack of maintenance), bad advice and a host of similar problems, has led to cynicism on the part of many
communities. Starting with the early consultations at project preparation, communities have passed a
consistent and strong message: don't come with proposals raising our expectations and then disappear
without fulfilling them. A clear understanding of the risks associated with the participatory processes
becomes a powerful driver for results. PCR has now realized that perhaps its main asset is the credibility it
- 22 -



has gained before the communities by delivering the commitments taken on during the participatory
processes without compromising on the quality and standards of its interventions.
Mechanisms for the poor to voice their transport needs are typically weak and should be improved,
especially at the local level. The project provided such an opportunity through the continuity of its
participation process. In turn, this continuous exposure strengthened the personal and collective
commitment of those involved in project activities, within PCR and the Bank and IDB team as well.
Common notions on what to expectfrom the involvement of the most impoverished rural communities in
NMT interventions require reformulation. NMT improvements are strategic interventions to reach the
most isolated and impoverished communities, but will do little to help households compose a more
sustainable and poverty reduction livelihood in the absence of other complementary interventions. For
households located in villages with NMT access only, household transport expenditures are significantly
lower than those households living in villages that benefit from road access. Meeting the most basic needs
(food, clothing, footwear, housing and fuel) takes on average between about 78 percent of the total
household expenditure for non poor households to about 91 percent for extreme poor households, while
expenditures on transport fall from about 5.9 percent for non poor households to about 1.7 percent for
extreme poor households, an indication that extreme poor households have limited mobility. As more
income becomes available, it seems that households may be in a position to allocate a greater share of it to
transportation, in order to get better returns on their assets or meet perceived needs that were suppressed
for lack of income opportunities. These figures expose the constraints faced by the poor living in those
areas, in terms of their capacity to invest in riskier activities but with higher returns. The perception of
isolation of these people goes beyond physical access constrains to encompass other multiple impacts
derived from information constraints (e.g., on market opportunities, availability of basic services), the lack
of cash-generating produce, and ancestral behaviors deeply rooted at the community level. Thus, bringing
isolated rural communities to the mainstream of economic activity, and more precisely, to markets (the
essence of a poverty eradication program) takes more than just improving infrastructure and access to basic
services. The confluence of activities that help develop human and social capital has the potential to
produce synergies and enhance probability of sustainable success, provided the activities are coordinated to
address the complex and intertwined problems deLterminant of poverty in a given location.
The benefits of NMT improvements were clearly perceived by the conmmunities, but proved extremely
difficult to quantify. The overwhelming support enjoyed by the NMT interventions is not commensurate
with the more limited social and economic benefits measured by the impact evaluation study or the
structured responses obtained from focus groups of beneficiaries of NMT improvements under the study.
The reasons behind this seeming mismatch are probably related to the social side effects of the program.
The feedback received stresses that the benefits brought by the program include: (i) improved safety for
both people and porter animals, the most significant factor highlighted by the beneficiaries; (ii) reductions
in travel times due to the removal of obstacles, which especially favors those who live farther away; (iii)
greater payloads with less damage to porter animals (which are valuable assets for these communities); and
(iv) strengthened capacity at the local level as a consequence of the technical assistance provided by the
PCR to the municipalities and by these to the "Comites Viales". Villagers valued the technical and
organizational skills acquired through the program. The use of NGOs with established credibility among
villagers enhanced side social effects, which often are central to attacking the multidimensional problems
behind poverty. For some communities, participating in a "Road Committee" meant having first time
access to a bank account and acquiring new organizational and technical skills. In retrospect, it seems that
the popularity of the NMT interventions builds on the effect of these interventions in overcoming the sense
of abandonment in which these communities live
- 23 -



Participatory planning is of the essence to mobilize support and identify the tracks for NMT improvement.
At a macro level, the demand for this non-motorized transport improvements has been large, but it might
have not materialized in the absence of consultation with villagers through the participatory workshops held
in 1996-1997. Municipal authorities fully acknowledged the positive outcome of the pilot and the better
service brought by the improved tracks. However, as noted by some of the NGOs involved in the pilot,
municipal authorities were not aware of the priority of improving NMT tracks prior to the project. At a
micro level, it is clear that only the communities will be able to set priorities among the ample number of
alternative routes that fulfill similar travel purposes.
Traditional community structures have demonstrated capacity to carry out the works, but maintenance
sustainability remains a concern. Communities formed "Comites Viales" to undertake the improvement
works and look after the track afterwards. The Committees relied on ancestral structures to assign on a
rotational basis the daily tasks and wages among workers. As beneficiaries had to contribute with at least
20 percent of the cost, workers were required to work for free during the Sunday faenas, and only those
who had participated in the faenas could undertake paid work. In some cases, committees expanded at
their own initiative the targets set under the contracts. (In Miska, for example, the community improved 0.9
km of tracks at their own cost, which represents a 20 percent increase over the contract target and more
than 15 days of free work). Precisely, one of the issues explored in a social assessment of the NMT
component was whether compensating the communities (albeit partially) for their work under the project
could weaken their willingness to undertake communal initiatives on their own (the collectivefaenas had
been traditionally remunerated providing coca and aguardiente). The study showed that a small
compensation in cash proved quite beneficial for it helped communities to strengthen their organizations
and cope with their staggering needs for cash (which is scarce in the highlands given the extensive use of
bartering). Communities and road committee members reinvested their savings in local undertakings,
improving their welfare and stimulating their local economies. Communities, when properly organized, can
better connect the benefits of improved access with their day-to-day needs, and even grasp the concept of"
transport network" to maximize impact. Strengthening community-based organizations enabled the
community to jump-start other development initiatives.
The project assumed that the Road Committees, after satisfactorily completing the improvement works,
would be able to undertake maintenance of their own. However, it is quite evident that the Road
Committees have failed to maintain the improved tracks, as maintenance work is not paid for under the
project. The way to overcome this unexpected behavior probably relies on making a greater effort in
strengthening social capital/local institutions through NGOs trusted by the communities, planning for
longer interventions to widen the contact with the communities, boosting the engagement of municipal
authorities in organizing maintenance activities, and devising incentive mechanisms (e.g., cash or food) for
maintenance delivery at least on a seasonal basis. These strategies will be further explored and tested in the
second phase of the RRP.
The Project Appraisal Document for the follow on Second Rural Roads Project provides a thorough discussion of lessons learned from other
sources, which are relevant for designing rural accessibility improvements with greater impact on reducing rural poverty. In addition to those learned
from the (first) project, the sources included a review of Bank experience on rural roads projects carried out by OED, recent Bank sector work on the
links between poverty and transport and how transport operations can contribute to poverty reduction supporting either directly or indirectly
approaches, and lessons from consultations with the poor and from Peru's on-going National Poverty Fora.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Annex 10 includes the Borrower's retrospective assessment of the project. The Borrower's opinion about
the project stresses the positive accomplishment in reaching a large number of impoverished people in the
- 24 -



highlands of Peru and the expected improvement in their livelihoods. In its comments, the Borrower
reflects on the persistent efforts that must be carried forward to ensure the sustainability of the project's
outcomes, in particular as it refers to financial resources to support the maintenance of the rehabilitated
roads and the expansion of the program to other departments and regions of Peru. The Borrower correctly
highlights the need to strengthen the managerial and financial capacity of the municipalities as they are the
entities that must ultimately assume the responsibility of maintaining the rural roads.
In the Borrower's opinion, the factor that largely affected the delay in project implementation was the tight
fiscal policy enforced by the Ministry of Economy in the period 1999-2000. The constrained budget
situation reduced the pace of implementation requiring a one-year extension to fully disburse the credit and
achieve (surpassing) the project's development objectives. This situation also forced delays in contractual
payments to maintenance micro-enterprises, straining their performance. Nevertheless, the physical and
institutional objectives of the project were amply surpassed, particularly with respect to the number of
kilometers of rural roads rehabilitated (18% above the initial estimates) and of NMT tracks (more than
double the initial estimates).
The Borrower also highlights the lack of an integrated information system, capable of handling reliable data
on a variety of project outputs, outcomes and side effects, as a shortcoming that must be addressed in the
future. This deficiency hampered a more effective monitoring of the project's outcomes and rested
efficiency in tracking the various measures of performance and assessing the expected econornic worthiness
of subprojects. The lack of a base line from which to compare the impacts of the sub-projects also
diminished the capabilities of generating knowledge about project performance and the possibilities of
further increasing the ultimate impacts of sub-projects.
The Borrower's states that the frequent time lag between the completion of economic and technical studies
and the contracting and execution of the works (also effected by the presence of the rainy season) rested
effectiveness in the implementation of the project. More precise definition of timetable of activities and
stronger specialized support in the design and maintenance of an information system would have positively
contributed in this respect.
All these comments cannot overshadow the Borrower's strong assessment of the project and the generated
impacts, particularly those related to the completion at a lower cost of the rehabilitation costs,
improvements to the accessibility of the communities, the design of sustainable maintenance methods, and
foremost the establishment of effective participatory mechanisms that allowed to create an integrated vision
of the transport needs in the communities and address those needs with their strong ownership and support.
The Borrower recognize however that further efforts must be undertaken in strengthening the managerial,
technical and financial capabilities at the municipal level. As part of this effort, the Borrower stresses the
continuous support to the maintenance micro-enterprises as an initiative that has opened up new
opportunities to the communities and has been a catalyst for the creation of micro-enterprises for the
provision of other services.
Regarding the participation of the Bank and the IDB in project preparation and implementation, the
Borrower identifies three key positive aspects: (a) good interpersonal relations among staff of the two
multilateral organizations and of those with the government officials; (b) the identification of the World
Bank staff with the project objectives and the frequent participation in site visits; and (c) the
multidisciplinary and complementary skills provided by the two banks. They again single out the need to
support the development of a reliable information system as an area that both banks could have helped
strengthen for more effective project implementalion and monitoring.
- 25 -



(7') Cofinanciers:
The comments provided by the IDB team are attached in Annex 11. They highlight the positive outcome of
the project and the adequacy of its design, especially its flexibility to accommodate changing local realities
and incorporate lessons learned throughout implementation. The comments also stress the negative effect
of the lack of progress in decentralization, which in a manner limited the achievement of the project's
institutional goals. IDB commends the satisfactory performance of PCR throughout project design, and the
effective partnership established with the Bank.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
For preparation of this Learning ICR, some partners from civil society who had been involved in project
activities were asked to comment from their perspective on the several aspects such as the project overall
approach to rural poverty alleviation, beneficiary participation, use of synergies, etc. The responses
highlighted the use of precise criteria for targeting and selecting project interventions and the attention to
the social impacts and side effects, as elements that tend to be neglected in traditional "hard" infrastructure
projects. Partners pointed to the micro-enterprise program as a good example of how to design a project
intervention to meet "technical" needs (cost-effective delivery of maintenance) and at the same time promote
social development at the community level. Stakeholder participation was considered beneficial, especially
for the respect shown to local authorities and the avoidance of overlapping in decision making, although
community representation in some of the workshops could have been improved. All the comments stressed
the importance of establishing effective partnerships with public and private development programs, as a
requisite to strengthen the sustainability of poverty reduction strategies. Without external assistance, even
the initiatives so successfully launched by the micro-enterprises are likely to fail. The inter-institutional
relationship between State and civil society worked well under the project, in spite of a difficult political
context that strained the interactions and development initiatives with local governments. Another
comment referred to the need to deepen knowledge of the cultural framework to better tailor project
interventions to the social realities that mediate the achievement of the intended benefits; in particular, the
project would have benefited from having from the onset a clear policy on gender, access of vulnerable
groups to the project activities, and their participation in the benefits brought by the project.
10. Additional Information
The Project Appraisal Document for a Second Rural Roads Project, dated May 25, 2001, contains
additional information about the Rural Roads Program.
- 26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome ! Impact Indicators: 
IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected In last PSR                  ActuallLatest Estinate
At project end:
1.5 million beneficiaries in the project areas  3.5 million                  2.8 million of direct beneficiaries and 0.7
interlinked by a reliable and affordable                                      million of indirect beneficiaries.
transportation system
30% reduction in freight and passenger  On average, in nominal terms (without  Same. Indicators measured through the
tariffs reported in socio-economic studies for accountng for inflation in spite of sizeable   Economic, Social and Environmental Impact
road subprojects completed in previous year increase in price of gasoline and diesel): (i)  Evaluation Study (Surveys performed in
about 15% reduction on freight rates for  March 2000)
trucks (compares with 1.2% reducion along
"control roads"); (ii) about 13.9%, 12.9% and
9% increase on passenger rates for cars,
vans and buses respectively (compares with
33.5%, 33.6% and 23% increase along
"control roads").
30% increase in commercial traffic reported  On average, commercial traffic increased by  Same. Indicators measured through the
in the socio-economic studies and passenger 153% (vans/small buses), 76% (buses) and  Economic, Social and Environmental Impact
for road subprojects completed two years    22% (trucks)                      Evaluabon Study.
before
25,000 one-year equivalent seasonal    About 32,300 temporary jobs (rehabilitation   About 32,300 temporary jobs (rehabilitation
unskilled jobs and 2,800 one-year equivalent works) and about 4,300 permanent jobs  works) and about 4,700 permanent jobs
permanent jobs                        (maintenance microenterprises)         (maintenance microenterprises)
300 small and medium-size contractors  403 microenterprises, 12 in formation  410 micro-enterprises delivering
involved in project activities                                                maintenance services
Output Indicators:                    ___ _
Indloator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSRI                 Actual/Laest Estimatl
Rehabilitabon of rural roads           8,882 km                               8,882 km
Rehabilitation of key connecting roads  2,368 km                             2,368 km
(primary and secondary roads)
Maintenance of rural roads and key     10,881 km                              10,881 km
connectng roads
Improvement of Village Streets         174 km                                 174 km
Improvement of Village Tracks for     3,053 km                                3,053 km
Non-Motorized Transport
End of project
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million   ___ :_________
Rehabilitation of Rural Roads                        88.50          108.73           122.9
Rehabilitation of Primary and Secondary Roads        45.78           32.33            70.6
Road Maintenance                                      16.28          37.93           232.9
Village Streets Improvement                          24.19           20.82            86.1
Non-Motorized Transport Tracks Improvement            2.95            7.07           239.7
Consultant Services (Preinvestment Studies/Supervision)  22.17       29.80           134.5
Institutional Building                                9.32            6.86            73.6
Project Management Costs                              11.56          20.49           177.2
Total Baseline Cost                                 220.75          264.03
Physical Contingencies                               17.74
Price Contingencies                                  11.74
Total Project Costs            250.23          264.03
Total Financing Required             250.23          264.03
Project Costs by Procuremet Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category      ICB          et            0ther2        NA.B ___ _o_t_
1. Works                      0.00         52.60         153.00        0.00        205.60
(0.00)       (20.00)       (56.00)       (0.00)       (76.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)  (      0.00)  (      0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         32.63         0.00         32.63
(0.00)        (0.00)       (14.00)       (0.00)       (14.00)
Project Management Costs      0.00          0.00                       12.00        12.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         ()          (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      0.00          52.60        185.63        12.00        250.23
(0.00)       (20.00)       (70.00)       (0.00)       (90.00)
- 28 -



roect Costs b  Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB            NC8           Othere          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         10.89           0.00          195.99          0.00          206.88
(4.63)         (0.00)         (66.97)        (0.00)        (71.60)
2. Goods                          0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)    _   (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                                      0.00           36.66          0.00          36.66
()           (0.00)         (15.17)        (0.00)        (15.17)
Project Management Costs         0.00            0.00           0.00           20.49         20.49
.                                (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         10.89           0.00          232.65          20.49         264.03
(4.63)         (0.00)         (82.14)        (0.00)        (86.77)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
i'Includes civil works procured through national shopping (contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000), direct
contracting with community-based organizations (contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000), consulting services
and training.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appras
Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt       CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Rehabilitation of Road    38.91     24.21      38.91     41.17      25.64      41.92    105.8  105.9  107.7
Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of Primary    20.31   12.64     20.31      12.56      6.87      12.90    61.8   54.4   63.5
and Secondary Roads
Road Maintenance          4.86       9.39      4.86       7.39      21.32      9.22     152.1  227.1  189.7
Village Street            10.60      6.60      10.60      7.76       4.91      8.14     73.2   74.4   76.8
Improvement
NMT Track Improvement      1.32      0.82      1.32       2.71       1.54      2.82    205.3  187.8  213.6
Consultant Services       9.85       3.54      9.85       12.19      6.24      11.37    123.8  176.3  115.4
(Pre-investment Studies
and Supervision)
Institutional Building and  4.15     1.49      4.15       2.98       0.86      3.02     71.8   57.7   72.8
Training
Project Management Costs    0.00     11.56     0.00       0.00       19.88     0.61      0.0   172.0   0.0
and Surveillance
- 29 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic evaluation of the subprojects of the RRP was part of the eligibility criteria that consisted of a
process of steps designed to ensure that the selected sub-projects enjoy the agreement and ownership of the
affected communities, are technically sound, and respond to a great extent to the needs of poor areas and/or
to their expected economic benefits. This process responded to a bottom-up approach in the identification
of sub-projects and their ultimate management, and a top-down approach in checking compliance with
selected criteria and the provision of technical assistance to local partners.
An economic evaluation was undertaken for a sample of subprojects following the producers' surplus
approach. This approach relates the rehabilitation and maintenance costs of a sub-project with the benefits
that the sub-project would bring in terms of increases in net agricultural and livestock production (net of
local consumption and production costs). This methodology entails the definition of certain assumptions
about future increases in agricultural and livestock production and productivity as a consequence of the
rehabilitation of rural roads. These assumptions-revised from those at appraisal-were built upon the
results of the impact survey. A benchmark of 10% was establish as the minimum economic rate of return
for a project to be eligible.
The impact survey showed a noticeable increase in the benefits derived from better access to social services
(particularly, health) and the better opportunities for social interrelations. The percentage of trips related to
these benefits in the impact survey amounts to about 40 percent while those for labor and economic
activities amount to 54%. The assumptions adopted for the application of the producers' surplus approach
are in line with the results of the impact survey, though they reflect the hypothesis (still to be proved) that
net production benefits as a consequence of improvements in accessibility require a reasonable time frame
to be realized. The following conservative values have been adopted for the analysis of sub-projects in the
second phase of the RRP: (a) an increase of 7.5% in the number of livestock (to take place in year 3),
though maintaining the same level of net benefits per unit of livestock; (b) an increase of 5% (to take place
in year 3) in the overall agricultural area for the key agricultural products in the area of influence of the
subproject; and (c) a decrease of 5% in the costs of production for either agricultural or livestock-related
products (to take place in year 3). No adjustments were made to the agricultural yields or to farm gate
prices.
On the basis of these assumptions, the producers' surplus approach was applied to a representative sample
of 36 sub-projects completed under the first phase (representing about 20% of the investments in the
rehabilitation of rural roads and in the number of kilometers rehabilitated). In the application of this
approach, adjustments were made to reflect prevailing values for production in the rural areas of the
Peruvian Sierra as reported by the Agricultural and Livestock Census of 1994. (This Census provides
information on the number of rural inhabitants of the provinces in the Peruvian Sierra and the production of
agricultural products and the raising of livestock.) On the basis of this information, production and
productivity ratios were obtained and applied to adjust the values reported in the relevant studies. The
results of the analysis yield a prorated (by the cost of the investments) economic rate of return (ERR) of
25% and a net present value (NPV) of US$20 million, or about US$1 per US$ invested in the rehabilitation
of those roads. Thirty percent of the projects presented ERR less than the required minimum of 10%.
These sub-projects however did show positive NPVs at the 10% discount rate when the assumptions
established at the beginning of the first phase are held. Under these conditions, with productivity (yields)
increased by 10% (in year 3) all the sub-projects except one would present ERRs greater than 10% and the
overall combined ERR would increase to 48% and the NPV per US$ invested in rehabilitation to 2.6.
These two values are similar to those obtained at appraisal for a representative sample of sub-projects:
44% and 2.4.
- 30 -



The combined NPV of the representative sample of sub-projects would remain positive even if,
independently, the area of production does not increase (though the number of sub-projects with positive
NPVs would be reduced to only 12%) or if livestock production does not increase or if no reductions take
place in production costs (with an increase to 44% in the number of cases with negative NPV at a 10%
discount rate).
The results of the analysis must be looked upon with some caution as the reliability of the information
regarding the values for the variables related to production and productivity in rural areas from the initial
socio-economic studies was low (though they were adjusted through their comparison with the latest
agricultural and livestock census of 1994) and the results of the impact survey appears not to have captured
the possible longer-term changes in agricultural production. The results of the impact survey for the first
phase of the program has shown the apparent paradox that significant improvements in the conditions of
travel, from reductions in travel times and distances to enhancements in the provision of transport services
have accompanied improvements in access to certain social services but have not yet translated into more
specific economic benefits (such as noticeable improvements in agricultural productivity or in general
agricultural production). The hypothetical explanation is that the impacts from investments in transport
infrastructure, such as rural roads, may take time before they translate into noticeable effects on income
growth and human development. This hypothesis is expected to be tested during the implementation of the
second phase of the program.
- 31 -



Table 1. Key Economic and Cost Variables for Representative Sample of First Phase Sub-
Projects
No.                                  Costo      Costo                  NPV
No.    benef.   Costo rehab.   Costo rehab.  inversion    mant.               (USS000)
Na. Nombre proyecto                     Departamento  No. kms   benef.   per km        USS          USS/km     por benef   USSlkm      ERR        @10%
1 Puente Parco-Cotaparaco-Allpacocha    Ancash          62.5    3,463       55      $1,010,404      $16,156       $304    $1,566      <10%          ($346)
2 Punta Callan-Cons-Huallan /Succha-    Ancash          93.3    4,248       46      $1,031,948      $11,065       $296    $1,200      <10%          ($554)
Huayan
3 Haquiray Mara                      Apurlmac           31.3   11,999      383       $427,445       $13,656        $36    $1,200       23%           $236
4 Casinchihua-ChalhunilCasinrchihua-  Apurimac          74.8    8,499      114       $980,185       $13,097       $133    $1,200      <10%          ($216)
ChacochelYaca-SircalSuncho-
CaiperTamburco-Queropata/Saywite-
Concacha
5 Ocobamba, Ongot, Huaccana          Apunmac            44.9   29,322      654       $619,942       $13,819        $26    $1,200      >50%          $1,542
6 CaminoVecinal Tintay-Lucre         Apurimac            6.8      662       97       $100,501       $14.758       $152    $1,200       21%            $42
7 CaminoVecinalChacapente-Soraya     Apurimac            5.7      395       69        $60,860       $10.659       $154    $1,200       19%            $22
8 CaminoVecinalChaya-Sasfayca        Apunmac            10.7      409       38       $120,166       $11,273       $294    $1,200       11%             $4
9 Pucara-Laramate                    Ayacucho           20.5    2,540      124       $308,055       $15,000       $121    $1,200       13%            $31
10 Camals - Huac-huas                 Ayacucho           54.2    2,800       52       $468,052        $8,631       $289    $1,000      <10%           ($77)
11 Palpa-Saramate-Ocaha-Laramate      Ayacucho           74.6    3.367       45       $6181382        $6,290       $289    $1,200      <10%          ($144)
12 Carretera (Chota-La Palme-Chadin)  Cajamarca          23.9    9,968      418       $275,683       $11.559        $41    $1,200       50%           $580
Querocoto-Ouerocobllo
13 Cajamarca-San Pablo                Cajamarca         120.7   17,702      147     $1,741,149       $14,424       $116    $1,200       22%           $787
14 Cutervo-Socota/Socota-San Luisde   Cajamarca          66.7   10,934      164       $582,364        $8,726        $76    $1,200       29%           $482
LucmalSocota-San Andres de Cutervo
15 Colquepata-Paurcartambo            Cusco              25.6      400       16       $297,169       $11,608       $743      $710      <10%           ($35)
16 Yaunsque- Huanoquite               Cusco              30.9    8,996      292       $422,502       $13.695        $60    $1,200       27%           $307
17 Carretera lzcuchaca - Cruzpata     Cusco              13.2    7,028      530       $165,984       $12.529        $35    $1,200      >50%           $495
18 Chuquicahuana-Acomayo              Cusco              62.6    6,864      110       $546,151        $8,730       $128    $1,200       39%           $779
19 Empalme Ruta 101-Huallhua-Huanbamba Huancavelica      26.0    8,917      343       $217,742        $8,378        $24    $1,200      >50%           $868
20 Palca-Tantara                      Huancavelica       24.9    1,047       42       $261,563       $10,488       $250    $1,200      <10%           ($51)
21 Palca-Arma-Arahua-Chupamarca       Huancavelica       57.9    1.944       34       $661,807       $11,436       $340    $1,000      <10%          ($172)
22 Carretera Higueras - Yarumayo-Chaulan Huanuco         33.9    1,567       46       $476,297       $14,082       $304    $1.200      <10%          ($126)
23 TomayKichwa -Conchamarca           Huanuco            15.0    2.176      145       $366,108       $24,407       $168    $1.172       28%           $277
24 Llicllatambo-Pachas                Huanuco            24.0    7,292      304       $516,616       $21,511        $71    $1,200       17%           $132
25 Sapalanga-Huayucachi-Viques-Chupuro- Junin            82.1   17,176      209      $1,006,399      $12,255        $65    $1,373       42%          $1,577
Coica-Chicche-Desv. Mitopampa-Colca-
Cshicche
26 Mazamary-Llayila                   Junin              10.9    2,345      216       $114,197       $10,525        $49    $1,200      >50%           $378
27 Satipo-Coviriali-Llaylla-Capiro    Junin              27.8   12,617      455       $504,472       $18,179        $40    $1,200      >50%          $2,654
28 Vitoc-Monobamba                    Junin              26.2    2,913      111       $332,209       $12,704       $114    $1,200       19%           $113
29 Pto.Maldonado-infiemo              MadredeDios        24.0      876       37       $482,660       $20,111       $551    $1,200      <10%          ($138)
30 LaJoya.Chonta                      Madre de Dios       8.8      635       73       $137,84        $15,754       $217    $1.200       10%             $2
31 Mazuco-Puerto Mazuco-Punquin-      Madre de Dios      25.9    5,944      230       $634,532       $24,537       $107    $1,200       10%             $9
Huepethue
32 Pallanchacr-Sta. Anade Tusi        Pasco             117A      5.965      51      $1,796,737      $15,318       $302    51,200      <10%          (3277)
Goyllarisqulzga-Chadayan
33 Oxapampa-Chontabamba-Abra San      Pasco              69.0   35,415      513      $1,057,815      $15,324        $30    $1,200      >50%          $7,257
Gotardo-Puente Milagro
34 Calapuia-Nicasio-Laro-Jose 0.      Puno               52.9   16,392      310       $823,866       $11,800        $38    $1,200       27%           $458
Choquehuanca
35 Yaurisque - Huanoquite             Puno               30.0    8.996      300       $398,559       $13,285        $60    $1,200      >50%          $1,829
36 Pomata-Crucero-Chutami e llave-Pharata Puno           83.3   19,564      235       $973,576       $11,685        $50    $1,200       46%          $1,747
Sla. RDsa de Huayllata
Total  1,562.7  281,377      180    $20,341,942       $13,017        $82    $1,201       25%        $20,271
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count          Specialty                     Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
8/1994                    3   HWY EGRS, TRANSP SPEC
10/1994                   6   HWY EGR, TRANSP EGR,
1TRANSP SPEC, TRANSP
ECON, ECON, PROC
10/1994                   2   ECON, HWY EGR
(IDB)
Appraisal/Negotiation
5/1995                    9   HIWY ENG, TRNSP EGR,
1TRANSP ECON, SOC,
P'ROC, ECON, ENVIR
SPEC, INST SPEC, PROC
5/1995                    3   HWY EGR, ECON, ENVIR
(IDB)                          SPEC
Supervision
3/1997                     3  HYW EGR, INST SPEC,                S              S
NGO SPEC
11/1997                    3  HIWY EGR, NGO SPEC, INST           S              S
SPEC
4/1998                     2  NGO SPEC, INST SPEC                S              S
9/1998                     3  HWY EGR, NGO SPEC, INST            S              S
SPEC
3/1999                     5  ]HWY EGR, ECON, INST SPEC,         S              S
NGO SPEC, OPER
10/1999                    3  HWY EGR, ECON, INST SPEC           S              S
10/2000                    3  HWY EGR, TRANS ECON,               S              S
MUN SPEC
ICR
4/2001                    2    HWY EGR, NGO SPEC                 S              S
4/2001                    2   TRANS ECON, ENV
(IDB)
- 33 -



(O) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                57.50                        149.10
Appraisal/Negotiation                     56.00                        143.84
Supervision                              114.25                       320.46
ICR                                        3.01                         12.35
Total                                    230.76                       625.76
Note:
The low cost of the ICR stage is not indicative of the cost of the activities performed for its preparation since most
of the activities and studies were carried out in the context of project supervision and appraisal of the follow on
Second Rural Roads Project, which provided the funding under their respective budgets.
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                               O H OSUOM O N * NA
Sector Policies                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Physical                                      *H OSUOM O N O NA
] Financial                                    OH OSUOM O N * NA
X Institutional Development                    0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Environmental                                O H O SU *M O N O NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                     O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Gender                                 O H OSUOM O N O NA
O  Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Private sector development                   0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
X Public sector management                     0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O  Other (Please specify)                      O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Note:
The poverty reduction achievement is rated as "Substantial" in spite of the difficulty in establishing the
conterfactual, because the project prevented a further deterioration of poverty indicators, withstanding a deep
economic downturn. This finding is consistent with evidence from other countries that suggests that whenever
there is a downturn in GDP poverty increases substantially and whenever there is an increase in GDP poverty
declines only gradually. Also, the apparently modest net reduction of poverty measured under the impact
evaluation study is partly explained by the short maturation period between project interventions and the evaluation
of their indirect impact on poverty. The indicators measured, however, suggest that this impact has a strong
potential to grow with time.
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
a Lending                                            * HSOS OU OHU
LI Supervision                                       *HS OS  OU  OHU
FI Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
L Preparation                                        * HS O S  O  U  O HU
L Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 s  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
LI Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  0 HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Cuanto. "Economic, Social, Environmental and Institutional Evaluation of the Rural Road Program" July
2000.
Cuanto. "Evaluaci6n de los Impactos Socio-Econ6micos generados durante lafase de rehabilitaci6n de
los caminos rurales - Estudio de Caso: Kiteni". December 1999
Centro. "Estudio de los Efectos de los Caminos Rurales en las Relaciones de Genero. Final Report.
August 1999.
Escobar, Javier. "Impacto del Proyecto de Caminos Rurales: un Analisis Complementario". Mimemo,
October 2000
Ore, Teresa. "El Impacto Socio-Cultural del Programa Caminos de Herradura 1995-2000". 1999
Maximize. "Estudio sobre la capacidad institucional Financiera de los Municipios con el objetivo de
establecer la sostenibilidad del sistema vial de caminos rurales" March 1999Cuanto. "Economic,
Social, Environmental and Institutional Evaluation of the Rural Road Program" July 2000.
Cuanto. "Evaluaci6n de los Impactos Socio-Econ6micos generados durante lafase de rehabilitaci6n de
los caminos rurales - Estudio de Caso: Kiteni". December 1999
Centro. "Estudio de los Efectos de los Caminos Rurales en las Relaciones de Genero. Final Report.
August 1999.
Escobar, Javier. "Impacto del Proyecto de Caminos Rurales: un Andlisis Complementario". Mimemo,
October 2000
Ore, Teresa. "El Impacto Socio-Cultural del Programa Caminos de Herradura 1995-2000". 1999
Maximize. "Estudio sobre la capacidad institucional Financiera de los Municipios con el objetivo de
establecer la sostenibilidad del sistema vial de caminos rurales" March 1999
- 37 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
The Project Area. There are huge welfare disparities across Peru, but there is a heavy concentration of
poverty along the most geographically adverse regions, as in the sierra and the selva (Table 1). Although
these welfare disparities can be partly attributed to geography, they are also related to a significant
dispersion in access to infrastructure and other public assets. As the availability of infrastructure is
constrained by geography, the more adverse geographic regions are the ones with less access to public
infrastructure. This has implications for policy design since the larger the area effects the stronger the
rationale for investing in the physical and social infrastructure of poor areas.
Table 1: Population's Poverty Level By Regions Surveyed (%)
(Poverty line criterion)
Total  Northern  Central Southern  Jungle
Highland Highland Highland  Jungle
TOTAL                     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Total Poor                  70.1     64.1      65.4     76.7      73.6
1. Extremely Poor         34.6      25.1     25.3      44.8      45.8
2. Not Extremely Poor     35.5      39.0      40.2     31.9      27.8
Not Poor                    29.9     35.9      34.6     23.3      26.4
Source: Cuanto, 2000
The project was targeted to investments in the 12 departments that rank among the highest in rural poverty:
Ancash, Apurimac, Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Cuzco, Huancavelica, Huanuco, Junin, Madre de Dios, Pasco,
Puno and San Martin. Most of the project area encompassed the highlands of Peru, where any rural
intervention can be considered targeting the poor. Nevertheless, within those 12 departrnents, the project
targeted those regions (districts) with high prevalence of rural poverty, as measured by indicators such as
unsatisfied basic needs or infant mortality rates. Table 2 shows some social and basic needs indicators
weighed by population for districts in the project area benefited and not yet benefited by the RRP during
the first phase. The comparison stresses the strong poverty focus of this first phase.
Table 2: Main Social Indicators for Project Area - 1995
Indicator           Districts within PROJECT
(Average for 12 departments)           area
All  Covered Not cov.
Rural Population (%) (2)         54.9   70.2    50.7
Health     Malnutrition Rate     57.9   63.6    56.3
Education  Adult Illiteracy Rate   23.7    30.0    22.0
Student Absenteeism    14.3    16.7    13.7
Housing   Overcrowded housing   32.4   35.3    31.6
Precarious housing    28.4    34.4    26.7
Services   No water in dwelling   72.7    85.0    69.3
No sanitation         79.1    90.1    76.1
No electricity        65.5    79.8    61.6
(2) Percentage of rural population for entire country = 30.2
Source: Social Indicators from FONCODES.
Table 3 gives a snapshot of the project area in terms of number of districts covered during the first phase of
- 38 -



the RRP by poverty level. The RRP has been implemented in about 314 municipalities. Half of these
municipalities fall within the category of "very poor", 32 percent of "poor", 10 percent of "extreme poor",
and 8 percent of "non poor" (that is, 92% of the districts within which roads were rehabilitated under the
RRP present high rural poverty indicators). In terms of the length of the network already rehabilitated and
the total length in each department, the first phase has covered slightly above 31 percent of the total rural
network for the 12 departments. Most of the rehabilitated rural roads connect with the district capital cities
and with other rural and secondary roads, with a small percentage connecting directly to the primary
(national) network or paved roads.
Table 3: Districts Covered and Rural Roads Rehabilitated during First Phase of RRP
Regionsl           Districts Covered by Poverty Level   N" of Districts in Project Area.      Rural Road Network
Departments      Fair  Poor   Very  Extr.  Total    Total      %         Extreme poor     Total        Rehabilitated
Poor  Poor                    Covered  Total  % covered    (kcm)        (khn)     (54)
Northern Highland    1    18    22       0      41      127     32%        2      0%/0      3,559.00    1,364.78  38.35%
Cajamarca            1    18    22       0      41      127     32%        2      0%/o      3,559.00    1,364.77  38.35%
Central Highland   16    41      66    11    134       484     28%        53    21%       13,138.40    3,843.82  29.26%
Ancash               3     14    30      2      49      166     30%        13    15%        2,590.00    1,236.17  47.73%
Huancavelica               9      17     0      26       93     28%        7      0%/0     2,485.60     917.59  36.92%
Huanuco              4     2      10     9      25       74     34%       31    29%         1,805.20    795.68  44.08%
Junin                9     10      6     0      25      123     20%        2      00%      4,847.20     618.35  12.76%
Pasco                      6       3     0       9       28     32%        0                1,410.40    276.03  19.57%
Southern Highland    7    34      56    22    119       405     29%       99    22%        10,127.90    3,136.47  30.97%
Apurimac                   11    18    11    40          80     50%        23    48%        1,855.00    958.93  51.69%
Ayacucho             1    12    17       2      32      109     29%        18    11%        2,782.50    951.20  34.19%
Cusco                1     6       9     9      25      108     23%       30    30%/o      2,866.80     683.03  23.83%
Puno                 5     5      12     0      22      108     20%       28      0%       2,623.60     543.31   20.71%
Jungle          1      7     12      0     20       87     23%        12     0%        1,727.60    536.98  31.08%
Madrede Dios                1      2     0       3       10     30%         3     0%/6       598.00     190.95  31.93%
San Martin           1      6     10     0      17       77     22%         9     0%        1,129.60    346.03  30.63%
TOTAL          25   100    156    33    314       1103     28%       166    20%       28,552.90    8,882.05  31.11%
Percentage         8%  .32%    509/D  10%   100%
Source: Based on data from FONCODES' Poverty Map, PCR's project records, and DGC's statistics.
Creating Opportunities through Community-based Micro-enterprises. The project has set up a
cost-effective routine maintenance system based on contracting out labor-intensive maintenance works to
micro-enterprises, local cooperatives and other community-based organizations. Although the composition
of the micro-enterprises varies according to the length of the road, their average size is about 13 people and
the average length of the road covered under a contract is about 34.6 km  (an average of 2.65 km per
person). All micro-enterprises have a legal status; most of them are cooperatives or associations and as
such are required to reinvest their profits in businesses undertaken by the association. So far there are no
indications that the different legal status may translate into differences in their performance or their
incentives to jump-start new activities. Micro-enterprises are required to keep books, pay taxes and submit
financial information to SUNAT. Box 1 provides a colorful illustration of the social dimensions of the
micro-enterprise program. The following paragraphs describe main features of this successful program,
- 39 -



the outcomes achieved so far, and the intended evolution of the program under the second phase of the
Rural Roads Program.
o1 are the new (micro) entrepreneurs? Typically, micro-enterprises are made up of 11 to 20 people
living close to the road.. Women participation has been low --on average about 4%, but much larger in
some departer ents (e.g., Puno and Madre de Dios, about 8 and 21 percent respectively) reflecting variations
in gender relations. The distribution by age shows  36% between 18-30 years old, 46 percent between
31t 45  years old, and 18 percent older than 45. To ensure their sustainability, the selection process has
sought a balanced level of education within each micro-enterprise: on average 37% of the members have
(complete or incomplete) secondary education, 60 percent have primary education only and 3% are
iliterate. In spite of suffering the liwitations iro posed by the woral envirok nent where they live (i.e., lack of
basic infrastructure such as electricity and water and managerial assistance services), they have developed
an "entrepreneur culture": they don't see themselves as worldng for a salary but rather as an autonomous
group that has the opportunity to capitalize savings through a maintenance contract and undertakes the
responsibility for the problems  that may arise in their daily activities, This is a tribute to the selection
process and the taining provided by PCR under the project, which emphasizes the development of
entrepreneur skills. PCR hired NGOs and social promoters to select the members through competitive
exapination. The process considered parameters such as residence close to the road, previous experience
in construction activities, social status (higher scores given to heads of families eanc ing less than Sbos00)
and a personal interview. In general, district mayors and cornmunity leaders led the convocation, which on
average attracted 40 to 60 persons per mico-enterpriset The promoter provided the initial basic training,
foftowed by SENSICO and later on, monitors hired by PCR to extend on-thejob training in engineering,
- 40 -



accounting and administration.
How are the micro-enterprises financed? The micro-enterprises are engaged through performance-based
contracts with PCR and paid on a monthly basis, subject to meeting the quality standards stipulated in the
contract. Majors approve the monthly certificates. From January 1, 2002 and on, municipalities will
contribute to defraying the cost of maintenance.. Micro-enterprise members designate their president and
an executive council, and determine how the monthly payment is allocated to the various uses (e.g., wages,
tools, rentals, transportation, savings, investment fund). On average, salaries account for 89 percent of the
expenditure, and profit margins average 14 percent. The maintenance contract amounts were revised
down in 2001 to reflect productivity gains and the realignment of maintenance responsibilities under
different contract modalities.
Outcome 1: An effective approach to rural road maintenance. Micro-enterprises carry out simple works
--but continuously throughout the year-- to clean ditches and culverts, control the vegetation, maintain the
running surface (filling potholes and ruts, maintaining the surface camber), remove small landslides and
undertake other emergency works. Project micro-enterprises have also demonstrated capacity to build
retaining walls and small bridges and handle El Nuino emergency works under the guidance of PCR. The
contracts are annual, renewable, and based on performance indicators. The micro-enterprise is not a
welfare program but a cost-effective way of keeping in good condition the roads rehabilitated and ensuring
the benefits from improved access will not vanished. The charts below provide an assessment of the
performance of the micro-enterprise system taken from the project impact evaluation study carried out in
2000. The results, presented in terms of road network condition (from very good to very poor) and
reliability of access (highly unsatisfactory to highly satisfactory), are compared to the ones achieved with
the mostly force account arrangements that characterize maintenance activities on similar roads in the
control section.
70                                          70
60       :. nterprise          others       60X
50                                          50  _________...__  =
30 ....  ..,  .   .... _   -J3- r               ...u;U-  ?    i>;30
20     B       1  7'-' _ __ _   i   i 20
10                               I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0                                           0
VG      G       F      P      VP             HU        U         S        HS
Outcome 2: Generation of long-term direct and indirect employment at the community level. The
program generates direct employment for micro-enterprise members, and indirect for others in community
who are engaged as temporary workers or in complementary productive activities started by the
micro-enterprises (see below). The micro-enterprise becomes a focal point for community work, as peer
pressure makes its members engage in, and lead communal activities to ensure continuous support from the
community. PCR's micro-enterprise program was selected as one of the innovative and cost-effective
approaches to creating job opportunities in a study commissioned in 2000 by the Secretariat of the
National Dialogue on Poverty. A sumnmary of the results and the conditions for success highlighted by the
-41 -



study follow:
An Independent Evaluation of the Micro-enterprise Program
NuberofW ME  398
Dfrec: Employment  4,524
CPer        rte   US$534
Coditionsfor  *  Appropriate selection of candidates
success  * t   Presence of leaders
V   Emphasis on entrepreneurial culture
.  Favorable economic conditions
Source:. SASE "Estrategias para Crear Oportunidades de Empleo ". III
Dialogo para el Desarrollo y Lucha Contra la Pobreza. October 2000
Outcome 3: Catalysts for other local development initiatives. The use of micro-enterprises has some
comparative advantages for further developing rural areas. The program creates entrepreneurial capacity
in the community. The micro-enterprises have acted as catalysts for other local development initiatives,
become contact points for extension services, and even mobilized untapped local resources for local
community ventures. So far, about 40 percent of the micro-enterprises have started productive activities,
bringing new services and stimulating labor markets in their communities. Most of these initiatives are
funded by profits generated through the maintenance contract and members' savings, although for certain
productive activities the micro-entrepreneurs were able to obtain credit from suppliers and even
contributions from donor agencies such as GTZ. The productive projects generate benefits that spill over
other community members. The benefits go well-beyond the up-keeping of roads.
Productive Activities by Maintenance Micro-enterprises:
Typical Activities Transportation services, seedbeds for traditional crops, livestock breeding,
nurseries, reforestation, grocery stores, small transforming businesses, grain milh
JOs per actvit   2 additional people, 92% men, 8% women.
G0rss revenue  Between 300 to 20 000 soles/year depending on the sector or industry the busines
generated  belongs to, its maturation, and the associates' expertise
Xan cing  On average 58% equity by members, 42% credit (but mostly from suppliers, GT2
Source: CuAnto. Economic, Social, Environmental and Institutional Evaluation of the PROJECT. 2000
These positive results hinge on the micro-enterprise opportunity to access a sustained income streamn
--secured through the maintenance contract with PCR, and technical assistance in areas such as accounting,
entrepreneurial skills. However, with an interruption rate estimated at around 22 percent, these results also
show how difficult is to succeed in a rural working environment. The main reasons for interruption range
from insufficient training and technical assistance (about 40%); lack of financing (about 24%); lack of
market (about 20%); and other reasons (16%).
-42 -



Box 2: Micro-enterprise Sustainability Issues to be addressed under the Second Rural Roads Project
*  Macro Issues (program level). Involving communities and developing private micro-enterprises increses the
capacity for road maintenance, and builds pressure over central and local governments to secure the continuity of
the maintenance program. The project secures a market for the services of the micro-entrprises and provides
continuous training. Securing long-term sustainability, however, entails transfering the program to the municipal
environment. The transfer to such an environment poses a challenge to the sustainability of the program as it
builds on increasing the revenue base of municipal govenuments, either through local sources or inter-
governmental transfers, to secure micro-enterpnse payments. Under the new co-financing arangement,
municipalities are required to contribute with about 50 percent of the cost.
*  Micro Issues. Communities strongly support the program, but this support might erode with time if the benefits
accrued to rnicro-entreprise members do not spill over the rest of the community. Productive activities started by
the microenterprises at their own initiative may help enhance "social" sustainability by stengthening the financial
position of the micro-enterprises, opening up opportunities for other commnunity residents, and facilitating the
renewal of micro-enterprise members as they become wealthier. However, the form of association (a non-profit
cooperative) under which most of the micro-enterprises were conformed and the way micro-enterprises have
organized and financed the productive activities might create incentives against the natural renewal of members.
Micro-enterprises have relied on a mix of profits and personal wages to firance their new undertakings outside
the maintenance contract. The portion coming from the micro-enterprise profits should have been differentiated
from that coming from salaries (the latter should have been treated as personal equity contributions, which
beneficiaries could take with them as they decide to leave the mnicroenterprise.
*  Streengthening Sustainability. An on-going study will explore several options to address the above issues. The
options aimed at: i) facilitwing the transfer to the local environment (e.g., reducing costs by increasing
productivity or scaling down the level of service albeit without compromising year-round passability); ii)
strengthening the sustainability of complementary productive activities; iii) fostering greaterparticipation by the
community in sharing the benefits of productive projects and aligning compensation levels with the oppomunity
cost of labor in the agriculture market; iv) opening up for competition or for new micro-enterprises those
contracts with micro-enterprises that have become strong enough to continue on their own working as small
contractors or managing their own productive activities.
Micro-enterprises under the Second Phase of the RRP. Building on the experience gained so far, an
on-going study will explore several adjustments to further increase the cost-effectiveness of the
microe-enterprise program and strengthen its long-term sustainability. A first step is the introduction of
different maintenance costs and type of contracts, varying them on the basis of certain road functional and
physical features that deterrnine the intensity of the workload and redefining their scope and compensation
levels to further increase productivity and flexibility to work under the tight resource constraints that
characterize the local government environment. The study will also strengthen monitoring and reporting
systems in response to the stronger accountability lines required by the MCM. Finally, in a second stage
the study will address those sustainability issues discussed in Box 2.
Improving Tracks for Non-Motorized Transport to Reach the Very Poor. The comunidades
campesinas of the highlands are widely dispersed due to a variety of historical reasons, among which stand
out the scarcity of agriculture resources, the need to balance production activities in different ecological
floors and the accessibility constraints imposed by an extremely rugged topography. Altogether, they have
conditioned the communication and trade patterns of Andean communities, who have traditionally relied on
a dynarnic system of local and regional fairs to trade their products and meet their external comnmunication
needs. In the context of the evolving social assessment, a study commissioned to an anthropologist
examined cultural and peasant organizational dimensions as well as their linkage with commerce and
markets, in an effort to identify what type of assistance is needed for communities to fully realize the
benefits expected from improved access and transport services. The evidence collected through the NMT
pilot has shown that the perception of isolation goes beyond physical access constrains to encompass other
multiple impacts derived from information constraints, the lack of cash-generating produce, and ancestral
- 43-



behaviors deeply rooted at the community level.
Outcome 1: Improving Accessibility. Focus groups opinions have underscored the benefits of better access
to basic social services (education and health) . In other aspects, the general opinion is that they have not
experienced any change. Any community mentioned as a benefit the raising of farm products' prices, which
is obviously linked to the above-mentioned context. Besides, security aspects (not only for people but also
for animals) and integration to the road networks and to other conmnunities (which do not appear in the
table), were mentioned as the most impacted aspects thanks to road rehabilitation Designing cost-effective
NMT interventions requires an in-depth understanding of spatial patterns and travel behaviors at the
community level and of the transport market for NMT services. The specific purpose of these trips
translate into well-established travel patterns. The trips concentrates on certain days of the week, and in
some itineraries they are limited to certain times of the day --during early morning hours or even the night
in those that because of their low altitude the weather may become too warm and harmful for people and
animals. Night traffic implies removing those obstacles that porter animals will not negotiate in the dark.
The size of the informal network may extend from three to five hours, to one or two days. As a comunero
noted in one of the field visits, "we need to take our products to the various markets in the region, because
otherwise we will crowd the local market and prices will plummet". As trips can take more than one day,
improvements may need to include building tambos, where people can rest and store their goods during the
longest trips. The lack of common roadside storage facilities is a major constraint for the development of
an efficient intermodal transport system that combines farm-roadside non-motorized transport with
roadside-market motorized transport.
Outcome 2: Rebuilding of Social Capital at the Community Level. The program has helped rebuild social
capital (Box 3). Villagers value the technical and organizational skills acquired through the program. The
use of NGOs with established credibility among villagers enhance side social effects, which often are
central to attacking the multidimensional problems behind poverty.
- 44 -



BoDY 3. Rebuilding Soeial Capital in Remote Communities
OTAR (Oficina Ticnica de Apoyo Rura), an NGO located in Ayacucho, was chosen by PCR to develop the non-
motorized component in Sacsamarca. The region was desolated by more than ten years of political violence. OTAR'
points out that one of the most devastating aspets of terrorism was the weakening of the communai anestral
organization, hindering its capacity to plan and carry out "community projects". The formation of the nine Comites
Viales Rurales (CVR) to undertake the planning, execution and maintenance of the works for rehabilitaton of the non-
motorized tracks supports this ancestral form of organization. The CVRs have demonstrated capacity to carry out
drainage improvements, widen platforms, build retaining walls and small bridges, and remove obstacles using
explosives if necessary. According to OTAR, by reinforcing the ancestral organizations the CVRs bave alsojump-
started other community projects that were commuon practice in the past but were abandoned because of political
violence.
One of the CVRs is "Virgen de Encarnaci6n', who was responsible for canying out the improvements of about 17 kam
of NMT tracks, linking Sacsamarca with Colcabamba and Asca-Pallca. The CVR comprises 35 mmbers, with a good
representation of women. The tasks performed by OTAR to assist the cmmunity in designing the works and establish
the CVR included: (i) introducing the project objectives and team to local and provincia authorities, through a
coordination meeting; (ii) ispecting the tracks pre-selectd by the conmmunity for improvement based on local
priorities; (iii) inviting the whole community for the organization of the CVR, through written comunnications and
direct invitation; (iv) selectng the members of the CVR taking into account the number of workers needed for the job
(technical aspect), the number of communes that are served by the track, and the number of workers in each comune.
The selection process assigns quotas by commune to ensure adequate representation; (v) organizing the CVIL Villagers
democratically appoint members to the CVR, elect its authorities, and pick a name (an important aspect), and approve
its charter and operation procedures. Usually, elected authorities invoke God's guidance in discharging their
responsibilities and assume a strong commitment in front of the community; and (vi) training the CVR in organizing
and delivering the works. All the above tasks were performed in Qechua.
Measuring Impacts to Better Understand Poverty
As part of a series of evaluation studies, PCR hired Cuanto -a think-tank NGO well-known in Peru for its
extensive experience in LSMS studies-to perfonn a comprehensive assessment of the outcomes of the
project. The evaluation of the impacts of the project was undertaken through a series of interviews and
surveys carried out during the month of March 2000 over a representative sample of roads and tracks
improved by the project and of similar others without interventions from the project (control areas)   The
study included about two thousand families located in the twelve departments where the project was
implemented. The evaluation measured the possible changes in the values of a variety of socio-economic
and transport-related variables about two years after the completion of the rehabilitation projects and
compared the changes in those conditions between the rehabilitated projects and other similar rural roads
(the control sample) that have not received interventions from the project but that may or may not have had
interventions from the govenmnent. For the control sample, it was assumed that quantitative conditions
(e.g., production variables) were similar to those in the areas in the project.!' More details on the sampling
guidelines are given in Box 4. The impact indicators analyzed, and the population's perception as to the
extent or magnitude of the project distinct impact items, generally coincide. Table 46 summarizes the
indicators analyzed with the initial hypothesis to be tested and the trends and size of the impacts measured
through the survey.
-45-



Boz 4: An Economic, Social, En'iroumental and Institutional ZvaluMio. of the Project
The Sh*dy Sample in a Snapshot. The technical guidelines used to compose the sample are summanzed
below:
- 1oad Universe          319 roads for wheeled vehicles
261 non-motorized transport tradlcs/paths
Random sampling for rehabilitated roads for wheeled vehicles and improved bridle paths.
- Scope of the study      Twelve departments distributed in four regions.
Northern Highland = Cajamarca
Central Highland                Ancash, Huancavelica, Hunuco,
Junin y Pasco
Southern Highland        Apurimac, Ayacucho, Cusco, Puno
Selva                           Mad edeDios,$anMrt1n
- Non random sampling for control roads and tracks, sample selected based on "coxuparebility" with sample
roads.
Number of sample roads:            74 roads for wheeled vchivles and 16 bridle paths
- Numbor of control roads:          74 roads for wheeled vehicles and 16 bridle paths
- Number of communities surveyed:   381 (at the beginning and at the end of both sample and
control roads)
Number of focus groups performed   381 (one in each locality)
- Avprag focus group participants:  5 people (including authorities, local leaders, and
representative citizens).
Number of households surveyed:     2,038
- Level of confidence of estimates:  92,5%
- Maximum error allowed:            No more than 10%
- l'ield srvey compl*ed in:      March 2000
- 46 -



Table 4: Project Impact Summary
Sector                Indicator            Type        Term        Hypothesis    Impact at
End Phase I
Transportation     Travel time                 Direct    Short         Decrease       High
Traffic rate               Direct    Short          Increase      High
Fare prices                Indirect  Short-Medium   Decrease      Moderate-High
Freight prices             Indirect  Short-Medium   Decrease       High
Road closure               Direct   Short           Decrease       Moderate
Reliability of public Transpoit Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase  Moderate-High
Access To Public    N0 School Registered Children Indirect  Medium-Long  Increase     Low
Services           N0 of Consultations         Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase      Moderate
N0 of Judicial Causes      Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase       Null
Productive         Farmed Land Area            Indirect  Medium         Increase      Low
Activities         Land value                  Indirect  Medium         Increase      Null
Productivity               Indirect  Medium         Increase       Null
Livestock ownership        Indirect  Medium         Increase       Moderate
Farm prices                Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase       High
Crop allocation            Indirect  Medium-Long   Variation       Null
Market-oriented produce    Indirect  Medium         Increase       Null
Access to the marketplace  Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase       Moderate
Access to credit           Indirect  Medium-Long  Increase         Low
N and income of com. Estab.  Indirect  Medium      Increase       Low
Income structure           Indirect  Medium-Long   Diversification Low
Employment         Type of occupation          Indirect  Medium-Long   Variation      Low
Occupation category        Indirect  Medium-Long   Variation       Null
Productive activity        Indirect  Medium-Long   Variation       Null
Agricultural Day's Wage    Indirect  Medium         Increase       Moderate
Labor Force structure      Indirect  Medium-Long   Variation       Low
Migration          N of migrants              Indirect  Medium-Long   Decrease       Null
N of returning migrants   Indirect  Medium-Long  Increase         Low
Poverty            Poverty Levels              Indirect  Long           Decrease      Null
Institutionality   N of new institutions      Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase      Moderate
Negative Impact
Transportation      N of traffic accidents   Indirect  Short          Increase       Low
Environment         Use of land                Indirect  Medium         Increase      Null
Use of chemicals          Indirect  Medium         Increase       Null
Deforestation             Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase       Low
Impact on Transport-Related Parameters. The survey shows substantial reduction in travel times (up to
half) brought about by the rehabilitation works on both rural roads and NMT paths. This reduction tends
to be higher the worse the initial condition of the infrastructure is. Also, travel time reductions on project
rehabilitated roads compare favorably with the reductions achieved on "control" roads rehabilitated by
other programs. These reductions had a threshold effect as their magnitude jump-started new transport
services and significantly increased traffic volumes along the roads rehabilitated.
Travel Tsime Reduction    All         All    Rehabilitated  Matching       Non-       Matching
Project    Control     Control      Project   rehabilitated    Project
_____________________    Roads         Roads       Roads        Roads    Control Roads   Roads
Travel Time - March 2000        81.4        59.3         60.9        71.8          53.8        79.6
TravelTime-BeforeProject       155.4        79.9         91.6       145.6          59.8       140.8
Percent variation               -47.6      -25.81       -33.5       -50.7         -10.1       -43.4
-47 -



Another variable that shows positive changes on an unambiguous manner is the reduction in transport
tariffs for both passengers and freight, the more so if one takes into consideration the sizeable increase in
the cost of vehicle fuel as a consequence of the increase in gasoline and diesel prices since the beginning of
the project. This effect is more clear when comparing the roads surveyed with those of the control sample.
In the latter, transport prices changed on a percentage more than double that for the rehabilitation roads
under the project in nominal terms. The effect on transport prices was larger (i.e., larger decrease) for
freight tariffs. In all, decreasing transport prices appear to reflect both lower vehicle operating costs and
increased competition from an increasing number of providers. In the case of freight, it appears that the
supply of trucks sometimes exceeds the demand and has forced prices to decrease at comparatively higher
rate that that for other types of transport services.
PassgrFares             A4l           All    Rabiitated    WMA            Nn.       Mahing
By transport means    Ptrject        Control     Control     Project   rehabiftated    Prjet
(A40t fre in sJ          Ro   R                     oa0d      0oad    Ctro s   ROd
Car fare - March 2000              5.1         4.7          4.5        4.9           7.7        4.7
Car fare before Project            4.5         3.5          3.5        4.4           4.3        3.3
Percent Variation                 13.9        33.5         28.2        11.6         76.9        40.0
Minibus fare - March 2000          3.8         2.6          2.6        3.4           2.3        3.1
Minibus fare before Project        3.4         2.0          2.0        2.9           1.5        2.9
Percent Variation                 12.8        33.6         29.4       18.8          49.5         8.4
Bus fare - March 2000              4.6         3.8          4.2        3.5           3.5         4.9
Bus fare before Project            4.1         3.1          3.2        3.3           3.0        4.8
Percent Variatn                   12.9        19.5         29.0        6.5          16.8         1.0
Truck fare - March 2000            3.7         2.8          3.2        3.1           2.6         5.1
Truck fare before Project          3.4         2.2          2.5        2.9           2.3         5.2
Percent Variation                  9.0        23.0         26.5         4.9         12.8        -1.5
Fregt Rates             All         Al      Reabilated  MA4tchnt         Non-      M0atch
By transport means      Projct       Control      Control     Protect   rehabilitated   Project
(;v:@tt;ff  Soe **er kg)  Roads    Roa: s      RoadsL      Roads: Cotro Roads  Read XsS:XL
Bus Freight - March 2000         0.052       0.043        0.049      0.034         0.054      0.029
Bus Freight before Project       0.061       0.044        0.049      0.034         0.079      0.030
Percent Variation              -14.815      -1.205        0.000      0.000       -31.746      -4.167
Truck Freight - March 2000       0.032       0.035        0.032      0.038         0.026      0.032
Truck Freight before Project     0.035       0.035        0.037      0.038         0.030      0.033
Percent Variation               -8.657       -0.754     -12.121      0.549       -13.253     -3.261
The reliability of transport services was seen as markedly improved in the project roads, with 68 percent
reporting good or high reliability, while only 28 percent expressed the same opinion for transport services
on the control-sample roads.
-48 -



Users' Oin on Reliabilityof Pulic Transport Servces alon rehabilitated roadskv   f/o)
Level of          Sample  Control Northern Sierra   Central Sierra   Southern Sierra   Selva
Reliability       Roads   Roads Sample Control Sample Control Sample Control Sample Control
Very Reliable       5.50    0.70    3.60             2.40           11.50    1.90
Reliable           62.30   27.70   67.90  :20.70   50.00   20.90   61.50   32.70   79.20   37.50
Little Reliable    26.70   52.70   25.00  659.00   38.10   44.20   21.20   50.00   20.80   54.20
Not Reliable        5.50    18.90    3.60   10.30    9.50   34.90    5.80   15.40             8.30
On a related matter that directly impinges in the quality and price of transport services, the surveys shows
that the rehabilitation program has brought about a substantial decrease in the percentage of time the roads
are not in passable condition. For the sample of roads under the project, the percentage of roads that are
open to traffic every month of the year increase from 16 percent to 45 percent, and the percentage of the
sampled roads that were occasionally impassable (e.g., during or immediately after a rain) for three o more
months decrease from 62 percent to 31 percent. For the control sample, the changes were not noticeable,
with only 20 percent of the roads with zero months of blocked conditions and above 58 percent with three
or more months with the road closed (compared to 18 percent and 63 percent, before the beginning of the
project). In this aspect, the activities of the maintenance micro-enterprises were instrumental in keeping the
improved roads in the enhanced passable condition.
The survey shows the overall travel pattems of the population in the sample projects. Trip purpose was
divided among work and non-work related activities (such as school and health-related trips, social visits,
processing of administrative papers, buying and selling). The survey reports that about 30 percent of the
trips are related to labor activities, and they are taking for a distance of about 10 km. Those for buying and
selling agricultural products are next with about 24 percent of the trips and an average distance of between
20 and 33 km. Next come trips for education and health purposes with up to 20 percent of the trips. Trips
for the purpose of visiting relatives and friends or attending social and communal activities represent
another important part of the travel of the surveyed population (19 percent) with an average distance of 43
km, the largest among the several trip purposes (and about similar to the one for the processing of
administrative papers, that represent about 4 percent of the trips). No changes to this split of trip purposes
are reported in the impact survey after the completion of the project.
Most trips are undertaken by foot, with a decrease from about 52 percent to 46 percent after the
implementation of the project in the sampled projects. Trips for work-related purposes are the ones with
the largest percentage of walking mode and a less substantial decrease after the implementation of the
project (from 78 percent to 76 percent), due mainly to the fact that are the ones with the shortest average
distance. On the contrary, trip for social-oriented purposes of to process administrative papers show the
smallest percentage of walking mode and decreases from 29 to 24 percent for the former and from 21 to 14
percent for the latter. Motorized forms of transport (motorcycles, automobiles, buses of various forms, and
trucks) increased from 41 percent before the project to 48 percent after the project. NMT and others (e.g.,
boats) take the rest of the trips (about 6 and 7 percent after and before the project, respectively).
-49 -



The change in modal split directly
Trip distribution by purpose and means of        affects the reduction in travel times, with
transport                       Transport Means  an average decrease of 20 percent. In
WatK - NMT Ve- h. h  general, the largest decrease takes place
100           Vist rties (137%) 428km             in those types of trips when there is a
'5             Vmt eade .6%; 42.7 km 14% -2% - 83% - 1%  higher participation of motorized
.    0 0  t00 t  haPihMprodUjts 18.5%; 33.3 km 24% -2% - 71% - 3%  transport while the smallest increase
E
8    .A ctiv. 3.7%;24.7 km 24% -2% -71% -3%  (about 15 percent) correspond to work-
_ Sell producs 11%, 20.2 km 37% - 8% - 53% - 2%  related trips, which are the ones with the
highest percentage of users travelling on
Work 34.6%; 9.7 km 76% - 6% -16% - 2%  foot. The improved roads also bring
0L
jE     -     Education & Health 9.5%; 2,1 km      with them the possibility of increasing
Waor.firewood 13%) -1 7 km.        driving speeds and with this an increased
0    10 km  25 km        50 km   Distance     number of accidents. The survey
confirmed this hypothesis, though when
the increase in the amount of traffic is factored in the increase in the accident rate is not
noticeable.
Impact on access to basic services. he survey does not show a significant impact on access to education,
in terms of greater attendance, smaller drop-out rates, or higher enrollment of teachers. Interviews,
however, do show an appreciable perception in the improvement of the quality of education through
increased security in the movements of pupils and teachers, better punctuality of both of them, and an
increase in extracurricular activities. A slight impact occurs on teacher recruiting, which is directly related
to quality in education. Impact is different for different types of access. The number of teachers from
schools located near roads for motorized transport increased by 8,6% (most of them are temporarily hired
teachers and the remaining are stable teachers). The number of teachers in schools located in control road
areas grew by 4,9%. On its turn, the number of educational personnel in areas related to improved NMT
tracks remained unchanged, while personnel in areas related to control road areas increased by 30%. Road
improvement impact on the construction of new schools has also been slight. After road improvement, the
number of schools increased by 5,4%; in control road areas, this growth reached 7,7%. There were no new
schools in sample NMT areas; while in their control counterparts the number of schools increased by 2,6%.
Apparently, RRP do not have much influence on the construction of new schools.
The impacts are however noticeably positive in the case of access to health services. Travel times to/from
health specialists (doctors, nurses, midwives, or pharmacies) show a substantial decrease in the project
areas compared to the control areas, and for both rural roads and NMT tracks. Professional personnel at
health centers increased by 3,89% in areas related to sample wheeled-vehicle roads, whereas the increase
was 1,75% at their control counterparts. Personnel at health centers belonging to bridle path areas
increased by 2,15% at sample units and decreased by 4,86% at control units. New health centers increased
by 7% after road rehabilitation of wheeled-vehicle roads, whereas in areas related to control roads, it
increased by only 2%. Two new health centers were built at sample bridle path areas and none at control
units. Regarding the number of people that tum to health centers for consultations on illnesses or to have
injures healed, the impact is different on each type of access. As for areas with road access, the number of
consultations in areas benefited by the project increased more than in those related to control roads. At
health centers associated to areas with NMT access, the number of consultations was low in both sample
and control areas, but it decreases faster at sample areas. The reason could be that, as a result of road
rehabilitation, people have now easier access to better health centers that are out of the communities in
areas related to NMT paths.
- 50 -



Access to Education   Rural Road Access      VMTAccess
(average per educ.center)  Sample   Control   Sample   Control
Students Registered
In 1999                    204.5      194.4    158.1      141.2
Before Project              195.7     186.4     151.4     144.8
Percent Variation             4.5       4.3       4.4      -2.5
Dropouts
In 1999                      17.6      18.5      15.2      11.4
Before Project               17.7      17.1      14.7      14.6
Percent Variation            -0.5       8.5       3.0     -21.7
Access to Health    Rural Road Access      NMTAccess
(average per health post)  Sample   Control   Sample   Control
Number of Visits
In 1999                   1,801.4   1,468.5   2,535.9   1,523.1
Before Project            1,504.5   1,270.3   2,370.9   1,386.3
Percent Variation       _  19.74      15.60      6.96      9.87
Poputation's perception of the influence of Project on  Road Access             NTAccess
Educational Issues (%)            Posttive Negzative  None   Positive Negative  Now
On school infrastructure                          55       5       40       31                69
On reduction of student absenteeism               59       3        38      45                55
On teachers' willingness/rapport (appearance/mood)  69     3       28       45                55
On students' performance (mood/concentration)     53       3        44      31       7        62
On teacher recruiting                             63       3       34       48       3        49
On the execution of extra-curricular activities   71       3       26       38       7        55
On female teachers'safety when traveling          79       1        20      62       3        35
Population's perception of the influence ofProject on  Road Access              NMT Acc
Health Issues (e'j)             Positive I Negative | None   Posittive Negaive  None
On infrastructure and equipment                      70       31       27      40j               60
On number of attendances                             90       1        9      50       201      30
On health personnel's willingness (appearance, mood)  76      4        20      601      1 0      30
On Timely Attendance (Emergencies)                   91       21        7      701      10       20
On Increased Access To Medicines                     77       22       21      50,               50
On Greater Specialization                            82        1       17      501               50
In terms of changes in the access to justice, the impacts have a mixed picture and one that is hard to
evaluate. The number of cases reported to the police showed a substantial increase in the surveyed areas
along the rehabilitated. These statistics seem to show that increased access also brings increased reporting
of grievances but also, possibly, an increased in grievances that can occur with greater frequency by
improved mobility of population (such as assaults and property damages).
Aside from education, health and other public services, the survey reports that those areas served by the
project enjoy an increased number of government-sponsored programs than those in the control samnple.
This may corroborate the hypothesis that improved access facilitates the delivery of other programs, and in
the long term could also facilitate the coordination and implementation of a comprehensive package of
investment programs, maximizing the combined impact in a particular rural area.
- 51 -



Impact on economic activities. The survey does not show noticeable changes to economic production
activities. Given that projects where completed less than two years before the survey was taken, it mnight be
the case that the possible impact of the rehabilitated roads on economic activities has not materialized yet.
Variables such as value of the land, productivity, number of heads of livestock, prices of agricultural
products, do not show a significant positive trend that can be assigned to the advantages of better access.
There appears to be a tendency to shift crops to the production of more profitable ones and away from
more traditional crops such as potatoes, but the figures are not conclusive. In terms of the
commercialization of pToducts and in the possibility of moving from production for subsistence to
production for export (outside the area of production), the survey shows a mixed picture as for some
products (wheat or com) there appears to be a less than significant proportion of production
commercialized outside the local area, while for others the difference appears to be either not noticeable or
with an increased proportion of the production exported outside the area.
In terms of the marketing techniques, it appears that the rural producers in the areas where the project was
implemented had a better edge in holding their products in anticipation of higher prices, but the difference
(31 vs. 27 percent) appears not to be statistically significant. Other aspects, such as when the price is
determined, how often they change their intermediaries, or how they pay (credit or cash), both the project
and control samples report almost exactly the same answers. The number of rural producers in local fairs
however increased (by 13 percent) in the sample of the project roads while it decreased (by 5 percent) in the
sample of control roads.
The surveys shows that the rehabilitated roads helped diversify productive activities and move away from
the traditional sectors and into other more income-rewarding activities with higher value added, helping
also spread risks across them. A discernible positive difference is shown in the perception of the
population in the project areas compared to the control areas that income is now more stable (from either
agricultural or other economic activities) and higher. However, the analysis of the structure of employment
does not show a significant difference between the project rehabilitated roads and the control roads.
Interestingly, focus groups composed by project beneficiaries were much more positive, compare to control
groups, about the increased stability of their income after the roads were rehabilitated.
Ru  Family Income Structure As   Rural Road Access      NMT7Access
Me     d by 0 Sryey C- mle    Control  Sample    Control
Total Income                          100        100     100         100
Agricultural income                  47.2       50.9      40         46.5
Sub-agricultural income               1.5        1.4      1.8         0.9
Livestock income                     29.2       30.1    41.7         36.1
Livestock sub-product income          8.1          4      5.7         1.9
Timber/forestry income                0.6        1.4     0.2          0.4
Income from other activities          5.1        3.7      3.3         4.3
Income from equipment renting         0.3          1      1.8           l
Income from land renting              0.6        0.6      1.2           0
Income from money transfers           6.4        5.8      4.2         7.8
Other income                            1          1      1.2         1.1
- 52 -



Focus groups opinion on current Income    Road Access    NMT A ccess
compared to pre-rehabilitation period (%)  Project  Control   Project
Agricultural income is now more stable/reliable  100.0    100.0    100.0
Yes                  36.4     32.1        26.6
No                  29.2      24.7        44.8
Same                26.8      38.3        23.1
Don't Know.           7.6      4.9         5.6
Incomefrom other activities is now more stable  100.0    100.0     100.0
Yes                 32.0      22.2        19.3
No                  29.8      24.7        40.7
Same                28.7      44.4        26.4
Don't Know.           9.5      8.6        13.6
Total income is now more stable (reliable)  100.0    100.0       100.0
Yes                 28.6      21.0        16.7
No                   28.0     25.9        33.3
Same                32.2      42.0        28.3
Don't Know.          11.2     11.1        21.7
Total income is now higher           100.0    100.0       100.0
Yes                  26.5     16.3        13.8
No                   29.6     28.8        35.5
Same                33.5      43.8        28.3
Don't Know.          10.4     11.3        22.5
On another account, the survey reports that the maintenance micro-enterprises facilitated the creation of
new employment and had a incipient multiplying effect in the generation of non-farm employment, with a
significant effect in spurring the local economy.
Regarding access to credit, after road rehabilitation, about 7 percent of farmers along project roads and
about I 1 percent of farmers along control roads requested credit. In both cases, about 90 percent of all
these requests received credit. With respect to project roads, about 12 percent received credit from a
private bank, about 6 percent from a NGO, aboult 6 percent from FONCODES, and about 66 percent from
informal sources (relatives, etc.). As for farmers served by control roads, about 4 percent received credit
from a private bank and about 2 percent from a rural bank, about 13 percent from NGOs, about 7 percent
from FONCODES, and about 65 percent from informal sources. These figures suggest that farmers along
project roads had more access, albeit incipient, to formal financial institutions such as private banks and
rural banks, and reaffirm the potential not yet fully exploited under the project of networking with NGOs to
enhance communities' access to financing.
Regarding migration, the survey shows that in percentage terms the number of people who migrated after
the roads were rehabilitated was similar (somewhat slightly higher) between the project roads and those of
the control sample. However, in the case of the former, employment factors had a much greater weight in
the decision to migrate, and they did it less to Lima than in the control sample, reflecting perhaps the better
opportunities opened by the improved road to work in the proximity of the original living area (and of
coming back with more easiness). The number of people returning to the area is also slightly higher for
project roads.
These findings reinforce the notion of migration as an element of Andean livelihood strategy, critical to the
viability of rural peoples' livelihoods, rather than an indicator of non-viability, as often interpreted. It is
generally a merely survival strategy, although in some cases migration may become part of an
accumulation strategy. Where agricultural intensification has been limited and other rural employment
absent, the principal livelihood adaptation has been temporary or permanent migration and the Andes is full
- 53 -



of projects that have attempted and failed to stop this out-migration. However, if migration to urban areas
offers the potential for welfare gains (rural populations continue to have lower levels of income and they
lack access to basic services), new forms of urban poverty have emerged since the urban poor may be more
vulnerable to economic instability due to their lack of assets: unlike the rural poor they have no access
subsistence production during periods of unemployment. The survey findings suggest that migrants from
the rural Sierra have not broken their connection with the communities of origin and that remittances, either
in cash or kind, work both ways --to and from the rural households, as part of a strategy for families and
kin networks to build a sustaining livelihood and cope with harsh economic conditions.
RemEitances in last 12 months l,y  All    Northern    Central   Southern     Selva
Po     level and Region (S!    Regions    Sierra     Sierra     Sierra
To Rural Household
Total                               388.6      342.9      558.6      249.3      617.2
Extreme Poor                        292.6      163.5      409.9      321.8      367.2
Non-extreme Poor                    372.8      249.1      537.5      181.5      809.5
Non-Poor                            493.6      763.5      641.5      230.3      475.1
From Rural Household
Total                               279.4      370.0      289.1      146.9      597.3
Extreme Poor                        105.5       17.4      264.5       57.2       91.7
Non-extreme Poor                    140.4      158.6      128.1       56.8      374.C
Non-Poor                            429.7      809.8      357.1      231.4      922.9
Making a livelihood with less than $1 a day. Table 5 shows average household expenditure levels per
day, grouped by type of access and region for households in the project area belonging to the sample of
project beneficiaries or composing the control sample. Poor or non poor, household expenditures in the
project area are very low. The quality of access and the proximity to markets matters. For households
located in villages with NMT access only, household expenditures are on average between 76 and 97
percent of those in villages that benefit from road access. Similarly, household expenditure are slightly
higher for those living closer to the beginning of the road (as opposed to those living towards the end).
- 54 -



Table 5: Average Household Expenditure per Day by Region and Type of Access
TYPE OF ACCESS       TOTAL           Project Beneficiaries              Control Sample
Household Poverty Level  Project     All      Road       Road        All       Road      Road
Geographic Domain      Area       Benef-    Begin.     End       Control    Begin,      end
TOTAL                         5.4        5.5        5.7       5.3        5.4        5.7       5.1
Total                         2.5        2.5        2.5       2.5        2.5        2.5       2.5
Extreme Poor                  4.5        4.5        4.5       4.5        4.5        4.6       4.4
Poor                          8.9        9.2        9.3       9.2         8.6       8.6       8.5
RURAL ROADS
Total                         5.5        5.7        5.9       5.5        5.4        5.7       5.2
Extreme Poor                  2.5        2.5        2.5       2.5        2.5        2.5       2.5
Poor                          4.5        4.6        4.6       4.5        4.6        4.7       4.4
Non-Poor                      9.1        9.5        9.5       9.6         8.6       8.6       8.6
Northern Highlands            6.0        6.4'       6.6       6.2        5.7        6.2       5.1
Extreme Poor                  2.7        2.6        2.5       2.6        2.8        3.1       2.6
Poor                          4.6        4.6        4.6       4.6        4.7        4.6       4.8
Non-Poor                     10.7       11.5       11.2      11.7        9.4        9.3       9.4
Central Highlands             5.5        5.7        5.9       5.5        5.5        5.4       5.6
Extreme Poor                  2.5        2.4        2.4       2.5        2.5        2.3       2.8
Poor                          4.3        4.4        4.6       4.1        4.4        4.7       4.0
Non-Poor                      8.8        9.2        8.6      10.0         8.4       7.9       8.9
Southern Highlands            4.8        5.0        5.2       4.7         4.8       4.9       4.7
Extreme Poor                  2.4        2.4        2.4       2.4        2.3        2.4       2.2
Poor                          4.1        4.1        3.8       4.3         4.2       4.2       4.2
Non-Poor                      8.2        8.7        9.4       7.9         7.9       7.9       8.0
"Selva"                       6.3        6.4       6.4        6.4        6.3        7.2       5.4
Extreme Poor                  2.9        2.8        3.1       2.6        3.0        3.2       2.9
Poor                          5.3        5.5        5.5       5.4         5.1       5.4       4.9
Non-Poor                      9.8        9.9        9.8       9.9         9.8      10.7        8.3
NON-MOTORIZED TRACKS
Total                         5.0        4.7        5.0       4.3         5.3       5.7       4.9
Extreme Poor                  2.5        2.4        2.7       2.2        2.6        2.5       2.6
Poor                          4.3        4.3        4.1       4.5        4.2        4.4       4.1
Non-Poor                      7.9        7.2        8.1       6.3         8.4       8.6        8.2
Northern Highlands            6.1        6.0        6.2       5.9         6.2       6.1       6.2
Extreme Poor                  3.0        3.1        3.2       2.8        2.9        2.9       2.9
Poor                          4.9        4.6        3.0       5.2         5.1       4.6       5.6
Non-Poor                      8.5        8.8        8.3      10.6         8.2       8.5        7.6
Central Highlands             5.7        5.4        5.8       4.9         6.1       66        5.6
Extreme Poor                  2.8        2.8        3.2       2.4         2.7       2.5       2.8
Poor                          4.5        4.5        4.3       4.7         4.6       4.9       4.1
Non-Poor                      8.6        7.6        8.5       6.7         9.5      10.2        8.7
Southern Highlands            2.7        2.4        2.5       2.2        2.9        3.0       2.8
Extreme Poor                  2.1        2.0        2.1       1.8        2.3        2.4       2.3
Poor                          3.0        3.2        3.9       2.6         2.9       2.3       3.3
Non-Poor                      3.8        3.1        3.4       3.0         4.3       4.3       4.5
Source: Instituto CuAnto. Encuesta Socioecon6mica de Hogares, 2000.
- 55 -



The chart shows the average composition of household expenditures (for all households in the survey).
Meeting food needs takes on average about 57 percent of the total household expenditure. This percentage
is higher the poorer the household and the quality of access (e.g., about 68 percent in the case of extreme
poor households located in villages with NMT tracks). Non-poor households spend much more, in both
absolute and relative terms, on health/medicines and transportation than poor or extreme poor households
do. The differences are significant; for example, expenditure incurred in health may on average represent
about 3 percent for extreme poor households to about 9 percent for non poor households living, in both
cases, in rural villages with road access. The trend is similar for expenditure in transportation (see chart).
The latter finding suggests that as more income becomes available, households would allocate a greater
proportion of their income to transportation and communication, to get better retuins on their assets and/or
meet perceived needs that had been suppressed for the lack of income opportunity.
Household Consumption by Item (0oi
E~qae kan Trauct(0/.
63                                     7 8
5 
4
18%                                 57%    3
6%   Food 
o3Clothing & Footwear
* Housing & Fuel
[]Health & Medicines           R0dAos                    NMTAo
oT ransportation & Commun.
O Education & Amusement
D Other Goods & Services              O ExtPoo   O xr l     INcInRxr
M Transfers - Remittances
Understanding Poverty Links: Household Assets and Livelihood Strategies. The dispersion of
spending or income, as well as the probabilities of individuals and families of being poor or non-poor,
depend on their stock of assets and its return or market price. Using data from the impact evaluation study,
Table 6 attempts to portray a profile of the rural households in the project area, showing for the three
poverty categories of households -extreme poor, poor, and non-poor (according to poverty line criteria)-,
their average endowment of public and private assets. What are the main determinants of poverty? The
data stresses the significant variation in education attaimnents and their strong correlation with poverty
levels, in spite of the fact that these attainments are still very low for all categories. Another important
finding is that traditional agricultural assets can not explain the differences in poverty levels. On the
contrary, the differences become more significant when capital and financial assets such as the
accumulation of productive and durable goods, the value of transport equipment and access to credit, are
considered.
- 56 -



Table 6: Households' Endowment of Public and Private Assets by Poverty Level
Household Poverty Level
Livelihood Assets by Category:                     Ext Poor  Poor   Non Poor
Human Capital:Family Size (No.)                         6         5        4
Education of Household Head (years)      2.9      4.4       6.2
Education of rest of household (years)   3.2      4.3       5.4
Natural Capital: Livestock owned                      25.9     21.4      29.7
Land per HH (median) (Ha)                1.0      1.5       1.6
Value per Ha (median) (S/.)            4,200    2,500    2,500
Value of farm plot (rnedian) (S/.)     4,200    3,750    4,000
Physical Capital:Has Water in dwellirng (%)             70        70       80
Has Electricity (%)                      40        50       60
Has Sanitation (%)                       10        10       20
Value of durable gocods (SI.)           213       453      836
Value of productivegoods (S/.)          165       156      391
Value of transport equipment (S/.)      340       586    1,263
Social Capital:Migration experiences per HH (No.)     0.3      0.4       0.5
Financial CapitalAccess to credit                         0       10        10
The analysis can also be centered on the distribution of assets rather than the poverty category of the
respective households, clustering the households in the survey according to their endowment of assets. The
data from the survey suggests three possible groups with statistically different endowments --with Group 1
having the lowest endowment and Group 3 the largest. The most significant assets for this classification -
those that show statistically significant differences-- are as follows:
Most significant assets for grouping households (areas benefited by PCR I)
Type of access:  Motorized Roads         Non-motorized Tracks
Type of Asset                Groupi' Group 2 Group 3 Group I Group 2 Group 3
Education of HH Head (years)   Medium   Low    High    Low        -       -
Education of rest of HH (years)  -      -      High    Low    High  Medium
Livestock owned                 -       -        -    Medium   Low    High
Value of farm plot (S/.)        -      High      -       -        -     High
Has Water in dwelling (%)     Low       -        -       -      High      -
Has Electricity (%/0)         Low   Medium   High    Low        High  Medium
Has Drainage (%)                -       -      High      -      High      -
Value of durable goods (SI.)    -       -      High      -      High      -
Value of productive goods (S/.)  -     Low       -       -        -     High
Value transport equipment (S/.)  -      -      High    Low
Communal Activities (%)         -       -      High      -        -     High
Access to credit (%)         Mediurn  Low    High        -        -     High
Table 7-A shows the asset distribution for the three groups established within the sample of households
benefited by the project. A similar table can be composed for the three groups established within the
sample of households belonging to the control sample (Table 7-B not shown). The data shows that the
incidence of poverty declines as the endowment of assets increases, which is quite obvious. More striking
is the finding that even within the group with the largest stock of assets poverty is still widespread. This
makes important to look in more detail at the varying types of livelihood strategy that are emerging in the
Andes, in order to understand the types of resource access, capability enhancement and political economic
factors upon which they have been based, and the conditions under which they may become more
sustainable and more poverty alleviating (the two are not necessarily the same). The data reinforces the
notion that the ways in which people compose rural livelihoods in the Andes are multiple and increasingly
they have a very significant non-agrarian component. These assets are not simply resources that people use
- 57 -



in building livelihoods. The environment that an income earning strategy helps build (or destroy) and the
social networks it helps create (or weaken), in turn affects any subsequent income earning activity. The
different capitals are thus not only inputs to livelihoods and development strategies -they are also outputs.
Their changing composition must be considered not only in sustainability terms but also in poverty terms.
Table 7-A: Household Groups by Their Endowment of Assets - Project Beneficiaries
Tye of0 accss:    MoAtorizwdRoadas      Mon-motorized Tck
TVpe o0fi fit:               Gr:- oup) Grv. 2 Grou 3 Grop          2 Group 3
Human Capital:Family Size (No)                 5.00    5.02    5.01     5.04    5.12    4.64
Education of HH Head (years)     3.22    2.48    9.77    2.32    5.06    3.27
Education of rest of HH (years)  2.76    2.60    8.62    2.32    5.93    3.75
Natural Capital:Livestock owned               25.13   21.95   37.68   25.24   13.10   82.63
LandperHH (median) (Ha)           1.8      1.1     1.5     1.1      1.0     1.5
Value per Ha (median) (S/.)     1,800   3,333   3,871   4,333   2,500   3,060
Value of farm plot (median) (S/.)   3,240   3,667   5,806   4,767   2,500   4,590
Physical CapitalHas Water in dwelling (%)         3      100      95      34      98       36
Has Electricity (%)                20      34      84        3      92       5
Has Drainage (%)                    4       5      40        0      26       0
Value of durable goods (Sl.)      274     257   1,143      138     734      165
Value of productive goods (S/.)   254      88     387       33      35     148
Valuetransportequipment(S/.)      511     412   1,512      452   1,447   1,002
Social Capital: HHs. Receiving remittances (%)  24      21       16      30      4.0      18
Social programs accessed (No.)    4.0     4.7      3.8     4.0      3.8     2.8
HHs access 3+ programs (%)         69      74      63       65      62      50
Communal Activities (%/6)           3       3       7        0       0      41
Social Activities (%)               9       7      10       10       0       5
'inancial CapitalAccess to credit (%)              6       3      12       4        2       9
1o.of househods W in** gro                       265     441     293       79      50      22
oo.r houseolds in grot;p (                      74.7    73.5    44.4    74.7    56A)    50,0
xtveme orhoseodsdinffX500000t_ t0_ 0000 0S003t7.tt0 4000008L3.0403 17.4   48.1    1.     31.8
Impact on Vulnerable Groups: Women. Furthering the analysis started with an exploratory study in
three locations, a module was included under the Impact Survey Study to explore gender differences.
Although rather simple in its breadth, this module gave a dimension of the differences in gender perceptions
and impacts. The survey shows that improving accessibility under the project had a significant impact on
women (in relation of that of men) with regard to access to health care services, and positive but lower
impacts with regards to access to education and women's share of the labor force.
- 58 -



Access to health care services by gender in areas with roads rehabilitated under the Project
(average per health center)
Number Registered                            Number Registered
Men 1999                            968.29   women 1999                         603.3
Men before Project                  819.96   women before Project               461.3
Percent Variation                     18.09   Percent Variation                   30.8
Number of Dropouts                           Number of Dropouts
Men 1999                               9.68   women 1999                         7.88
Men before Project                    10.17   women before Project               7.46
Percent Variation                     -4.90   Percent Variation                   5.72
Access to education by gender in areas with roads rehabilitated under the Project
(average per school)
Number Registered                            Number Registered
Men 1999                             110.57   Women 1999                        93.83
Men before Project                   106.77   Women before Project               88.79
Percent Variation                      3.56   Percent Variation                   5.67
Number of Dropouts                           Number of Dropouts
Men 1999                               9.68   Women 1999                         7.88
Men before Project                    10.17   Women before Project               7.46
Percent Variation                     -4.90   Percent Variation                   5.72
Beyond these measurements, most women reported benefits from the project: of all women living in areas
benefited by the project surveyed during the field work, 70 percent reported that the project brought
improvements to their lifestyles (interestingly, oult of those who reported not having benefited from the
project, roughly half said their situation remained the same, as before road rehabilitation, about a quarter
stated they did not use the rehabilitated roads and 7 percent declared they do not leave their homestead).
Among the main aspects women think they have benefited from the project, they report better access to
health care services, which supports the figures above, increased trade (sales of local products, livestock
and purchases from other areas) and more opportunities to visit acquaintances and socialize due to
increased mobility and safety when traveling. When asked women value the most the fact that the project
has enabled them to travel to farther places; in second place, the possibility to travel more frequently, and
in third place to do it more safely.
Aspects in which women got better off
Percent distribution of responses    Ye!s         No       Don 't Know
Housework                               50.1         46.5          3.4
Improved health care service            69.5         27.9         2.6
Increased attendance to school          61.5         35.1          3.4
Productive tasks in their land plots    43.3         50.6          6.0
Trading                                 65.2         31.2          3.6
Social visits                           62.7         33.7         3.6
Admninistrative proceedings             57.4         37.5         5.1
Undertake new activities                48.6         45.5          5.9
- 59 -



Activities the Project enabled Women to do
Percent distbution ofresponses      Yes          No       Don't Know
Travel to farther places               77.3          22           0.7
Travel more frequently                 70.3          29           0.7
Travel safely                          66.8         31.6          1.6
Travel with greater security           53.6         42.2         4.2
Access additional income               42.9         53.2          3.9
Access new tools and houseware         38.8         55.2          6.0
Access temporary jobs                  40.5         53.9          5.6
Has the project attacked rural poverty? In all, the survey showed not significant changes in the poverty
levels of the rehabilitated sample compared to the control sample, although there appears to be a tendency
to improved living conditions (such as availability of potable water, lighting, or communal facilities) or
availability of goods (such as televisions, tractors or bicycles) for households in the project sample. This
suggests that conditions might be improving, but yet they are not reflected in the poverty
categories.
A comparison of poverty rates -i.e., the percentage of the population living in households with a per capita
consumption below the poverty line-- shows similar results between households benefited by the project and
those who compose the control sample, though slightly lower in the control group. The depth of poverty is
also very similar, though slightly higher for the project sample, compared to those in the control sample.
The depth of poverty is measured by the poverty gap index, which estimates the average distance
separating the poor from the poverty line as a proportion of that line):
Incidence of Poverty         RoadAccess              NMTAccess
(% of population bearing poverty)   Project  Control    Project    Control
TOTAL                              100.00      100.00     100.00      100.00
Total Poor                          69.23       68.29      73.15       70.10
*  Extremely poor                   38.04      36.18       42.99      36.86
*  Notextremelypoor                31.19       32.12       30.16      33.25
Not poor                            30.77       31.71      26.85       29.90
Poverty Gap (%)                     28.47       26.95      28.92       26.17
However, clear indications of the positive impact of the project on rural poverty emerge from the analysis
of the survey data and its comparison with recent poverty data in Peru:
An analysis based on the initial endowment of public and private assets for households in both the
project and the control samples, suggests that although "control roads" were carefully selected to
ensure they served areas with characteristics essentially similar to those of the sampled "project
roads", still there were differences in the level of assets owned by households in each sample.
Control groups had a better endowment of certain assets: a greater percentage of households in the
control group have access to electricity, own on average almost I hectare more of land, and their
other productive assets have 50% more value than those of the households in the project sarnple.
Something similar happens with the rates for extreme poverty. However, if a statistical analysis is
performed controlling for the different possession of assets by the respective households, the net
effect of the project is a reduction of the poverty rate in 1.22 percentage points for households with
access to motorized roads and 0,66 percentage points for those with access to NMT paths. The
impact is greater when dealing with extreme poverty: the rate of extreme poverty falls as a result of
the project in 1.66 percentage points and 2.65 percentage points for households with access to
motorized roads and NMT paths respectively. Although these are not dramatic impacts, they are
- 60 -



within the range that could be expected in a context where the impacts are usually of a long term
nature.
Furthermore, when measured up to recent poverty data in Peru, it appears that the project did have a
noticeable impact in arresting the increase in poverty rates that has taken place in Peru between 1997
and 2000. A recent survey shows that between those two years, overall poverty increased from 51
percent to 54 percent.Y  This appears to show that the project may have at least prevented a further
deterioration of poverty indicators in the project areas.
In sum, the impact survey shows a discernible support for the project as expressed by the interviewed
population and the benefits perceived by them. The major-most immediate impact-appears to focus on
travel conditions and the possibilities it brings about to increase social relationships and access to markets,
health services, and educational facilities. The surveys however does not provide a clear and conclusive
evidence that the rehabilitated roads have brought about substantial economic development (as reflected in
better terms of trade or increases in agricultural and livestock production) or poverty reduction. In spite of
the fact the survey includes a control sample (to which the same overall, broader country and worldwide
impacts should apply), the results appear to show that the project has initiated the improvement of the
livelihood of local conditions during a period where countrywide poverty indicators worsened. In all, the
project, if sustained, should produce more noticeable impacts on poverty and economic development
indicators.
Instituto Cuanto (2000), "Evaluaci6n de Impactos del Proyecto de Caininos Rurales: Informe Final," Mimeo, Lima, Peru.
The confidence level of the impact analysis is 92.5 percent, though for particular types of analysis (such as those on the
differing impact of projects depending on their presence within an economic corridor or an area of concentration of
investments) the survey is not statistically significant. Retrospective (before the project) and current (after the project) data
were both obtained through the surveys and interviews carried out in March 2000. For some variables it was very difficult to
obtain the past monetary value by just relying on personal recollection; consequently, in these instances present values of
both types of roads (i.e. sample and control roads) were compared, assuming past values were the same as current. Since
this is a very strong assumption, the resulting indicators do not have as high a level of confidence as that of indicators whose
baseline could be reconstructed.
Instituto Cuanto (1994, 1997 and 2000) "Encuesta Nacional de Niveles de Vida", Lima, Peru.
- 61 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
In line with the consultation plan agreed upon in July 2000 for preparation of the Learning ICR, a series of
workshops were held in October 2001 to get feedback from a broad base of stakeholders (beneficiaries, key
government and civil society representatives) on the outcome of the project and the lessons learned from its
execution, which could be applied to the design a follow on (Second) Rural Roads Project. The workshops
entailed four levels of consultation:
Internal with PCR regional managers. The workshop was held in Lima and lasted two days. The
emphasis was on how to improve project arrangements to work more effectively with local authorities,
especially in the context of the proposed Mechanism for Cofinancing Maintenance (MCM). The group
reviewed the results of the workshops held with provincial and district majors in about 22 provinces to
agree upon the arrangements for the MCM. The review also identified measures to strengthen management
of both routine and periodic maintenance, criteria for prioritization of resource allocations among
departments, participatory procedures for preparation of provincial plans, and the quality of pre-investment
studies.
Inter-institutional with key transport and economic authorities and representativesfrom
non-governmental agencies in charge of implementing rural poverty alleviation programs in Peru (e.g.,
MTC, ODI, USAID, Caritas, PACT). The discussions centered on the project design, its outcomes, the
areas where greater coordination is needed, and strategic decisions aimed at strengthening the framework
for road maintenance and project sustainability. In particular the workshop validated the "network
approach" chosen under the project to effectively link rural communities with economic centers, and
highlighted the need to monitor the condition of those roads rehabilitated or maintained by DGC or
SINMAC when they become critical connectors for the networks rehabilitated under the project.
MEF presented a new Poverty Map proposed as a tool to rationalize public social expenditure and improve
coordination among social programs. The discussion with non-governmental agencies aimed at articulating
the various impact surveys into recommendations for policy and project design. i) targeting rural poverty
alleviation interventions should not miss the critical link between rural communities and the intermediate
cities that control markets, which calls for a broader intervention strategy, possibly at the province level; ii)
there is an increasing need to coordinate interventions. This is much easier at local levels, where it
translates into action, than at central level, where it must be strategic and policy-oriented. The confluence
of activities in certain areas produces synergies. The greater the confluence, the greater the probability of
the a more sustainable success; iii) different forms of intervention are needed because resources are limited
and the needs of the poor are different. Experience suggests that distance to markets and population size are
critical factors for differentiating interventions. When dealing with rural communities relatively close to
intermediate cities/markets, interventions can effectively build on the dynamics of labor markets. When
dealing with scarcely populated (less than 500 inhabitants) and distant commnunities, interventions are more
effective if they focus on mobile assets and human and social capital development. These recommendations
are being considered for the design of a "local development window" under the proposed follow on
operation.
Two beneficiary workshops in the department of Apurimac. The department of Apurmiac was chosen
because it epitomizes the accessibility constraints prevailing in the highlands of Peru. Participants were
divided into focus groups based on their common interests, and presented with three questions to validate
the project outcomes reported in the project impact assessment (performed by Cuanto) and derive lessons
for the design of the follow on operation: To what extent has the project improved access and travel
conditions to your communities? What changes did the project bring to your livelihoods? How can we
- 62 -



improve the design of the project to ensure that future activities contribute more effectively to your local
development needs? A summary of the findings is reported in Boxes I and 2. The first workshop, held in
the province, of Abancay gathered about 124 people representing provincial and district authorities (19),
rural communities (21), microentrepreneurs (60), grassroots women groups (18), and NGOs active in the
province (6). The second workshop was held in the countryside, near the district of Cachora, where
neighboring communities had benefited only from improvements to non-motorized tracks. This workshop
attracted 91 people representing local authorities (5), FONCODES and local NGOs (4), community leaders
(39), women groups (29) and Rural Road Committees (14). It was extremely rich in lessons on how to
enhance the sustainability of NMT improvements, increase participation of women, and bolster
opportunities to strengthen social capital and undertake local development initiatives. The active
involvement of local leaders in organizing the workshops is another indication that PCR has established
the credibility needed to develop synergies and build partnerships with other programs
In the workshops the participants expressed the positive social and economic impacts that the project-
highlighting in particular the rehabilitation and maintenance works and the improvements to the village
streets and NMT tracks-has brought about to those communities. Those impacts appear to have
stimulated an enhanced dynamism of the rural economies (expanding the activities beyond agricultural
activities and into the provision of tourism services and the production of crafts). They also emphasize
their willingness to complement the activities of NGOs, the PCR and relevant institutions. The latter
appears to reflect the impression that better coordinating mechanisms among stakeholders can further spur
improvements to the well-being of the communities. Women particularly appreciate it the works on NMT
tracks as a way to reduce the dangers of walking along those paths and facilitate the cultivation of
agricultural plots previously inaccessible, helping to increase agricultural production and with that the
satisfaction of household needs and the education of their children.
More specifically, the workshop participants identified safety, transitability and reliability (during the
whole 24 hours of a day) as key direct impacts of the rehabilitated roads and NMT tracks. In all, these
impact lead to improved commercial interchanges and the inflow of tourists. References to improved
access to education and health services were frequent. Furthermore, the participants assessed positively the
creation and functioning of the maintenance micro-enterprises and looked for further avenues to expand the
participation of local people in road maintenance and rehabilitation activities.
Towards the future, the communities proposed specific actions to improve the impacts from the
rehabilitated roads, such as: (i) further participation of social organizations in the maintenance of the roads;
(ii) training of micro-enterprises to expand their activities into period maintenance; (iii) use of local
enterprises to undertake the rehabilitation works; (iv) construction of rest areas with access to water along
the roads; (v) reforestation to improve soil conservation; and (vi) sustained financial resources to continue
with the road rehabilitation and maintenance program. In all, the workshops reflected a genuine interest by
the participants in galvanizing the communities' strengths and social capital in the implementation of the
project (and its second phase) towards reversing the lethargy of the rural economies and opening the path to
improvements in their well-being. The project appears to have stimulated the entrepreneurial abilities of
local communities and with them the diversification of their economic activities and a yearning for
improved knowledge of coordinated poverty-reduction actions.
A think-tank meeting with participation of local and international experts from civil society, research
organizations, the IDB and the Banks thematic group. This is a first effort by PCR to further the
discussion of rural development issues and establish a forum where think-tanks could contribute with their
knowledge and the results of their research activities to the forrnulation of strategies for poverty reduction
in the Andes and the interpretation of the social and economic assessments carried out and planned for the
- 63 -



future under PCR's program. The discussions centered on the project outcomes, the extent to what it is
possible to fine-tune the social and economic screening of subprojects to better reflect the findings of the
various impact surveys, and the areas where the potential impact of integrating interventions is greater (i.e.,
where the profitability of the communities' stock of public and private assets gains from combining
improved access with other interventions). Participants generally supported the social and economic
eligibility criteria used under the project. However, the fact that they could not contribute with more
focused ideas highlights the complexity of the issue and the need for further research.
- 64 -



Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Final Evaluation Report Summary
INFORME FINAL DE EJECUCION DE LA PRIMERA FASE DEL PROGRAMA CAMINOS
RURALES (PCR - MTC)
A.-    Antecedentes:
Uno de los principales objetivos del gobiemo es la reducci6n de la pobreza en el pais. Sobre el particular se
ha disefiado una Estrategia de Lucha contra la Pobreza Extrema que contempla, entre sus elementos
principales, la implementaci6n de Programas de estabilizacion econ6mica, y Programas de Estabilizacion
Social, c6mo apoyos fundamentales para impulsar el desarrollo del pais, en este sentido se ha considerado
prioritario el desarrollo de la infraestructura vial del pais.
Dentro de esta politica se han generado proyectos con el objetivo general de conseguir un sistema vial bien
integrado y confiable, mediante la rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento de caminos, con este proposito se gener6
el Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n de Transportes PERT, conformado por dos Programas: Programa de
Rehabilitaci6n de Transporte (PRT) para consolidar la Red Basica nacional y el Programa de
Rehabilitaci6n y Mantenimiento de Caminos Rurales (PCR), para impulsar y dinamizar las economias
Rurales y coadyuvar en la lucha contra la pobreza.
El Programa de Caminos Rurales se inicio en el ailo de 1995, habiendose previsto efectuarlo en dos etapas,
el primer convenio se suscribe en Diciembre de 1995, habiendo las obras concluido en Diciembre 2000, la
segunda fase debe iniciarse en Setiembre del anio 2001, por un periodo de cuatro anlos ampliando la
cobertura del Programa incluyendo la construcci6n de embarcaderos y adicionando los departamentos de
Ucayali y Arequipa en el Ambito de acci6n del PCR.
El balance de la primera etapa pone en evidencia el exito del Programa, se han superado las metas
propuestas y ha tenido efectos positivos sobre los niveles de vida de las poblaciones mas pobres del pais,
habiendo beneficiados a mas de 3'500 habitantes de las zonas rurales y alejadas de nuestro territorio, ya
que el Programa ha centrado su atenci6n en las provincias con mas alto grado de pobreza.
Siendo los avances elocuentes, queda el desaflo de dar sostenibilidad al Programa en el mediano y largo
plazo, ya que no se cuenta con recursos financieros similares a los de la primera fase, para la segunda fase
la inversi6n estA restringida, debido a que gran paTte de los fondos estan dirigidos al mantenimiento de las
vias rehabilitadas, por lo cual entre otros es necesario fortalecer la capacidad de gesti6n vial de las
municipalidades y transferir el mantenimiento vialt y asimismo reforzar a las microempresas a traves de una
capacitaci6n tecnica, financiera y administrativa que les pernita en la medida de lo posible autosostenerse
generando otros ingresos creando proyectos productivos y/o comerciales.
B.-    Descripci6n y Objetivos del Proyecto
La red vial nacional esta conformada por aproximadamente por 78,036 Kil6metros conformada por la Red
Basica Nacional, (16,858 .Kms), secundaria, (14,268 Kms ) siendo la mas extensa la correspondiente a los
caminos vecinales, que tienen una longitud de 46,910 Kms, (no incluye los caminos de Herradura), la
jurisdicci6n establece que corresponde a las municipalidades la gesti6n vial, pero dada las carencias
fmancieras e institucionales de los gobiernos locales, el gobiemo nacional se vio en la necesidad de actuar,
donde no era su competencia funcional.
-65 -



La estrategia del MTC es intervenir en la vialidad terciaria mientras asiste a los municipios a desarrollar la
capacidad de gesti6n vial y transferir posteriormente esta gesti6n a las municipalidades, en este marco
propici6 la creacion del Programa de Caminos Rurales, generando una Unidad Ejecutora con autonomia
tecnica administrativa, y financiera con jerarquia, para Ilevar a cabo el Programa.
Este Programa se inscribe en el marco de la Lucha contra la Pobreza, y tiene como caracteristica de no
estar dirigidos a las familias sino mas bien a la comunidad, en este contexto el Programa defini6 su ambito
de acci6n utilizando los indicadores socio econ6micos de zonas geograficas (mapas de pobreza ) que
guardan estrecha relaci6n con la carencia de infraestructura vial publica adecuada, identificando los
siguientes departamentos: Ayacucho, Apurimac, Ancash, Huancavelica, Puno, Cusco, Cajamarca, Madre
de Dios, Junin, San Martin, Huanuco y Cerro de Pasco como su anbito de acci6n.
Objetivo General: Restablecer la transitabilidad de las carreteras vecinales 6 rurales seleccionadas en las
zonas de mayor pobreza del Peru, asegurando su mantenimiento posterior "Su fmalidad es rehabilitar el
estado de deterioro en que se encuentran los caminos rurales y los principales enlaces que conectan al
sistema vial del pais, lievando a cabo su mantenimiento mediante la participaci6n de las municipalidades y
la comunidad organizada"
Objetivos Especificos: i)Facilitar el transporte de productos a los centros de consumo, el acceso a los
pueblos rurales a mejores servicios y la llegada de insumos a la zonas de producci6n ii) Reducir los costos
de transporte mejorar la seguridad vial de los caminos rurales, iii) Mejorar las condiciones de transporte en
el medio rural y reducir los tiempos de viaje iv) Promover la institucionalizaci6n de la capacidad tecnica y
administrativa de los gobiemos locales y la comunidad para participar en el mantenimiento de los caminos
rurales v) Contribuir a la preservaci6n del medio ambiente.
Para la ejecuci6n del CRI, el MTC creo una Unidad Ejecutora, Identificada como Programa de Caminos
Rurales (PCR), iniciandose cono una unidad centralizada en Lima, gradualmente fue generando oficinas en
los departamentos del ambito de acci6n del PCR, (Unidades de Ejecuci6n Desconcentradas UED), a
quienes se les fue transfrriendo paulatinamente responsabilidades operativas, al cierre de la Fase I, se
cuenta con diez zonales y una oficina de coordinacion (madre de Dios) en vias de convertirse en una unidad
zonal, ya que estA en tramite esta gesti6n.
El Programa al rehabilitar caminos en areas rurales y relativamente aisladas, fomenta el desarrollo de la
agricultura y su integraci6n con los mercados, al brindar mejor accesibilidad a las comunidades logra que
los servicios sociales se presten con mayor eficiencia, al propiciar la capacitaci6n en la gesti6n municipal,
promueve la modernizaci6n de la administraci6n puTblica provincial y distrital.
- 66 -



C).- Componentes del Proyecto
METAS                       US$ (miles)
Rehabilitacion y Mantenimiento                                                     177,703
de Red Vial
i) Rehabilitaci6n de Caminos                      7,500 kms                         88,500
Rurales
ii) Rehab. Interconexi6n de                       2,200 kms                         45,784
Caminos Secundarias
iii) Mantenimiento Rutinario de                   9,700 kms                         10,856
Carninos (mano de obra)
iv) Mantenimiento rutinario de                                                       5,428
Caniinos con equipo
v) Mejoramiento de calles y                             140                         24,185
poblados
vi) Mejoramiento de sistemas de                                                      2,950
caminos no clasificados
Servicio de Consultoria (Estudio                                                    22,165
de Preinversi6n, Supervisi6n
Obras, Auditorias)
Fortalecimiento Institucional                                                        9,322
(Asistencia Tecnica para diversas
actividades, Capacitaci6n)
Imprevistos                                                                         29,510
Administraci6n                                                                      10,700
Inspecci6n y Vigilancia                                                               900
COSTO TOTAL DEL                                                                    250,300
PROGRAMA
El financiamiento del BID y del BIRF corresponden a US$ 90 millones de d6lares cada entidad y el aporte
del Gobiemo previsto fue de US$ 70,300 millones.
El plazo real de la ejecucion del proyecto comprende el periodo 1996-2000, ya que los convenios de
prestamos se firmaron en Noviembre y Diciembre de 1995, las obras se inician en el afio 1996.
D.-   Evaluacion de los Resultados del Proyecto
D. 1. Ejecuci6n Financiera del Provecto
Al 30 de Diciembre del afio 2000, incluyendo pagos pendientes se estima el cierre del Convenio de
Prestamo en Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID), desembolso de 90 millones de d6lares, Banco
Mundial (BIRF) el monto de US$ 88,700 el aporte Local en US$ 89,895 saldo que queda en el BIRF, se
ha debido ha restricciones presupuestales y ha demoras en el MEF para autorizar desembolsos desde el afio
1999, lo que afecto el normal desenvolvimiento de las actividades del programa, redujo el ritmo de trabajo
del Proyecto y fue necesario extender la fecha de cierre de los prestamos hasta el 31 de Diciembre del 2000,
debiendo precisar que por restricciones presupuestales, se cancelaran durante el primer trimestre del afno
2,001 pagos correspondientes al afno 2000, este hecho repercute negativamente en el Programa, ya que
afecta su credibilidad y sobretodo se impone una carga excesivamente pesada para las pequefias empresas
- 67 -



y microempresas de mantenimiento rural, y afecta asi mismo el presupuesto del afio 2001.
Cabe anotar que los mayores gastos en administraci6n se han originado por un mayor plazo en la ejecuci6n
del programa, asi c6mo por la implementaci6n de las Unidades Zonales.
D:2 Ejecuci6n Fisica del Provecto
Las metas fisicas superan ampliamente las programadas para la primera fase del programa Al cierre de la
Fase I , las metas fisicas superan 18 % la rehabilitacion de los caminos vecinales y en 8% a los caminos
secundarios (incluyen tramos nacionales), y en mantenimiento 11,400 kms. Habiendose constituido 410
microempresas de mantenimiento vial (MEMV) generando 4,706 puestos de trabajo permanente ( socios de
las microempresas), y con la ejecuci6n de las obras de rehabilitaci6n vial se han generado 26,237 puestos
de trabajo eventuales.
En el siguiente Cuadro Resumen se puede observar las metas alcanzadas por el Programa:
Rehabilitaci6n y
Mantenimiento de Red
Vial                       Programado              Ejecutado
i) Rehabilitaci6n de
Caminos Rurales             7,500 kms                8,882                  118
ii) Rehab. Interconexi6n
de Caminos Secundarios      2,200 kms                2,368                  108
(1)
iii) Mantenimiento
Rutinario de Caminos        9,700 kms               10,881
iv) Mejoramniento de
calles pobladas                141                    174                   123
v) Mejoramiento de
sistemas de caminos no
clasificados                   1,500                 3,053                  204
(1) Incluyen caminos de la red basica nacional.
D.3 Indicadores de Insumo Producto del PCR
El Programa cuenta con tres tipos de indicadores:
Indicadores de Desarrollo, Indicadores de Gestion e Indicadores Fisicos. Entre los indicadores de
Desarrollo, tenemos % de comunidades inter conectadas por un sistema de transporte confiable, reducci6n
de tarifas de transporte, incremento del trafico comercial, nuimero acumulado de puestos de trabajo no
calificados, de beneficiarios, de contratistas, de microempresas de mantenimiento, de pueblos rurales con
calles mejoradas, de comunidades rurales que se han mejorado caminos de herradura, etc.
Indicadores de gesti6n, tenemos, numero de departamentos activos del programa, numero de provincias y
distritos atendidos, numero acumulado de contratos de estudios, obras, y supervision ejecutados.
- 68 -



Indicadores fisicos, tenemos, los kil6metros rehabilitados en caminos vecinales, secundarios e incluso de la
red basica nacional, nuimero de kilometros en mantenimiento rutinario, numero acumulado de calles y
caminos de herradura mejorados.
E. - IMPACTOS DEL PROGRAMA
Evaluando los resultados del Programa, se estima que el proyecto ha demostrado eficacia en las estrategias
claves que se adoptaron, lograndose los objetivos primarios que se plantearon, destacando en particular
que el programa beneficia directa o indirectamente 96 provincias y 466 distritos,alcanzando una poblaci6n
de 2.8 millones de beneficiarios directos y 0.73 millones de beneficiarios indirectos, siendo la meta inicial
propuesta de 3 millones.
Asimismo se debe tener en cuenta:
E. l. Gestion Vial: Supero las metas previstas:
(i)  El restablecimiento de condiciones de accesibilidad y operaci6n satisfactoria en los caminos rurales y
secundarios a traves de obras de rehabilitaci6n a un menor costo de lo originalmente previsto.
(ii)  La permanencia de estas condiciones, ya que inmediatamente de concluir las obras en los caminos
vecinales, ingresan a un plan de mantenimiento rutinario adecuado y continuo bajo una supervisi6n
acertada.
(iii) El mantenimiento de los caminos rurales y secundarios se ha logrado a traves de pequefias empresas
locales conformadas por los miembros de la comunidad y/o pobladores del 6rea de influencia del
camino, bajo una adecuada organizaci6n y supervisi6n, como estrategia para asegurar una mayor
eficiencia y responsabilidad por los resultados logrados ante la poblaci6n y la comunidad.
(iv)  La participaci6n comunitaria de las autoridades locales, comunidades y beneficiarios en los procesos
de selecci6n de inversiones a traves de los talleres de participaci6n comunitaria, ha sido uno de los
mayores exitos del programa.
(v)  Esta participacion de la comunidad organizada y poblaci6n en general ha propiciado una visi6n
integradora sobre las necesidades de transporte de la poblaci6n rural y un fortalecimiento de la red
vial al incluirse caminos de herradura.
E.2 Gesti6n Econ6mica - Social
El estudio efectuado por la consultora Cuanto, entre marzo -agosto del 2000 sobre " Evaluaci6n
Economica, social de los Impactos del Proyecto" muestra que los impactos han sido positivos, y que las
obras de rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento de los caminos han tenido un impacto muy significativo,
especialmente los ligados al sector transportes, (reducci6n de tiempo de traslado, incremento del transito,
reducci6n de fletes, pasajes, mayor seguridad, ). El mantenimiento de los caminos atendidos por el
Programa es mucho mejor que los que son atendidos por otras unidades, lo que avala el exito de la
estrategia adoptada para el mantenimiento, asimismo se ha mejorado el acceso a servicios basicos de salud,
educaci6n, movilidad de la poblaci6n para buscar otras oportunidades de mejoras de trabajo, fortalecer los
mercados a traves de una mejor accesibilidad, la falta de una linea de base no ha pennitido analizar con
mayor detalle los impactos, tambien se debe tener en cuenta que la intervencion del programa en promedio
es de dos afios, tiempo todavia corto para evaluar los resultados con mayor claridad . Cabe precisar que si
bien es cierto la construcci6n y rehabilitaci6n de caminos es el elemento que mas incide en el desarrollo
rural, es imprescindible la concurrencia de los otros sectores para lograr un desarrollo rural efectivo.
- 69 -



E.3. Gesti6n Administrativa
El PCR, demostr6 ser una s6lida organizaci6n y de capacidad de gesti6n administrativa, evidenci6
capacidad para ejecutar el proyecto con una visi6n de desarrollo que excedi6 las actividades propias de
rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento de caminos. Pudo Ilevar con exito la contrataci6n de un gran numero de
pequenas empresas para estudios, obras, y supervisi6n en zonas apartadas y lejanas del pais. Supo plantear
soluciones novedosas a los retos que se presentaban, en planeamniento al no contar con planes de desarrollo
rural, propici6 la participaci6n comunitaria, entre 1996 y 1997 se realizaron aproximadamente 70 talleres
de piorizaci6n de caminos vecinales y de herradura, involucrando 600 municipios distritales, 150
provinciales, y la participaci6n de aproximadamente representantes de 700 comunidades rurales. Este
mecanismo de planificaci6n participativa permiti6 identificar la demanda social existente y contar con el
criterio de la comunidad en la piorizaci6n de las inversiones. Este accionar permitio trabajar efectivamente
con autoridades locales y comunidades, y que la poblaci6n sintiera que se trabaja en equipo, ya no son las
autoridades de la capital la que deciden la prioridad de las obras ha realizar, se trabaja en formna conjunta,
esto es uno de los mas importantes 6xitos del Programa, el respeto hacia el trabajo que realiza y la
Credibilidad ante la comunidad ganada en su anbito de acci6n.
E.4. Gesti6n Institucional (Cofinanciamiento municipal)
En esta primera fase el PCR orient6 sus acciones a poner en marcha arreglos institucionales apropiados
para la gesti6n de estas redes a nivel local y demostrar eficacia y los beneficios de una buena conservaci6n
pero estas actividades han sido insuficientes para lograr el Cofinanciameinto municipal es imnprescindible
que las municipalidades adquieran capacidad institucional, tecnica, y financiera para que asuman la
responsabilidad de la gesti6n de la red vial terciaria. En la segunda fase es fundamental lograr que las
municipalidades cuenten con recursos propios para continuar con el mantenimiento y asimismo tengan la
capacitaci6n adecuada para asumir con 6xito la responsabilidad que les compete.
E.S. Gesti6n de CaDacitaci6n (Formaci6n de Microempresas )
La Capacitaci6n efectuada por el PCR, a las microempresas de mantenimiento vial tanto t6cnica c6nmo
administrativamente ha abierto un nuevo mundo a los pueblos y comunidades rurales alejados de los
centros urbanos donde es tan comun el fen6meno infornal, en el mundo rural no existe un medio
empresarial, un espiritu empresarial, ni siquiera existe un cultura empresarial Es un planteamiento nuevo
que crea esperanza de desarrollo para las zonas rurales, generando otras microempresas de
servicios(transportes, agricultura, servicios,etc)
Por primera vez es posible pensar en el alivio a la pobreza, en la esperanza de crear mercados locales
din&nicos que finalmente conduzca a un desarrollo sostenido
F. -   Desempefio de los Organismos Prestatarios
La participacion de los funcionarios tanto del BID como del BIRF, ha sido permanente desde la
preparaci6n, evaluaci6n y supervisi6n durante la ejecuci6n del Programa, han brindado continuo
asesoramiento en todos los niveles, administrativos, operativos y t6cnicos, lo que ha contribuido a superar
las metas previstas inicialnente en el Programa.
- 70 -



Esta permanente asesoramiento se ha reflejado en las continuas visitas de las misiones, equipos de trabajo
de funcionarios de los Bancos, estableciendose una relaci6n cordial que permiti6 una evaluacion continua
de los avances y logros que se obtenian, colaborando en la solucion de los problemas que se presentaban,
formulando recomendaciones y aprobando requerimientos con oportunidad y flexibilidad.
Los desembolsos fueron hechos con prontitud, pudiendo el Programa afrontar los pagos con la fuentes
endeudamiento externo con oportunidad, si hubo demoras fue ex6geno a los Bancos. Asimismo las
repuestas de los Bancos a solicitudes de No Objecion han sido en tiempo razonable, lo que ha permitido un
normal desenvolvimiento de las actividades.
Cabe resaltar, que los funcionarios de los Bancos, demostraron identificaci6n con los objetivos del
Programa, lo que propici6 mecanismos innovadores en la soluci6n de los problemas que se afrontaban en
su ejecuci6n, planteando soluciones, apoyando la reactivaci6n de las economias rurales, (formaci6n de
microempresas) y en la lucha contra la pobreza, (generaci6n de empleo). Mostraron especial interes en el
medio ambiente, apoyando el Convenio con PRONAMACHS, que ha significado un aporte de beneficios
incalculables, ya que la comunidad organizada, los municipios han comenzado ha tomar conciencia de la
importancia del medio ambiente, ya que a traves de los microempresarios se ha logrado implantar mas de 1'
500 mil plantones, a lo largo de los caminos rurales rehabilitados.
Asimismo el hecho de que los equipos multidiciplinarios de funcionarios de los Bancos, participaran en los
talleres municipales, ha sido trascendente, ya que el BID y el BIRF, ya no son esos organismos lejanos, que
solo escuchan a las altas autoridades de Lima, y no conocen la realidad del interior del Peri, sus verdaderas
necesidades, esta participacion ha contribuido a que la imagen del PCR, en los departamentos que trabaja,
sea muy buena, tenga Credibilidad, ya que para las comunidades rurales y la poblaci6n en general
representa la esperanza de que sus demandas sean escuchadas, este contacto ha sido directo, han tenido un
acercamiento natural con las comunidades, recorriendo los caminos vecinales y tomando contacto no solo
con las autoridades sino la poblacion en general.
En esta Fase 1, hubiera sido deseable la participaci6n de un experto en Sistemas que asesorara a crear el
Centro de Informaci6n y la Base de Datos que hubiera sido deseable, asi c6mo tener todos los estudios en
medios magneticos.
Asi mismo es deseable que los bancos,tome en cuenta la necesidad de mantener al PCR, como unidad
ejecutora independiente, fortaleciendo su autonomia y autoridad en la administraci6n y supervisi6n en las
actividades que desempefia.
G.-   Lecciones aprendidas del Programa.
Sin dejar de reconocer lo exitoso que ha sido la Fase I de Caminos Rurales, mirando el desempefio de los
diferentes componentes y actividades realizadas identificamos algunas debilidades que se han producido y
que se deben tener en cuenta para la Fase II.
G. 1 Sostenibilidad del mantenimiento rutinario de los caminos rurales.
Una de las debilidades del Programa es la sostenibilidad del mantenimiento rutinario por loas
municipalidades, en la Fase i no se ha logrado concretar esta actividad, y el Programa se ve dificultado por
la carga fmanciera creciente que representa el costo del mantenimiento de los caminos rehabilitados. En
ese sentido, el problema aqui, consiste en garantizar el fmanciamiento del costo total del mantenimiento
- 71 -



rutinario de los caminos rurales rehabilitados por el PCR; es decir, se trata de garantizar el financiamiento
de los 10,881 Kms.
G.2 Sistema de Informaci6n:
Uno de los principales problemas con los que cuenta en la actualidad el PCR es que la informaci6n no esta
disponible, ni es oportuna para la toma de decisiones. En ese sentido, es importante implementar un sistema
integrado y centralizado de informaci6n que permita no s6lo recopilaci6n de informaci6n (con unidades de
medida claras) desde donde se producen las mismas. Sino tambien permita administrar, monitorear, evaluar
las acciones en el momento oportuno, de cada uno de los componentes del Programa. (avance de metas y
logro de objetivos propuestos, los mismos que nos deben de pennitir realizar los ajustes necesarios durante
el proceso) y contar asimismo con la sistematizaci6n de los aspectos socio - econ6micos de los estudios.
G.3 Supervisi6n de Estudios
La calidad de los estudios debe mejorar en especial lo referente a los aspectos socio- econ6micos, asimismo
es importante tener un buen control de calidad en los estudios de Ingenieria, (topogrAficos, geol6gicos,
disefho..), de medio ambiente ya que nuestro pais tiene diferentes ecosistemas y se necesitan plantear
soluciones adecuadas, el expediente tecnico debe considerar puntos criticos, y estabilizaci6n de taludes,
mitigaci6n de impactos ambientales y en lo posible la seguridad vial. La aprobaci6n de los estudios
Tecnicos-econ6micos debe ser exigente ya que un buen estudio asegura la ejecuci6n de una buena obra,
ademas permite evaluar con mayor precisi6n el impacto de la rehabilitacion de los caminos vecinales en las
economias rurales al disponer de buena infonraci6n socio-econ6mica.
G.4 Planificaci6n
Es necesario que mejorar la planificaci6n a nivel Programa, como a nivel de gerencias y Oficinas, en
general se ha trabajado tratando de resolver los problemas del "cada dia', aunque dado las caracteristica de
la instituci6n, ese tipo de actividades no van a desaparecer y siempre van ha existir pero es importante que
como Instituci6n se tengan objetivos y pautas de direccionalidad del proceso bastante claras, programaci6n
de acciones compatibles con los objetivos, estrategias de intervenci6n definidas y flexibles en el tiempo y
sistemas de monitoreo y evaluaci6n continua y peri6dica respecto al grado de cumplimiento de los objetivos
y las metas de las actividades.
H.-   Recomendaciones
H. 1 Fortalecimiento v Cofinanciamiento Municipal
Si queremos liberar al Programa, de la presion financiera que genera el mantenimiento, es importante dar
operatividad, tanto a los arreglos institucionales, legales, financieros y los compromisos de
cofinanciamiento en aquellos municipios que han concertado y aprobado su participaci6n en dicho
mecanismo de financiamiento econ6mico. Esto no s6lo permitira poner a prueba los arreglos, sino tambien
liberar la exposici6n fnanciera del MTC. En ese sentido, es importante poner en marcha el mecanismo de
cofmanciamiento del mantenimiento de los caminos rurales.
Es ineludible mantener los caminos rehabilitados, que aseguren no solo la transitabilidad de las vias sino
que proteger la inversi6n realizada, por lo que es esencial el fortalecimiento de las municipalidades y una
adecuada capacitaci6n a fin de transferir esta funci6n que les compete.
- 72 -



H.2 Sistemas de Informaci6n
Es preciso considerar en los estudios tecnicos - econ6micos sean efectuados en medios magneticos a fin de
conformar una Base de Datos agil, flexible y oportuna a los requerimientos de las Instituciones y de los
usuarios en general, y en lo referente a los aspectos socioecon6micos va a propiciar el crear una de Base de
Datos confiable, que coadyuvara a la evaluaci6n ex post, e intercambiar informaci6n con otras entidades en
forma eficiente.
Desarrollar un sistema informatico que permita contar con una Base de Datos adecuada, tanto tecnica
como administrativa, de manera que las unidades zonales tengan acceso a la informaci6n y compartan
archivos, lo que propendera a un mejor seguimiento y monitoreo de las obras y el mantenimiento.
H.3 Normatividad
Las responsabilidades de los gobiernos locales deben ser aclaradas con urgencia, ya que actualmente
diversas instituciones participan en la rehabilitaci6n y/o construcci6n de los tres niveles de la Red Nacional,
(BAsica, Secundaria, Vecinal), lo que genera confusi6n sobre que nivel es responsable de los caminos
rurales, aunque la Ley Organica municipal, exige que los municipios mantengan la red vial rural, estos
carecen de capacidad institucional para administrar las redes viales rurales, pero estAn en mejor posici6n
que el gobiemo central para decidir la prioridad de los caminos a rehabilitar y/o construir, por lo tanto es
indispensable fortalecer a los municipios tanto tecnica como adrninistrativamente.
Respecto al punto anterior es esencial que el sector transportes, expida el Reglamento de jerarquizaci6n
Vial, de acuerdo a lo dispuesto por la Ley General de Transporte, en dicho Reglamento se espera se precise
el ambito de acci6n de las diversas entidades del estado, en lo referente a la Gesti6n vial.
No tenemos una normatividad que penmita controlar el transito de vehiculos pesados, lo que origina que
pasen unidades de transporte con mayor tonelaje al disefiado lo que propicia un temprano deterioro de la
superficie de rodadura.
H.4 Capacitaci6n
Es importante considerar la capacitaci6n del personal del Programa de Caminos Rurales, que pernitan la
actualizaci6n del personal profesional, tecnico y auxiliar, para que tomen conocimiento de nuevas
tecnologias de construcci6n, de mantenimiento, optimizaci6n de procesos administrativos, de computo, y en
especial capacitaci6n con los organismos de Control a fin de elaborar expedientes de adicionales,
deductivos, pr6rrogas y otros de acuerdo normatividad vigente y evitar procesos administrativos por falla
en alg6n procedimiento.
Asimismo se debe propiciar la capacitaci6n y actualizaci6n de los profesionales y tecnicos de las empresas
privadas que prestan servicios al Programa, ya que se debe exigir la utilizaci6n de sistemas de computo en
el diseiio de carreteras (Autocad, 6 similares) y asiimismo los planos post constructivos deben ser
entregados en medios magneticos.
H.5 Concertaci6n
Interna, entre los organismos del sector, a fin de no duplicar esfuerzos, y tender a complementar obras 6
proyectos viales que permitan consolidar ejes de desarrollo, circuitos turisticos, a fm de coadyuvar a la
integraci6n de la Red Vial del pais.
- 73 -



Externa, con organismos extemos que tienen similares objetivos, y que unidos se puede lograr mejores
resultados, caso ministerio de agricultura (PRONAMASH), Ministerio de la Presidencia (FONCODES),
Educaci6n, Salud, y en general con todos aquellas organizaciones que luchen contra la pobreza y
desarrollan sus actividades en el ambito de acci6n del PCR.
H.6 Otros aspectos
Seria conveniente que una vez concluidos los estudios, se convoque su ejecuci6n a fin de no perder su
vigencia, ya que se ha dado el caso de que se han convocado obras con expedientes hechos con mas de dos
anios de antigiledad, lo que ha originado problemas en el control y seguimiento de ejecuci6n de las obras.
Se deben elaborar Cronogramas de actividades (estudios y Obras), teniendo en consideraci6n tiempos
razonables y flexibles que permnitan cumplir con los plazos establecidos, asimismo tener en consideraci6n la
temporada de lluvias tanto en la sierra como en la selva a fin de preparar programas de ejecuci6n de
acuerdo a la realidad existente, que permita efectuar un monitoreo y seguimiento de los Cronogramas de
Actividades y plantear soluciones oportunas a los problemas que se presenten.
Se debe propiciar la investigaci6n de nuevas tecnicas en la rehabilitaci6n de caminos rurales con
la utilizaci6n de materiales diferentes, innovar, buscar menores costos de rehabilitacion.
*    Propender la participaci6n del Programa a los diferentes eventos que convocan las Instituciones
nacionales a fin intercambiar opiniones y tomar conocimientos de los avances que puedan existir en
otros sectores.
Seria favorable que la Direcci6n Ejecutiva disponga de una secretaria Tecnica, de profesionales
altamente calificados multidiciplinario, que asesore a las Gerencias y Unidades Zonales en la gestion
de preparaci6n, seguimiento, monitoreo, coordinaci6n, control, reportes de las diversas actividades y
avances delos Proyectos.
U Una alternativa que se debe analizar, es la modalidad llave en mano 6 a suma alzada, que evitaria
adicionales de obra, para lo cual es necesario un expediente impecable.
Elaborar las Normas de Disenlo de Caminos Vecinales, solo se cuentan con un Borrador de trabajo
efectuado en 1978, y que ademas no han sido aprobados.
Elaborar los Cuadros de Personal, (CAP) teniendo en consideraci6n al personal que presta servicios
continuos, y que mantiene un horario de asistencia normal, no es conveniente que se mantengan por
servicios No- personales.
Buscar mecanismos de competividad,a fm de que las empresas no se sientan dueflas de los tramos
que mantienen, y dar asimismo oportunidad a que otros pobladores accedan a frabajar para el
Programa.
Si bien es cierto el trabajo de los monitores ha sido acertado, es indudable que han podido efectuar
mejores servicios, es necesario identificar la adecuada participaci6n de los monitores que deben ser
en mayoria de ingenieria civil. Su labor esta orientada a capacitar y asesorar tecnica y
administrativamente a las micro empresas.
-74 -



La creaci6n de los monitores, ha permnitido generar cuadros de profesionales j6venes ha quienes se les
ha entrenado y capacitado pero su permanencia debe ser maximo de dos anios, para dar oportunidad a
otros egresados a esta capacitaci6n, asimismo extender esta practica en la Sede Central.
La Jntervenci6n de las Obras debe analizar con especial detenimiento, ya que han generado muchos
problemas administrativos y fmancieros con los contratistas intervenidos, generando problemas
legales, es preferible resolver el contrato y accionar inmediatamente la continuacion de la obra
contratando el saldo de obra con la empresa que ocupo el segundo lugar.
- 75 -



Additional Annex 11. Comments from Co-financier
Inter-American Development Bank. La experiencia del BID en esta operaci6n ha sido muy positiva.
Tres aumbitos merecen destacarse:
*   evaluacion delproyecto: el proyecto tuvo un disefno que se mostr6 adecuado para atender las
necesidades originalmente identificadas. Una virtud de su diseiio fue su flexibilidad, que le permiti6
adaptarse a condiciones sociales y geograficas cambiantes, a la vez que se aprendia de esas diferentes
realidades. Quiza su falla principal fue las grandes expectativas en la voluntad descentralizadora de la
administraci6n anterior que, al cambiar su enfasis, impidi6 alcanzar metas institucionales en materia
de gesti6n y financiamiento viales. Estos aspectos se estan resolviendo en el CR2.
*   desempeno del PCR: el PCR demostr6 ser una agencia ejecutora capaz, abierta a sugerencias intemas
y extemas, con una gran capacidad de aprendizaje, flexible e innovadora. Es la gran responsable de
los buenos resultados logrados. Logr6 mantener el programa funcionando bajo dificiles condiciones
presupuestarias y politicas, sin que perdiera su rumbo. Quiza su mayor carencia fue el enfasis puesto
en la expansion de las metas fisicas, por sobre las metas institucionales arriba mencionadas; en su
descargo cabe mencionar que la labor institucional realizada (trabajo con comunidades y autoridades
locales, desarrollo de MEMV, etc.) fue muy demandante.
*   desempefio del Banco Mundial: el trabajo del Banco Mundial en el Programa ha sido encomiable. La
formaci6n de un equipo de proyecto conjunto, ademis de evitar duplicacion de esfuerzos, permiti6
impulsar una politica de rehabilitaci6n de la infraestructura rural de transporte comun, evitando dar al
gobiemo sefiales contradictorias. El equipo mixto permiti6 una discusion vivaz y conceptualmente
vigorizante, resultando en muchos de los avances conceptuales del Programa. La suma de recursos de
ambas instituciones permitio realizar una serie de analisis que individualmente no podrian haber sido
considerados. La preparacion conjunta de la segunda etapas demostrativa de los beneficios logrados
de esta participaci6n, que se hizo extensiva a las oficinas locales.
- 76 -



