Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER  4733 MK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Health Sector Management Project) 
 
between 
 
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 
 
(the Borrower) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) 
 
Dated July 15, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4733 MK 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 2004, between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999). 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
“HIF” means the Heath Insurance Fund of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto; 
(c) 
“NBRM” means the National Bank of the Borrower, or any successor 
thereto; and 
(d) 
“MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower, or any successor 
thereto. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(e) 
“PAU” means a policy analysis unit established within the MOH 
pursuant Section 5.01 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“PCU” means a project coordination unit established within the MOH  
for day-to-day coordination of implementation of Project activities; 
(g) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the operational manual adopted by 
the Borrower according to Section 3.05 of this Agreement, as such operational manual 
may be amended from time to time; and 
(h) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ten million 
Dollars ($10,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan; (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) on 
account of withdrawals made for the purposes of grants under Part C. 2 of the Project in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (iii) in respect 
of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its National Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Page  4
-
3
-
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MOH and HIF with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental, pharmaceutical and health care practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about December 31, 2006, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
Page  6
-
5
-
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 1, 2007, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.04. The MOH shall maintain the PCU and PAU until completion of the 
Project with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall adopt and maintain the Project Operational 
Manual in form and content satisfactory to the Bank, and shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Project Operational Manual without a prior approval from the 
Bank. The Project Operational Manual shall cover, inter alia, the following matters: (a) 
eligibility criteria for provision of grants under Part C.2 of the Project; (b) the principles 
and procedures to be followed for the approval of grants; (c) procurement procedures to 
be followed for the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services to be financed 
by the grants under Part C.2 of the Project; (d) Project accounting procedures and internal 
control; and (e) indicators to be utilized by the PCU in monitoring the progress of the 
Project. 
Section 3.06.  The Borrower, through the MOH, shall ensure that an adequate 
financing has been provided in the Borrower’s 2005 fiscal year health budget for  the 
continuous medical education programs developed under the Health Sector Transition 
Project financed by the International Development Association. 
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the MOH and HIF, shall maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the
 Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.03 of this Agreement  the Borrower through the MOH 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual 
and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
that PAU has been established within the MOH with staff, resources and 
terms of reference sufficient to begin the Project implementation; and 
(b) 
that the Project Operational Manual referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement has been approved by the Borrower. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Dame Gruev 14 
 
1000
Skopje 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
51119 
  (389-2) 
311-7280 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Skopje, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
BORROWER 
 
By: /s/ Nikola Popovski  
Authorized Representative 
 
BANK  
 
By: /s/ Sandra Bloemenkamp 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods 
3,780,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 83% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants 
2,650,000 
100% of expenditures 
 
services, including 
 
of foreign consultants, 
 
auditing services 
 
83% of expenditures of 
 
local consulting firms, 
 
and 85% of  
 
expenditures of local 
 
individual consultants 
 
(3)       Training 
1,030,000 
 
100% 
 
(4) 
Grants under Part C.2  
2,360,000 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
 
 
(5)      Incremental operating costs 
80,000 
 
95% of expenditures 
 incurred 
through 
 
December 31, 2005; 
 
80% of expenditures 
 incurred 
through 
 
December 31, 2006; 
 
65%
of expenditures 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
incurred through 
 
December 31, 2007; 
 
and 25% of 
 
expenditures 
 
thereafter 
 
(6) 
Front-end fee 
100,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
_________
TOTAL
 10,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c) 
the term “training” means expenditures for Project related study tours, 
training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under 
goods or service providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and 
equipment rental, travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers; and 
 
(d) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means incremental operating 
costs incurred by the PCU on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, office and equipment maintenance, materials and supplies, communication, 
transportation and vehicle maintenance,  bank charges and other reasonable costs directly 
associated with implementation of Project activities, all based on an annual budget 
acceptable to the Bank. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
Page  13
-
12 -
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $20,000, may be made in 
respect of Category (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 13, 2004.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract except services of individual consultants to be 
selected on a sole source basis; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) training and incremental operating costs; 
and (e) for expenditures under grants under Part C.2 of the Project, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  14
-
13 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (i) 
upgrade the MOH’s 
and HIF’s capacity to formulate and effectively implement health policies, health 
insurance, financial management and contracting of providers; and (ii) develop and 
implement an efficient scheme of restructuring of hospital services with emphasis on 
developing day-care services and shifting to primary care. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Policy Formulation and Implementation
1. 
Development of health sector policy and strategy for: (i) overall health policy 
formulation; (ii) health management information systems development; (iii) quality 
improvement in health services provision; (iv) primary health care; (v) privatization of 
health services delivery; and (vi) streamlining of pharmaceuticals registration and generic 
substitution promotion. 
2. 
Strengthening of the MOH’s and HIF’s capacity to develop and implement 
public relations and communications activities with regard to health reforms.  
3. 
Capacity building in the MOH for budget formulation and monitoring, including 
providing guidelines to the HIF and other health institutions in budget formulation.  
Part B
:
HIF Governance and Management Strengthening
1. 
Improvement of revenue collection and of eligibility criteria for health insurance 
coverage for different categories of beneficiaries, including information technology 
upgrading.  
2. 
Strengthening of the HIF’s management capacity, including: (i) improving its 
Management Board functioning and development of oversight functions; (ii) improving 
its financial management and administration practices; (iii) management information 
systems upgrading; and (iv) general management strengthening in the HIF and its 
regional branches.  
Page  15
-
14 -
3. 
Strengthening the HIF’s purchasing functions in order to reduce costs of goods 
and services to be purchased, including: (i) design and implementation of new payment 
models and model contracts; (ii) improvement of drug needs assessment and of drug 
supply and drug use management; and (iii) improvement of drug procurement processes. 
Part C:
Service Delivery Improvement
1. 
Hospitals’ and primary health care providers’ management strengthening, 
including: (i) development of new skills and instruments required for the implementation 
of new HIF contracting schemes; and (ii) development of a basic electronic registry. 
2. 
Establishment of a grant facility to provide grants to eligible health service 
providers to support the implementation of new business plans and other activities 
designed to improve service quality and efficiency, including infrastructure of health care 
facilities. 
Part D
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening of the MOH’s and HIF’s capacity for Project management, 
monitoring and evaluation, including audit, procurement and financial management 
activities, and financing of PCU Operating Costs. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  16
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2009 
  
 
 
through November 15, 2020 
  
415,000 
 
On May 15, 2021 
  
455,000 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
16 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Goods under the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Page  18
-
17 -
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Community 
Participation
Goods, works and services required under Part C. 2 of the Project may be 
procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines; and 
(b) procedures acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the POM. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first three contracts to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part C above and the first three contracts to 
be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 2 of Part C above, 
the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; and 
(ii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  19
-
18 -
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for public information campaign under Part A.2 of the Project estimated 
to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  20
-
19 -
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Auditing services under the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; and (b) positions of a Procurement Specialist, a Financial Officer 
and three Assistant Coordinators under Part D of the Project may be selected on a sole-
source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank, and provided that 
candidates for these positions have been selected for such positions on a competitive 
basis in the past. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the first contract to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 2 of Part C above, and the first 
five contracts to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 3 
Page  21
-
20 -
of Part C above the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  22
-
21 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  23
-
22 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  24
-
23 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
