Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB412 
Project Name 
Health Sector Management Project 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P086670 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MACEDONIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Health 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 1, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 3, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
May 13, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Country Overview: 
 
 
The FYR Macedonia covers an area of 25,713 kms and has a population of 2 million. This makes 
it one of the relatively smaller countries of Europe. At the time of independence, FYR Macedonia was 
economically one of the least developed of the six republics of the SFYR and in the years immediately 
following independence, the economy contracted even more. During the period 1991-95, GDP growth 
was negative (average of –3.1 percent per year) and inflation reached 400 percent per year.  However, due 
to the efforts of successive governments, between the period 1996-2000, the economy experienced an 
average positive GDP growth rate of 2.9 percent per year and inflation declined to 2.2 percent per year.  
Fiscal deficit which was 5.5 percent during the previous period declined to 0.2 percent.  These impressive 
gains on the economic front were jeopardized by the outbreak of civil conflict in 2001. The economy is 
currently recovering and although GDP growth is positive, the fiscal deficit is still high at 5.7 percent of 
GDP. From an international perspective, poverty in FYR Macedonia is moderate with 7.5 percent of the 
population with per capita consumption below the international standard of US$2.15 per day in 2000.  
However, data on poverty, especially the non-income dimensions of poverty, is limited in FYR 
Macedonia.  For the first time since independence in 1991, FYR Macedonia faces both regional and 
domestic environments of relative political stability. The current Government is committed to 
implementing reforms to facilitate economic growth, poverty reduction and social stability. The 
government has identified the proper management of public expenditures as key to achieving these goals 
and is working closely with the World Bank in implementing public expenditure management reforms. 
Achieving cost-containment in the health sector without sacrificing the goals of quality and equal. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
 
The specific objectives of this project are: (i) to upgrade MOH and HIF capacity to formulate and 
effectively implement health policies, health insurance, financial management and contracting of 
providers; and (ii) to develop and implement an efficient scheme of restructuring of hospital services with 
emphasis on developing day-care services and shifting to primary care. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Page  2
 
 
 
The Bank has gained global and regional experience in the implementation of health reforms such 
as: introduction and management of health insurance, implementing purchaser and provider split, provider 
payments systems, privatization of health care services and quality of care. Given the Government’s 
limited borrowing capacity, the Bank’s involvement can stimulate policy and institutional changes that 
will have a long-lasting impact on improving the efficiency, quality and equity of public and private 
spending in the health sector.  Currently, a reform of the entire public administration system is under 
implementation and the Bank is supporting these reforms through adjustment lending. The previous 
adjustment credit (PSMAC) and the one currently under design (PSMAL) include important policy 
conditionalities on health reform. While other donors and trusts funds are providing technical assistance 
to support these reforms, the scope of this technical assistance (TA) is limited. Bank experience in 
implementing health reforms in the ECA region and elsewhere indicates the need for strong technical 
assistance, training and information systems development to support policy changes in the health sector. 
Without these investments, the policy changes are not likely to produce the desired benefits There is 
limited involvement of other donors in comprehensive health sector reforms in FYR Macedonia.  Only 
DFID’s Public Administration Reform (PAR) Project is providing limited technical assistance for a 
functional review of the health sector. However, this functional review is expected to generate additional 
technical assistance, training and information technology development needs. It is unclear that donor 
funds, other than Bank funds, will be available to support implementation of the functional review.  
 
4. Description 
 
Component 1: Policy Formulation and Implementation (US$1.33 million).
 This component would 
assist the MOH in implementing critical functions such as policy and strategy formulation, monitoring 
and evaluation of health reforms and public information and communication.  The component includes 
three sub-components: (i) support to overall health policy and strategy development, (ii) public relations 
and communications, and (iii) improving MOH management and business processes. 
Component 2: Strengthening HIF Governance and Management (US$4.00 million).
 This component 
aims to improve the governance and management of the HIF, as the organization responsible for 
purchasing health care services for its beneficiaries under the compulsory health insurance scheme.  The 
component includes three sub-components: (i) Eligibility criteria and revenue collection, (ii) HIF 
management, and (iii) Purchasing functions.  
Component 3: Improving Service Delivery (US$5.30 million).
 This component would improve the 
quality and efficiency of health care providers by supporting development of staff skills, introduction of 
new management methods and instruments and essential upgrades of units selected to implement well 
defined sub-projects. These improvements would enhance the management and operational capacity of 
health care providers, putting them in a better position to respond to the challenges and incentives of new 
contracting arrangements with HIF.  The component includes two sub-components: (i) Hospital 
Management and Primary Care, and (ii) the Grant Facility for Improving Service Quality and Efficiency.  
Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.95 million).
 This component 
would ensure effective administration and implementation of the project by supporting the operation of a 
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which would be responsible for all the day-to-day project 
implementation activities on behalf of the MOH and HIF.  The PCU would include project coordinators, 
assistant coordinators, a procurement officer, disbursement officer, an assistant and a translator.  The PCU 
staff would report to a Principal Coordinator and to the project Steering Committee.
Page  3
 
 
 
 
5. Financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 1.3 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
10.00 
 Total 
11.3 
 
6. Implementation 
 
 
The project would be implemented under the guidance of an already established Steering 
Committee which includes the Minister of Health, the Director of HIF and a representative of the Minister 
of Finance.  Once the Principal Coordinator is appointed, he/she would also be part of the Steering 
Committee and would report to the Steering Committee on the progress of project implementation. The 
PCU Assistant Coordinators in the MOH and the HIF would also report to the Steering Committee 
directly, and/or through the Principal Coordinator.  In addition, Project Working Groups are established 
and meet regularly to discuss ongoing issues with project implementation and policy developments in 
their respective Group. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The ultimate objective of the project is to make the health system more sustainable in the long-
run by implementing policies and programs that contribute to a cost-effective, equitable and efficient 
health care system.  The project will contribute to this goal by building the capacity of key players in the 
health system (MOH, HIF and health care providers) to effectively perform their individual roles. The 
long-term sustainability of these capacity-building efforts are to a large part contingent on factors outside 
the health system.  A critical issue is incentives for ministries to perform their appropriate functions. For 
example, there needs to be appropriate incentives for the MOH to perform its core functions of policy-
making and implementation, priority setting and regulation.  Ensuring that the HIF operates effectively in 
the long-run requires a well-performing MOH as well as accountability linkages with the MOF.  
Likewise, provider performance is contingent on the HIF effectively performing its core function of 
purchasing, regulation by MOH, as well as continued access to training and information to make the best 
decisions.  The agreement of the Government to include core health sector issues in the PSMAL is 
evidence of Government commitment to the health sector.  However, there is scope for further 
strengthening commitment at the highest levels.  Therefore, continued policy dialogue will be maintained 
with the Government throughout the project period to ensure that there is commitment at the highest 
levels of Government for sustained health reforms. This policy dialogue also will be maintained in the 
context of Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussions and analytical work such as Public 
Expenditure and Institutions Reviews (PEIR), poverty assessments and subsequent adjustment loans.  
Another critical issue is civil service reform and ensuring that MOH and HIF staff have adequate 
incentives for good performance. The ongoing civil service reforms in the country, particularly wage 
decompression, is expected to address some of the issues related to staff performance.   
 
8. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[X ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Page  4
 
 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[X ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 [ 
] 
[X 
] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[X ] 
 
9. Contact 
point 
Contact: Jan Bultman 
Title: Lead Health Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-5310 
Fax: (202) 614-0187 
Email: jbultman@worldbank.org 
 
10. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
 
