                                                                                               OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                                 R2004-0064/1

                                                                                                                 April 26, 2004




                                                                                    Streamlined Procedure
                                                                                          For meeting of
                                                                              Board: Thursday, May 13, 2004



FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary


                        FYR Macedonia: Health Sector Management Project

                                             Project Appraisal Document



         Attached is the Project Appraisal Document regarding a proposed loan to the former

Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for a Health Sector Management Project (R2004-0064). This

project will be taken up at a meeting of the Executive Directors on Thursday, May 13, 2004

under the Streamlined Procedure.




Distribution:

 Executive Directors and Alternates
 President
 Bank Group Senior Management
 Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
 Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank



                                                                              ReportNo: 27760- MK




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$lO.OO MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                       FORMERYUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                                                 FORA

                           HEALTHSECTORMANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                             APRIL 20,2004




Human Sector DevelopmentUnit
Europe and CentralAsia Region



This document hasarestricted distribution and may beusedbyrecipientonly inthe performanceo ftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                  (Exchange RateEffective April 20,2004)
                                      CurrencyUnit = MacedonianDenars
                                            1MKD = US$O.O2
                                             US$ 1 = MKD50.90


                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                         January 1  - December31

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC    Assistant Coordinator                          M&E           MonitoringandEvaluation

AIDS  AcquiredImmunodeficiencySyndrome               MDG           MillenniumDevelopmentGoal

ALOS  Average Lengthof Stay                          MIS           ManagementInformation System

CAS   CountryAssistance Strategy                     MNB           MacedonianNationalBank

CME   Centersfor ContinuousMedical Education         MOF           Ministry of Finance

CQ    Consultant Qualification                       MOH           Ministry of Health
cs    ConsultantServices                             MLSP          Ministry ofLabor and SocialPolicy
DFID  Department for IntemationalDevelopment         NS            National Shopping

DOTS   Direct ObservedTreatment, short-course        NEB           NationalEmploymentBureau

DTF    DutchTrust Fund                               NGO           Non-GovemmentOrganization

EB     EmploymentBureau                              OED           Operations EvaluationDepartment(WB)

ECA    Europe andCentralAsia                         PCU           ProjectCoordinationUnit
EU     EuropeanUnion                                 PDF           PensionandDisability Fund

FMIS   FinancialManagementInformation Systems        PHC           PrimaryHealthCare

FMR    FinancialMonitoring Report                    PIU           ProjectImplementation Unit
FOSIM  FoundationOpen SocietyInstitute ofMacedonia   POM           ProjectOperationalManual

FSU    FormerSoviet Union                            PSMAL         Public SectorManagementAdjustmentLoan
G      Goods                                         QCBS          Quality andCost BasedSelection

GDP    GrossDomesticProduct                          QER           Quality EnhancementReview

GF     Grant Facility                                RIPH          Republic InstituteofPublic Health

GPN    GeneralProcurementNotice                      SA            SpecialAccount
HI     HealthcareInstitution                         SA0           State Audit Office
HIF    HealthInsuranceFund                           SIL           SpecificInvestmentLoan
HIV    HumanImmunodeficiencyVirus                    SOE           Statementof Expenditures

HSMP   HealthSectorManagementProject                 SPIL          SocialProtectionImplementationProject
HSTP   HealthSectorTransitionProject                 sss           Single Source Selection

HTA    HealthTechnologyAssessment                    TA            TechnicalAssistance

IBRD   InternationalBank for Reconstructionand       TB            Tuberculosis
       Development
IC     Individual Consultant                         TFR           Total FertilityRate

ICB    IntemationalCompetitiveBidding                UNDP          UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgram

IMR    Infant Mortality Rate                         USAID         UnitedStates Agency for Intem. Development

I S    IntemationalShopping                          WB            World Bank
LCS    LeastCost Selection                           WHO           World HealthOrganization


                                   Vice President:        Slugeo Katsu
                                 Country Director:        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                                  Sector Manager:        AnninFidler
                               Task Team Leader:         Jan Bultman

                                                                                          FOROFFICIAL,USEONLY
                                                    FYRMACEDONIA
                                      HealthSectorManagement Project

                                                           CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                   Page

 A .  STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                              .................................................................  1
    1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                1
    2. Rationale for Bank involvement ........................................................................................                       3
    3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                  4

 B .  PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        .................................................................................................    4
    1.  Lending instrument .............................................................................................................             4

    2.  Project development objectives andkey indicators............................................................                                 5
    3. Project components .............................................................................................................              6
    4.  Lessons learnedandreflected inthe project design............................................................                                 9
    5.  Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection ..............................................................                              9

  C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  ........................................................................................................      10
    1. Partnership arrangements..................................................................................................                    10
    2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements................................................................                                11
    3.  Sustainability..................................................................................................................... 12
              . . .

    4.  Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects...............................................................                              13
    5. Loan conditions and covenants .........................................................................................                       14

  D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
    .                                         .................................................................................................      15
    1.  Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                       15
    2. Technical........................................................................................................................... 15
    3. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................         16

    4.  Social.................................................................................................................................      18
    5. Environment......................................................................................................................             19
    6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................              19

    7.  PolicyExceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                          19

  ANNEXES:
  Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background................................................................                                  21

This document hasa restricted distributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                  .
without World Bank authorization                         .

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedbythe Bank and/or other Agencies..........................                                        26
Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring..............................................................................                   29
Annex 4: DetailedProject Description .........................................................................................            35
Annex 5: Project Costs.................................................................................................................. 48
Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements......................................................................................                49
Annex 7: FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements............................................                                      53
Annex 8: Procurement ..................................................................................................................   58
Annex 9: Economic andFinancial Analysis .................................................................................                 70
Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues...............................................................................................           75
Annex 11:Project Preparation andSupervision...........................................................................                    76
Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File.....................................................................................               77
Annex 13: PSMALPolicy Matrix ................................................................................................             78
Annex 14: StatementofLoans andCredits ..................................................................................                  81
Annex 15: Country at a Glance.....................................................................................................        82


Map: 28959R1

                    FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
                       HEALTH SECTORMANAGEMENT PROJECT

Date: April 20,2004                            Team Leader: JanBultman
Country Director: OrsaliaKalantzopoulos        Sectors: Health(100%)
Sector MangerDirector: ArminH.Fidler           Themes: Health systemperformance(P)
ProjectID: PO86670                             Environmentalscreeningcategory: Not
                                               Required
Lending:Instrument: SDecificInvestmentLoan Safeguardscreening:categorv: No imDact
       "                                            "               U    u ,
                                   Project FinancingData
[XlLoan     [ ]Credit     [ ]Grant   [ ]Guarantee   [ ]Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bankfinancing (USsm.): 10.00
Proposedterms: VSL




BORROWER                                           1.34               0.00          1.34
INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR                              4.59               5.41          10.00
RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                             5.93               5.41          11.34

Borrower: FYRMacedonia

ResponsibleAgency:
MinistryofHealth
50thDivision6
91000 Skopje
FYRMacedonia




h u a l    1   0.15      2.40    4.00   I 2.45      1.00
=umulativeI   0.15  II   2.55 II 6.55   I 9.00  I110.00   I1
Projectimplementationperiod: Start September 1,2004 End: December31,2008
Expectedeffectiveness date: September 1,2004
Expectedclosingdate: June 30,2009
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PAD A.3                                                                   [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptionsfrom Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                   [ ]Yes [XINO
Havethese beenapprovedbyBankmanagement?                                      [ ]Yes [X 3 No
Is approvalfor anypolicy exception sought from the Board?                     [ ]Yes [XINO

 Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
 Ref: PAD C.5                                                                       [XIYes [ ]No

 Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
 -Ref:- PAD D.7                                                                     [XIYes [ ]No
  --   - .-- -

[Project development objective Ref: PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

 The specific objectives o f this project are: (i) upgrade MOH and HIF capacity to formulate
                                                   to
 and effectively implement health policies, health insurance, financial management and
 contracting o f providers; and (ii) develop and implement an efficient scheme o f restructuring
                                    to
 of hospital services with emphasis on developing day-care services and shiftingto primarycare.
 Project description Re$ PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4

 Component 1: Policy Formulation and Implementation (US$1.04 million). This component
 will assist the MOH inimplementing critical functions such as policy and strategy formulation,
 monitoring and evaluation o f health reforms and public information and communication. The
 component includes three sub-components: (i)support to overall health policy and strategy
 development, (ii)  public relations and communications, and (iii)     improving MOH management
 andbusiness processes.

 Component 2: Strengthening HIF Governance and Management (US$3.45 million). This
 component aims to improve the governance and management o f the HIF, as the organization
 responsible for purchasing health care services for its beneficiaries under the compulsory health
 insurance scheme. The component includes three sub-components: (i)           Eligibility criteria and
 revenue collection, (ii) management, and (iii)
                         HIF                          Purchasing functions.

 Component 3: Improving Service Delivery (US$5.58 million). This component will improve
 the quality and efficiency o f health care providers by supporting development o f staff skills,
 introduction o f new management methods and instruments and essential upgrades o f units
 selected to implement well defined sub-projects. These improvements will enhance the
 management and operational capacity of health care providers, puttingthem in a better position
 to respond to the challenges and incentives of new contracting arrangements with HIF. The
 component includes two sub-components: (i) Management and Primary Care, and (ii)
                                                  Hospital
 the GrantFacility for ImprovingService Quality andEfficiency.

 Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.27 million). This
 component will ensure effective administration and implementation o f the project by supporting
 the operation o f a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which will be responsible for all the day-to-
 day project implementation activities on behalf o f the M O H and HIF. The PCU includes six
 project coordinators, three assistant coordinators, a procurement officer, disbursement officer:
 and an administrative assistant. The PCU staff will report to a Principal Coordinator who will
 report to the project Steering Committee.
 Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
 None

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Re$ PAD C.7
Conditions of Effectiveness

   0    The Policy Analysis Unitwithin the MOH is established with staff, resources and terms
        of reference sufficient to beginproject implementation.
   0    The Project Operational Manual, acceptable to the Bank, will be adopted by the Project
        Steering Committee which consists o f the Minister o f Health, Director o f the Health
        Insurance Fundand a senior representative o fthe Ministryo fFinance.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:

Financial Covenants

   0    The Borrower, through MOH and HIF, will maintain a financial management system
        acceptable to the Bank. The project financial statements (including SOEs andthe Special
        Account) will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and on terms
        o f reference acceptable to the Bank. The project annual audited statements and audit
        reports will be provided to the Bank within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year or
        eachfiscal period.
   0    The Borrower, through MOH, shall provide adequate financing for Continuous Medical
        Education (CME) program developed under the Health Sector Transition Project
        financed by the International Development Association inthe 2005 healthbudget.


A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country andsector issues

Country Overview:

         The former Yugoslav Republic o fMacedonia (FYR Macedonia) covers an area o f 25,710
kms andhas a population o f approximately 2 million. This makes it one o f the relatively smaller
countries of Europe. At the time of independence, FYRMacedonia was economically one o f the
least developed o f the six republics o f the SFYR and in the years immediately following
independence, the economy contracted even more. Duringthe period 1991-95, GDP growth was
negative (average of-3.1 percent per year) andinflation reached400 percent per year. However,
due to the efforts o f successive governments, between the period 1996-2000, the economy
experienced an average positive GDP growth rate o f 2.9 percent per year and inflation declined
to 2.2 percent per year. Fiscal deficit which was 5.5 percent duringthe previous period declined
to 0.2 percent. These impressive gains on the economic front were jeopardized by the outbreak
o f civil conflict in2001. The economy is currently recovering and GDP growth is positive. In
2003, the deficit in the general government budget was brought down to the level o f 1.1% o f
GDP and the Government is planningto continue to keep the fiscal deficit under control. From
an international perspective, poverty in FYR Macedonia is moderate with 7.5 percent o f the
population with per capita consumption below the international standard of US$2.15 per day in
2000. However, data on poverty, especially the non-income dimensions ofpoverty, is limited in
FYR Macedonia. Currently, FYR Macedonia is in a period o f relative political stability. The
current Government is committed to implementing reforms to facilitate economic growth,
poverty reduction and social stability. The government has identified the proper managemento f
public expenditures as key to achieving these goals and is working closely with the World Bank
in implementing public expenditure management reforms. Achieving cost-containment in the
health sector without sacrificing the goals o f quality and equal access is a key element of the
Government's public expenditure management program.

Key issues in theHealth Sector:

         In 2001, life expectancy at birth was 72.2 years which is in line with the European
Region and Central European average (73.5 and 73.1 years, respectively). However, it is still
three years lower than the EU average. Infant mortality is still high (11.8 per 1000 life births)
compared with EU average (4.7) but improvements have occurred, especially in the area of
perinatal mortality. Training o f doctors and nurses in the use of evidence-based protocols and
provision o f equipment resulted in a dramatic 21 percent reduction inperinatal mortality, and a
36 percent reduction in early neonatal deaths over a 3-year period. The major causes o f
morbidity and mortality are non-communicable diseases, especially diseases of the circulatory
system. Rates o f communicable diseases such as tuberculosis (TB) are about 3 times higher than
the EU average. The Government has implemented a strong TB control program which is
bringingthis disease under control. HIV/AIDS prevalence rates are lower than the EU average,
butthis maybethe result o fmisreportingdue to weak surveillance systems.

         Public expenditureson health have been inthe range o f 5.5 - 5.6 percent of GDP in the
last three years.  This is higher than the average spending for lower middle income countries
(2.3 percent) and the average for the ECA Region (4 percent). Government spending on health
as a percentage o f total government spendingi s also high in comparison to other lower middle
income countries. Private expenditures on health accounted for 3.3 percent o f GDP in 1999.
This is high as compared with lower middle-income countries. Despite high spending levels,
quality (perceived and technical) is a problem.       Inopinion polls, the public has persistently
rated the health care system as "poor" or "very poor." Excess capacity i s not a major problem
and compared to countries of Central and Eastern Europe, FYR Macedonia has an average
number of doctors and nurses, lower hospital capacity and higher number of dentists. The
inpatient admission rate i s much lower thanthe EUaverage (8.95/100 as compared with 18.2 for
the EU), and the average lengthof stay i s slightly higher thanthe EUaverage (11.8 days versus
10.05 for the EU). However, the occupancy rate in hospitals has steadily worsened and i s
currently only 53 percent. Allocative efficiency i s a concern and a large proportion of spending
(more than 50 percent) goes to secondary and tertiary in-patient care. Low levels o f investment
in primary care have resulted in a primary care system that provides very poor quality care,
especially inrural areas. It i s no surprise that patients tend to by-pass primary care in favor o f
treatment at highly specialized health care institutions. The average number o f out-patient visits
in public health organizations per capitdper year in FYR Macedonia is only around 3 as
compared with the EUaverage o f 8.

         Health care financing is organized around a social insurance system managed by the
Health Insurance Fund (HIF). The HIF is primarily funded through payroll contributions
although this source o f revenue as a percentage o f total HIFrevenue has steadily fallen from 75
percent to 63 percent in 2001. Most o f remaining revenues come from the Pension Fund, the
Unemployment Fund and general revenues. The HIF i s responsible for the allocation o f 90
percent o f government health expenditures. A combination o f factors such as shortfalls on the
revenue side and poor expenditure management has contributed to persistent cash deficits and
the HIF has steadily accumulated debts to suppliers estimated at US$32.5 million (13 percent o f
annual expenditures) as well as accumulated debts of the HCIs estimated at over US$6.0 million.
Financialmanagement capacity withinHIFi s weak anda recent review by the State Audit Office
(SAO) showed various problems in financial management such as payments that do not match
invoices, improper write-offs, poor accounting and recording o f transactions. Provider payment
systems, especially at the hospital level are inadequate and are major cost-drivers inthe system.
The benefitspackageis generous as comparedwith available HIFrevenues andis contributingto
the problem o f implicit rationing andinformalpayments.

         Health services are delivered through a network o f public and private health care
institutions. The number o f private providers, especially inprimary care and dental practices is
steadily growing. Hospitals inthe country are public, although the process o f establishing private
hospitals has been initiated. In the medium to long-term, the government aims to completely
privatize the provision o f health care services, including some health care services in primary
health care (PHC), and the Parliament has recently passed a law enabling the privatization o f
pharmacies anddental practices. Public and private health care providers have contracts with the
HIF. The main challenges inhealth services delivery are weak capacity ofhealthproviders to
operate inthe reformed health care environment where they are expected to operate as managers



                                                  2

of health facilities, poor quality of care (outdated clinical guidelines, lack of continuity between
the different levels o fcare) andthe need to improve efficiency.

        A recently-completed functional analysis of the Ministry of Health (MOH) shows that
there is an urgent need to re-alignthe roles and functions o f the MOHtowards the core functions
o f policy formulation and implementation, priority-setting and monitoring health systems
performance and coordination. Inaddition to the core functions, there i s a needto develop M O H
capacity inbudget formulation and human resourcespolicy management. Currently, M O H staff
spend the majority of their time on routine administrative functions. This is out of sync with the
current framework for the organization, management and financing o f health services in FYR
Macedonia. Inthe context o f continuing privatizationo fhealthservices provision, there is also a
need to strengthen the regulatory framework for consumerprotection.

        Successive governments have implemented health reforms. However, many o f these
reforms have beenpiecemeal, andhave insome cases, generatednew problems. For example, a
shift to HIF dependence on payroll contributions left the health system vulnerable to shifts in
formal employment. The choice o f the German "points system" to reimburse providers proved
unworkable leading to a problem o f rapid growth inreimbursement claims. This has causedthe
HIF to revert to the old system of reimbursingagainst inputs which providedno incentives for
providers to be efficient inthe delivery o f health care services. There have also been successes
on the policy and program front. For example, the HIF has introduced a capitation-based
payment systems for primary care and the M O H has focused on improving the quality of
newborn health care services. Despite these improvements, substantial challenges remain to
reduce the fiscal risks in the health sector and improve quality and access in the health care
sector. Decentralization is an important policy priority o f the government, although so far, the
impact on the health sector is limited. The recently-passed decentralization law essentially
mandates the representation o f local authorities on the boards o f public PHC organizations and
gives localcommunities someresponsibility for health education.

        Inorder to achieve the objectives of cost-containment and improved quality and access,
the Government of FYR Macedonia has to focus strengthening the capacity o f the MOH, HIF
and health providers with the objective of improving performance and enhancing transparency
andaccountability across the various entities. The Government has identifiedpolicy reforms and
capacity-building of the HIF, M O Handproviders as keyto achieving its health sector objectives.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

        The Bank has gained global and regional experience in the implementation o f health
reforms such as: introduction and management o f health insurance, implementing purchaser and
provider split, provider payments systems, privatization of health care services and quality of
care. Giventhe Government's limitedborrowing capacity, the Bank's involvement can stimulate
policy and institutionalchanges that will have a long-lasting impact on improving the efficiency,
quality and equity o f public andprivate spending inthe health sector. Currently, a reform of the
entire public administration system is under implementation and the Bank i s supporting these
reforms through adjustment lending. The previous adjustment credit (PSMAC) and the one
currently under design (PSMAL) include important policy conditionalities on health reform.



                                                  3

While other donors and trusts hnds are providing technical assistance to support these reforms,
the scope o f this technical assistance (TA) i s limited. Bank experience in implementing health
reforms in the ECA region and elsewhere indicates the need for strong technical assistance,
training and information systems development to support policy changes in the health sector.
Without these investments, the policy changes are not likely to produce the desired benefits
There i s limited involvement of other donors in comprehensive health sector reforms in FYR
Macedonia. Only DFID's Public Administration Reform (PAR) Project is providing limited
technical assistance for a functional review o fthe health sector. However, this functional review
i s expected to generate additional technical assistance, training and information technology
development needs. The Bank can support investments for implementing the functional review
as well as, through donor coordination, stimulate donor interest in continuing support for this
area.

3. Higherlevelobjectivesto whichthe projectcontributes

        The Government's higher level objectives are economic development, poverty reduction
and the promotion of social stability and harmony. By addressing the important issue of cost-
containment while improving quality and access, the proposed project will contribute to these
higher-level objectives.

        There are three key development challenges and opportunities for the health sector, as
definedinthe Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), presented to the Board on September
9,2003 (Report R2003-0158).

    1.      Achieve sound public expenditure management, especially through an increased
            emphasison extra budgetaryinstitutions which includes the HIF;
    2.      Assure undisrupteddeliveryo fhealth services inthe context o f decentralization;
    3.      Guaranteethe quality, efficiency andaccess o fhealth services

        In accordance with the goals set by the CAS, the proposed project will support the
institutional development o f the HIF and assist the HIF in effectively implementing policy
reforms included under the PSMAL. Further, it will focus on improving the capacity of health
providers to operate effectively in the reformed health care environment and provide quality
health care. Finally, the proposed project will strengthen the capacity o f the M O H in policy-
making, regulationandmonitoringandevaluation.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

        The proposed project will be financed through a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) o f
US$10million and by Government contribution o f roughly $1.34 million. The proposed loan
will complement reforms supported by a planned series o f programmatic public sector
management adjustment loans and the associated TA financed by Dutch Trust Funds. One o f
these adjustment loans (Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan or the PSMAL) i s expected
to be approved at the same time as the proposed loan and will support important policy changes



                                                  4

in HIF contracting with hospitals and the introduction of internal changes within HIF to
strengthen financial management. The proposed loan will provide the necessary assistance,
training and goods to the HIF, with an emphasis on strengtheningthe management information
system. These investments will be critical for ensuring success o f the policy reforms supported
under PSMAL as well as support the expansion o f these reforms. The Government will finance
limited civil works, training costs, recurrent operating costs, taxes and duties. Therefore, the
total project cost should be viewed as part of the overall program to support the reform o f the
health system inFYRMacedonia. Annex 13 includes the PSMALpolicy matrix.

2. Project development objectives and key indicators

        The proposed project will buildupon the investments supported under the Health Sector
Transition Project (HSTP) which closed in2002. The HSTP supported an initial phase o f health
reforms aimed at improving cost-effectiveness, fiscal sustainability and patient choice in the
health system.

        The specific objectives of this project are: (i) upgrade M O H and HIF capacity to
                                                        to
formulate and effectively implement healthpolicies, health insurance, financial management and
contracting o f providers; and (ii)
                                  to develop and implement an efficient scheme o f restructuring
o fhospitalserviceswith emphasis on developing day-care services and shiftingto primary care.

        Key Indicators. The following indicators will be used to assess project performance.
These include quantitative indicators (i.e. measurable improvements and outputs) as well as
qualitative assessments. The achievement o f each project performance indicator will be assessed
against baseline indicators. These indicators will be regularly monitored and tracked under an
Information Systemwhich will be set up as part o f the Policy Analysis Unit in the MOH to be
established as a conditiono fProject Effectiveness.

(i)Decrease    by 15 % average lengtho fstayinall hospitals.

(ii)Increaseout-patientsurgeryby20%oftotalsurgeriesforindications,selectedby
      December 2006.

(iii)Decreaseby30%thenumberofre-admissionsforthesameconditionwithina3months
      timeperiod.

(iv) Increasethe amount ofcollected contributions by 5%, as well as the numbero f contributors.

(v) Reduction in administrative costs and personnel input for the issuance of the health
      insurance cards (bluecoupons).

(vi) Reduction in the number of drugs purchased in non-HIF contracted pharmacies and
      reimbursedbyHIF.

(vii) Reductioninthe number ofreferrals to out-patient specialist andto hospitals by 10 %.




                                                5

(viii)Decline inout-of-pocket payments for health care and drugs among groups eligible for HIF
      co-payment waivers.

(ix) 15 guidelines developed, according to international standards, anddistributed.

(x)    30% o f contracted health care providers complying with newly developed clinical
       guidelines.

(xi) Yearly HIFaudits acceptable.

(xii) Average lengtho f drugsregistrationprocess, for all drugs, decreasedby25%.

(xiii) All practicing doctors, dentists and pharmacists licensed in accordance with the new
      procedure.

3. Projectcomponents

         The project consists o f four components:

COMPONENT1:PolicyFormulationandImplementation(US$1.04 million)

         This component will support the first-phase implementation o f the hnctional review o f
the MOH. The functional review identifiedthe need for the MOHto shift from its current day-to
day administrative functions to that of priority-setting, policy making, monitoring and
evaluation. The key project inputs include international and local technical assistance, training
for M O H staff, workshops and policy forums, and information technology (hardware and
software).

         Sub-component I:Support to overall Health Policy and Strategy Development. This sub-
component will help the MOH to formalize its vision for health sector development and outline
the framework for the development of thematic national policy papers. Currently, some o f the
major areas for which national policies need to be developed and/or refined include: (i)    Health
management information systems development, (ii)         Quality improvement in health services
provision, (iii)Primary health care, (iv) Privatization o f health service delivery, and (v)
Pharmaceuticals. An essential part o f this sub-component i s to provide support in addressing a
fundamental gap in the policy formulation process, i.e., the availability and use o f policy-
relevant information. This sub-component will help the MOH to strengthen the capacity to
identify information needs for policy development. This sub-component will also help the
Institute of Public Health build upon its current capacities in information gathering by training
staff in how to produce policy-relevant information. Evaluation o f health reforms and feeding
this into the policy formulation process is one critical aspect. The Policy Analysis Unit (PAU) in
the MOHwill coordinate the processo fhealthpolicy formulation. The InstituteofPublic Health
will be responsible for providing policy-relevant information to support this process o f policy
formulation.

         Sub-component 2: Public Relations and Communications. This sub-component will help
the MOH implementpublic relations and communication activities. These activities will initially


                                                 6

be clearly targeted towards the policy formulation function supported under sub-component 1.
Financingwill be provided for developing a process for stakeholder participation throughout the
policy formulation stage, implementingopinion polls among stakeholders andother activities.

        Sub-component 3: Improving MOH management and business process. This sub-
component will support the M O H to build the capacity o f MOH staff in budget formulation,
monitoring andproviding guidelines to HIFandother health institutions inbudget formulation. It
will also support capacity-building inlinkingbudgetformulation to policy issues.

COMPONENT2: StrengtheningHIPGovernanceandManagement(US$3.45 million)

        The objective o f this component is help implement positive changes invarious core HIF
functions such as revenue collection, HIF management and purchasing. Improvements in these
functions are expectedto improve fiscal discipline, transparency andthe effectiveness o f services
provided by HIF. The design o f this component is based on recently completed assessments o f
the HIF including the extemal audit of the HIF (PSMAL conditionality). The component
includes the following three sub-components:

        Sub-component 1: Eligibility Criteria and Revenue Collection. The main objective o f
this sub-component is to introduce appropriate system controls that will help the HIFto reduce
financial risk in terms o f insufficient collection o f regular contributions and the recovery o f
unpaid contributions. This sub-component will help HIF to implement data processing changes,
upgrading o f information technology and training. The HIF i s expected to introduce a system
where it uses multiple sources o f information and cross-validation in order to improve
compliance. International and local technical assistance will be provided for systems definition,
the implementation o f which will then be supported through other project inputs. It i s also
expectedthat duringthe course of the project, appropriatelegislationwill bepassedthat will help
enforce collections.

        Sub-component 2: HIF Management. This sub-component will support the strengthening
o f managementprocesses inHIF, with particular emphasis on the functioning and performance
o f the Management Board, the effectiveness o f the overall oversight framework, financial
management practices, and management information.            This sub-component will focus on
developing the skills, processes and systems that are required for effective management o f the
HIF.

        Sub-component 3: Purchasing Functions. This sub-component will improve the design
and implementation o f payment models and contracts, build staff capacity in areas relevant to
purchasing, improve the management o f drugs, and ensure better tendering processes. However,
efforts made under this sub-component to strengthen the purchasing functions will only be
effective ifhealth care providers have sufficient management capacity and autonomy to respond
appropriately. Therefore, the work planned under Component 3 in this area will provide vital
support to this sub-component.




                                                 7

COMPONENT 3: Improving ServiceDelivery (US$5.58 million)

        This component will improve the quality and efficiency o f health care providers by
supporting development o f staff skills, introduction of new management methods and
instruments and essential upgrades o f units selected to implement well defined sub-projects.
These improvements will enhance the management and operational capacity o f health care
providers, putting them in a better position to respond to the challenges and incentives of new
contracting arrangements with HIF. This component includes two sub-components:

        Sub-component 1: Hospital management and primary care. This sub-component will
support management strengthening, introducing to management teams instruments that will
allow hospitals to meet performance targets under the contracting scheme, Wher develop skills
o f primary care staff, improve coordination between primary health care and hospital providers
andimplement continuous quality improvement initiatives.

        Sub-component2: Grant Facilityfor Improving Sewice Quality and Efficiency. This sub-
component will establish a Grant Facility (GF) to act as an investment vehicle to support
improvements in quality and efficiency in the provider network-with            a primary focus on
hospitals. The GF will be established to provide support to the implementationo f business plans
and other requiredinvestmentsidentified as part of sub-component 1. The GF will include two
phases: (a) a non-competitive phase to finance several demonstration projects, and (b) a
competitive phaseto finance subprojects on a demand-drivenbasis. All hospitals andhealth care
providers will be eligible to participate inthe GF, and eligibility and adequacy o f proposals will
be based on professional criteria and evaluation process.         These will be comprehensively
described inthe Project Operational Manual (POM).

COMPONENT4: Project Management andMonitoring(US$1.27 million)

        This component will ensure effective administration andimplementationo fthe projectby
supporting the operation of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which will be responsible for all
the day-to-day project implementation activities on behalf o f the MOH and HIF. The PCU has
been established and includes six project coordinators (appointed by MOH and HIF), three
assistant coordinators (each responsible for one project component), a procurement officer, a
financial officer, and an administrative assistant. The PCU staff will report to a Principal
Coordinator who will report to the project Steering Committee. This component will finance the
salaries o f PCU staff, except those o f the Principal Coordinator and project coordinators, as well
as assistance and training for PCU staff, translation costs, project audits, as well as some office
equipment andincremental operating costs.

        This component will also ensure the highest quality of project implementation through
effective monitoring and evaluation o fproject achievements and outcomes. Duringthe course o f
the project, the PCU staff, with the assistance o f the Policy Analysis Unit, will be in charge o f
the overall monitoring and evaluation o f project activities and for evaluating the impact o f the
project duringandafter implementation.




                                                   8

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

        The project design incorporates lessons learned from the implementation o f Bank-
financed projects in FYR Macedonia and health reform projects in the ECA Region. The key
lessons learned from the HSTP inFYRMacedonia and other health projects are:

    a   Government ownership and active involvement by Government agencies and ministries
        inproject implementationiscrucialfor project successandsustainability.
    a   Timetable for implementation should be realistic and flexible, to allow political risks to
        be managed.
    a   Realistic assessment o f the environment and capacity for project implementation i s
        crucial.
    a   Despite considerable difficulties and efforts involved in providing training and
        increasing capacity of staff, investment in these areas and successful implementation
        produce very highimpacts.
    a   Commitment o fhealthproviders i s one o fthe keys to successful implementation efforts.
    a   Good policy dialogue needs to be complemented by efficient and transparent project
        coordination and implementation.
    a   Complex policy changes or investments in complex technical systems often produce
        mixed and/or modest results while they require enormous effort, usually take longer than
        plannedand require a sustained technical assistance and long-term development of local
        staff skills.
    a   Involvement o f local experts and end users in investment decisions i s crucial for the
        success of project progress as is the consensus between the professional and political
        levels involved indecision making.
    a   Public relations (PR) i s necessary to ensure buy-in o f the public for reforms and also to
        preventunrealistic expectations at this stage ofthe reform.
    a   Monitoring andevaluation i s keyto project success.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

        The design o f this project has undergone several major changes which are important to
summarize. The project began as a stand-alone operation but was subsequently merged with the
Social Protection Implementation Project (SPIL) in order to benefit from synergies across the
joint issues inboth projects. These issues include needed improvements in social contribution
and revenue collection for the extra budgetary funds, improvements in financial management,
and strengthening governance and oversight arrangements, in addition to the work on
unemployment and healthinsurance. The decision to mergethe two operations coincided with a
shift inGovernment priorities following the 2002 election. The priority for the health sector was
primarilyto addresswaste and corruption inthe HIF. Therefore, duringthe CAS discussions in
2003, it was decided to merge these operations into one smaller project, mainly to support
PSMAL, conditionalities, estimated at US$15 million. This combined project was considerably
smaller thanthe previous combined total o ftwo separateoperations (US$35 million).

        Several months following this decision, at the Project Concept review meeting, it was
decided to split the combined project into separate Health and Social Protection projects, to be


                                                 9

financed by two smaller investment loanskeepingwithin the generallimit o fU S 1 5 million with
a possibility to increase loan size o f each operation to US$10 million at the request o f
Government. The proposed contents o f the project will not change, and both projects will
collaborate over activities of joint relevance. In particular, both projects contain a component
covering governance reform in the HIF, and this component will include joint activities to
resolve problems arising fiom the health insurance coverage and "blue coupons" for             the
registeredunemployed.

        It is also important to note that a Quality Enhancement Review(QER) was carried out in
August 2003 just prior to the decision to split the projects again which highlightedthe potential
risks associated with a combined operation, as this will substantially increase the complexity o f
the project, posing obvious risks for project management and coordination. The QER report also
outlined several options for the design o fthe project, includingwhich lendinginstruments should
beemployed.

        Overall, the decision to support this proposed investment project is in line with major
Government objectives for health sector supported by the PSMALPSALs, objectives which will
not be met without an investment type operation since reforms in the health sector requires
considerable investments in information systems, training and consultant services. Inaddition,
investments in health sector delivery systems can be used to leverage rationalization and
associated efficiency gains which will otherwise be difficult to achieve. Therefore, a Bank-
financed investment project will ensure best international practice and experience in meeting
Government goals.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

        At this stage, the proposedproject includes only the financing byBank andGovernment.
However, on behalf of the Government, the Bank has been active in gauging interest o f other
foreign multilateral and bilateral donors in providing technical and financial assistance to the
Government inthe health sector. More specifically, the Bank has discussed with the donors the
possibility o f providing co-financing or parallel-financing for the project.         However, co-
financing is not anticipated because donors have been reluctant to become involved more
substantially in the health sector inFYR Macedoniabecause o f the sector's endemic corruption
and governance problems.         Complementary activities and consequent donor coordination,
however, have been discussed with several donors who have expressed interest in providing
parallel financing mainly for technical assistance. There is general agreement among all donors
that one o f the priorities in the sector is to catalyze active participation o f the MOH in policy
formulation and implementation. Strong and continued collaboration i s expected with WHO to
advance the dialogue with the government on formulating the national health strategy for the
country as well as the implementation o f a national pharmaceutical strategy (adopted in 2001)
with an action plan and other activities in the area o f pharmaceutical policies and supplies,
including effective regulation and quality assurance mechanisms in pharmaceutical sector
aligned with international standards. UNICEF and OS1 are also planning support for policy
formulationintheir areas o f specific interest such as maternal andchildhealth, HIV/AIDS.



                                                  10

        Furthermore, in cooperation with DFID, the process o f hnctional analysis o f the MOH,
will beusedfor the creation of institutionaldevelopment planfor the Ministry which will help to
build the Ministry's capacity for policy planning, analysis, monitoring and evaluation of the
performance of the health system, strengthen Ministry's cross-sectoral coordinationcapacity, as
well as capacity to manage the upcoming processes of privatization of pharmacies and dentist
practices.

        Discussions with the UNDP indicate UNDP interest injoining the effort o f strengthening
the institutional capacity o f the MOH, in particular in the light o f meeting the European
integration requirement, as well as in light o f the recent approval o f HIV/AIDS Global Fund's
financing for FYRMacedonia.

        The Bank will continue to work closely with all UNagenciesbased in Skopje to review
national policies for tacklingpoverty andachieving the MillenniumDevelopment Goals.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

        The proposed project is a second operation in the health sector in FYR Macedonia, and
therefore, project managementarrangements build on the experience and lessons learned under
the first project - HSTP. One o f the main lessons o f the first project i s the need to increase the
in-house capacity o f the M O H which remains weak.             For the most part, the project
implementation unit under the first project had a high degree of autonomy from the MOH.
Subsequently, the staff o f the MOH did not benefit from the project as they could have. During
the first project, the M O H also suffered from frequent changes o f leadership (6 Ministers in 6
years), which only exacerbated the persistent weakness of the MOH, particularly in the area of
policy formulation.

        Consequently, the design o f project implementation arrangements for the proposed
second project envisions a more integrated approach, one where technical specialists within the
MOH and HIF are part of the project management structure and are assisted by coordinators
hired on a competitive basis as consultants. The proposed arrangements place an emphasis on
strengthening of capacity within the MOH and HIF which also contribute to long-term
sustainability o f knowledge and skills in the MOH and HIF when the proposed project is
completed.

        A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established and will be responsible for all
the day-to-day project implementation activities financed by the project. The PCU includes 6
Project Coordinators, 2 o f which are appointed by M O H and 4 of which are appointed by the
HIF. These are junior and senior staff who currently work in each of the two main project
agencies, the M O H andHIF. Inaddition, the PCUincludes three Assistant Coordinators (one for
eacho f the project components), a procurement officer, a financial officer, and an administrative
assistant (hiredas consultants and financed by the Loan). The Assistant Coordinator responsible
for Component 2 on the HIF management is financed until December 31, 2004 by the Dutch
Trust Fund (DTF) which is supporting the PSMAL preparation and implementation. Once the
DTF hnds are no longer available, that coordinator will be financed by the Loan. Likewise, a
procurement officer (currently financed by the Dutch Trust Fundfor PSMAL) has beenhired as



                                                 11

part o f the PCU on a part time basis until end 2004, at which point, he will beginto work full-
time on the implementation of this project and would be financed by the Loan. The PCU staff
will report to a Principal Coordinator who will be a highlevel M O H officer, and who will work
about 20 percent o f hisher time on the project to supervise the work of the PCU, including
signingthe documents issuedbythe PCUonbehalfofthe M O Handthe HIF.

         The project will be implemented under the guidance o f an already established Steering
Committee which includes the Minister o fHealth, the Director o f HIFand a representative o f the
Minister of Finance. The Principal Coordinator will report to the Steering Committee on the
progress o f project implementation. In addition, Project Working Groups are established and
meet regularlyto discuss ongoing issues with project implementationandpolicy developments in
their respective Group.

         Specific activities and responsibilities of the PCUwill include inter alia: (i)
                                                                                      coordination
of overall project implementation activities for all components and sub-components o f the
projects as specified in the Project Operational Manual (POM); (ii) with other projects
                                                                          liaise
(PSMALand SPIL) to ensurecoordination withthe design andthe objectives ofthis project; (iii)
ensure that procurement and financial management functions are carried out in a timely and
transparent manner; (iv) regularly organize and participate in Project Working Group meetings
and report on project progress; and (v) ensure effective monitoring and evaluation of project
achievements and outcomes during the project, and manage a monitoring and evaluation budget.
Detailed responsibilities o f PCU staff and an organizational chart o f project management
arrangementsis providedinAnnex 6.

Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

         A PolicyAnalysis Unit (PAU) withinthe M O Hwill be established as aconditionofLoan
Effectiveness. The PAU is expected to perform core functions within the M O H and will be
staffed with at least three staff.    The PCU staff will receive assistance and training from
consultants hired during the project on a need-be basis. The establishment of this PAU will
ensure the necessary strengthening o f M O H capacity which is a central aim of this project.
These PAU staff will be responsible for providing overall input and guidance on health policies
and they will also monitor the impact of health reforms on the health status of the populationas
well as on the financing viability o f the health sector. These staff will also work together with
the Project Coordinators and Assistant Coordinators and to evaluate the impact of the proposed
project during the course of implementation and after it has been completed. This will entail
monitoringproject performance indicators for the duration o f the project (per agreedindicators -
Annex 3), establishing aplanfor M&E activities o fthe MOH, and agreeing with the Bank on the
evaluation studies to be conductedprior to the completion o fthe project.

3. Sustainability

         The ultimateobjective o f the project i s to make the health system more sustainable inthe
long-run by implementingpolicies andprograms that contribute to a cost-effective, equitable and
efficient health care system. The project will contribute to this goal by buildingthe capacity o f
key players in the health system (MOH, HIF and health care providers) to effectively perform



                                                   12

their individual roles. The long-term sustainability of these capacity-building efforts are to a
 large part contingent on factors outside the health system. A critical issue is incentives for
ministries to perform their appropriate functions. For example, there needs to be appropriate
 incentives for the M O H to perform its core functions o f policy-making and implementation,
priority setting and regulation.   Ensuring that the HIF operates effectively in the long-run
requires a well-performing MOH as well as accountability linkages with the MOF. Likewise,
provider performance is contingent on the HIF effectively performing its core function o f
purchasing, regulationbyMOH, as well as continued access to training and informationto make
the best decisions. The agreement o f the Government to include core health sector issues inthe
PSMAL is evidence of Government commitment to the health sector. However, there is scope
 for further strengthening commitment at the highest levels. Therefore, continued policy dialogue
will be maintained with the Government throughout the project period to ensure that there is
commitment at the highest levels o f Government for sustained health reforms. This policy
dialogue also will be maintained in the context o f Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
discussions and analytical work such as Public Expenditure and Institutions Reviews (PER),
poverty assessments and subsequent adjustment loans. Another critical issue i s civil service
reform and ensuring that M O H and HIF staff have adequate incentives for good performance.
The ongoing civil service reforms inthe country, particularly wage decompression, is expected
to address some o fthe issuesrelatedto staffperformance.

4. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

           Risk               Rating                  RiskMitigationMeasures      ~




 Currently, ownership in        S    A few UNagencies are keen to support policy formulation
the M O H (per findings              within the MOH and partnership among the donors on this
 o fthe functional review)           issue i s expected to generate some incentives for MOH to
 i s low and it i s not clear        change. Also, in the coming months, it i s expected that the
 to MOHstaffwhy they                 functional review will be extensively discussed in various
 should implement                    forums. Itwill also be sharedwith critical stakeholders such
 changeswithin the                   as the MOF, HIF, health providers and consumers that also
MOH. This generates                  have a keen interest in the MOH performing its policy
 substantial risk for the            formulation finction in a more systematic and effective
 investments supported               way. The lack of a systematic, sustained and consistent
 under Component 1.                  health policy has been repeatedly identified as one o f the
                                     major risks inthe health sector. Continuous monitoring and
                                     evaluation o f the appropriate implementationo f the project
                                     and o f the capacity development in M O H will be used to
                                     signal any deviations o f the agreed course and to take
                                     action.
                                S
~
Rapidturnover o f senior             The proposed project will address this risk by emphasizing
policy officials anda                the capacity-building o f senior andjunior level staff within
politically charged                  the MOH and developing a process for policy formulation
 environment will                    andimplementation involving awide range o f stakeholders.
negatively affect the                This is expected to reduce the risk o fpersonality capture.
 development o fnew
 functions inthe MOH.



                                                13

                                Rating                    RiskMitigationMeasures
  Component 1i s                   H     This risk will be addressedthrough appropriate phasing of
~



  relatively ambitious and               the national policies. Also, the MOHhas already completed
  at least five national                 work towards a national policy in some areas such as
  policy papers andan                    pharmaceuticals. Work under this component will build
  overview paper are                     upon the existing policies to support evaluation o f specific
  planned.                               areas andrefinement ofthe policy.
  Providers will not               S     This risk will be reduced by ensuring that HIF adopts a
  respond adequately to                  process of evaluation of the first-phase o f contract
  incentives for improving               implementation and incorporates the results into refiningof
                                         the contracts. The proposed project will not only improve
                                         the terms and conditions o f the contracts to generate
                                         adequate     incentives    for   efficiency   and     quality
                                         improvements, but will also support providers in meeting
                                         the requirements o f the contracts throughtraining, technical
                                         support and the grant facility program.
  Lack ofresources for            M      Providers are expected to develop business plans that will
  operation and                          have to demonstratehow recurrent costs o f investments will
  maintenance o f facilities             be met in the three-four years following the investment.
  andinvestmentassets                    Grant eligibility criteria will be adequately developed to
  supportedunderthe                      address the issue ofrecurrent costs.
  GrantFacilitybeyond


 1                                M      Explicit agreement to have funds deposited on an annual
  funds.                                 basis will bemadewith Govt.
  Risk Rating-H(HighRi :), s (SU stantial Risk), M(Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)

  5. Loan conditions and covenants

  Conditions of Effectiveness
      0    The Policy Analysis Unit within the M O H i s established with staff, resources and terms
           of reference sufficient to beginproject implementation.
      0    The Project Operational Manual, acceptable to the Bank, will be adopted by the Project
           Steering Committee which consists o f the Minister o f Health, Director o f the Health
           Insurance Fundand a senior representative ofthe Ministryo fFinance.

  Financial Covenants
      0    The Borrower, through MOH and HIF, will maintain a financial management system
           acceptable to the Bank. The project financial statements (including SOEs andthe Special
           Account) will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and on terms
           of reference acceptable to the Bank. The project annual audited statements and audit
           reports will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end o f each fiscal year or
           each fiscal period.
      0    The Borrower, through MOH, shall provide adequate financing for Continuous Medical
           Education (CME) program developed under the Health Sector Transition Project financed
          bythe InternationalDevelopment Association inthe 2005 healthbudget.



                                                    14

D. APPRAISAZ, SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses

        The detailed economic and financial analysis, including description o f the methodology,
in included in Annex 9. The economic analysis estimates the costs and the benefits of the
investments, especially as related to improving HIF revenue collection and expenditure
management. I t is estimated that the project investments will results in incremental increase in
revenue collections for HIF, from 5 percent in 2007 to 10 percent increase by 2011. The net
benefits are 6.5 billion denars by 2011 (approximately US$132 million). The Net Present Value
(NPV) of the net benefits is 5.8 billion denars (US$118.3 million) (10 percent discount rate).
This indicates that the benefits far outweigh the costs. Similarly for expenditure management, it
i s assumedthat improvedexpenditure management will result inreduced expenses for HIF. The
estimates are conservative in this case because the implementation o f some reforms, such as
enforcing drug dispensation by prescription only, i s actually supposedto increase drug costs for
HIF. Nevertheless, the results ofthe calculations show that benefits from improvedexpenditure
managementwill beginto accrue to HIFfrom 2007. The net benefits (benefits net o f costs) i s 6.2
billion denars (US$126 million). The NPV o f these net benefits is 5.6 billion denars (10 percent
discount rate) (US$114 dollars). These results indicate highreturns on project.

         There are many indirect benefits of the project which are difficult to quantify. Reducing
the length o f time each patient will remain in hospital will reduce the productivity losses
associatedwith medical care. To the extent that patients spend less time waiting for treatment or
inhospitalreceivingpost-operative treatment that they couldobtain inanambulatory setting, this
will result in a direct productivity saving. In addition, improving the management of HIF is
expected to improve staff performance and the efficiency o f operations, including reduced
wastage and fraudthrough the application o f appropriate internal control.

FiscalImpacts:

         Counterpart hnds are US1.34 million over 4.5 years. This amounts to approximately
US$300,000 for each fiscal year. Annual public spending on health care i s approximately
US$281 million (2002 levels). This means counterpart finds will take up to 0.05 percent o f
public resources for health(at 2002 levels). This is a conservative estimate since it does not take
into account any increases inpublic spending for health care (beyond adjustments for inflation).
If arefurtherincreases,thencounterpartfindsasapercentageoftotalpublicspendingwill
    there
be evenlower. The recurrent costs ofthe project are approximately US$165,000 per year (which
includes 10 percent o f total spending on goods (US$3.8 million) and additional $365,000 o f
project recurrent costs). This amounts to 0.03 percent o f annual public spendingon healthcare.

2. Technical

          The design o f the proposed project supports the Government strategy in the health
sector which aims to address the following problems: (i)      significant weaknesses in financial
management, internal control, and external accountability o f the HIF; (ii)weak revenue
collection, record-keeping and administration o f the existing health insurance system; (iii)   the



                                                15

perverse incentives arising from provision of free health insurance to all registered unemployed
which inflates the unemployment numbers, reduces the population base for contributions,
increases budget transfers for the HIF, and burdens the National Employment Bureau (NEB)
with administrative tasks ofprovidinghealthinsurance documentation for the unemployedwhich
detract from the development o f strategic employment policy and the provision of active labor
market services; (iv) excessive allocation of resources to high-cost health services inthe major
metropolitan areas compared to basic care and preventive services; (v) corruption and misuse of
public h d s in the health sector, inparticular in spending on drugs and medical supplies; (vi)
inefficiency and low quality o f services because o f excessive capacity, improper organization,
weak regulation, lack o f incentives, and lack o f skills o f providers; and (vii) highout-of-pocket
payments for healthcare, both informal payments to doctors, and payments for drugs and
supplies that are rationed in the public healthcare system when institutions are under financial
stress.

3. Fiduciary

         It has been concluded that the financial management arrangements o f the project are
acceptable to the Bank and satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
The financial management capacity is considered capable of satisfactorily recording all
transactions andbalances, supporting the preparation o fregular andreliable financial statements,
andthe project is subject to auditingarrangementsacceptableto the Bank.

         While the financial management arrangements are acceptable, the PCU should strengthen
its capacity in two areas, (a) document its accounting procedures and internal controls in the
Project Operational Manual, and (b) implementation o f an integrated computerized financial
management system. The Borrower has agreedto complete these improvements by effectiveness
date.

         A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for FYR Macedonia has been
carried out in 2003. The draft CFAA concludes that the Public Financial Management (PFM)
framework in FYR Macedonia is still evolving, and improvements are required inmany o f the
components comprising the PFM system. In addition to establishing modem financial
institutions, the country has had to develop the skills and capacities to manage its own affairs.
Given the current state o f public financial management in FYR Macedonia, the draft CFAA
assesses the global fiduciary risk to the government as substantial and the overall fiduciary risk
to Bank project funds as moderate. Therefore, the Bank will support the implementingagency in
establishing an acceptable system for transaction recording andreportingas well as improving its
internal control system. The Bank FM team will also undertake capacity building initiatives in
the areao f financial management.

         The draft Accounting and Auditing Report on the Observance o f Standards and Codes
(A&A ROSC) of June 2003 concludes that there are serious audit quality issues and absence of
an adequateprofessional auditing organization andrecommends the establishment o f a regimeto
regulate the audit profession. Accordingly, the project financial statements will be audited each
fiscal year, except for the first audit o f the project financial statements which will cover
effectiveness date to December 31,2005, by independentauditors acceptableto the Bank and in



                                                16

accordance with standards and guidelines acceptable to the Bank. The annual Financial
Statements of the HIF will also be audited each fiscal year and there will be annual special
review (perform agreed-upon-procedures) ofthe implementation and impact o fthe agreed action
plan, andreview certain key risks, intemalcontrols and financial assertions, inaccordancewith
standards acceptable to the Bank, by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The first special review
would cover the period to December 31, 2005, and subsequent review would be carried out
annually. The terms o f reference o f the special review will be agreedbetween the Bank and the
HIF at a later date. On or before mid-term review, the Bank will evaluate the need for an
independent audit (review) of HIF by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and if
necessary, such audit requirement will be included in subsequent operations. All audit financial
statements and special reviews are to be submittedwithin six months o f the end of each fiscal
year or each fiscal period.

       The proiect procurement arrangements shouldbe strengthenedinorder to ensurethat the
PCU can properly fulfill its obligations as described inparas 13 - 15 o f OP 11.OO Procurement
prior to Board presentation. In order to maintain a suitable capacity to supervise the Project
including procurement activities i s it imperative that the PCU should define a modus operandi
whereby coordination is maintainedbetweenPCUstaff, inparticular the procurement officer and
the technical coordinators.     The PCU should now institute a suitable filing system for
maintainingproject and procurement records, details o fwhich will be described inthe POM, and
take over responsibilities for procurement planning and monitoring from those PCU staff
responsible for project preparation who will not remainwithinthe PCU.

       A Country Procurement Review (CPAR) for FYR Macedonia was carried out early in
2002. The CPAR concludes that although certain progress has been made through the issue and
amendment o f a Law o f Public Procurement (1998, 2002), due to the lack of implementing
regulations there is common misapplication of the provisions o f this Law which leads to dubious
practices and results in excessive political interference in contract award decisions in FYR
Macedonia. This has had an effect on Bank financed procurement where some PIU directors
(and procurement staff) were unable to act effectively or make timely decisions due to political
constraints. The CPAR concludes that FYRMacedonia shouldbe rated as a highrisk country in
respect o f the public procurement system. A new Law o f Public Procurement i s currently inthe
very final stages ofpreparation andshouldbe enactedbythe endo fMarch 2004.

       Dueto the overall weak capacity as indicatedbythe findings ofthe procurement capacity
assessment carried out for the project it i s necessary to set a frequent interval for procurement
supervision, particularly for contracts subject to post review. Notwithstanding the above, as
procurement under Bank-Financed projects has to date proved to be satisfactory, it has been
decided to set higher thresholds for Prior Review in order to build the existing capacity for
managing procurement. The PCU staff includes a procurement officer that has already received
training in international procurement and who currently works in the MOF to support PSMAL
implementation. An action planhas been agreed to further strengthen the procurement capacity
in the PCU by providing additional training, particularly in the area of IT. It has been
recommended that the procurement officer attends specialized training at ILO Turin for IT
Procurement.




                                                17

4. Social

        The FYR Macedonia nation building and social transformation project after 1991have
been slow, incomplete, and uncertain. In addition to its internal ethnic strife and turbulent
regional environment,    C O U ~ ~ T ~ ' S
                                        core industrial capacity have been drastically reduced, the
unemployment has surgedupto 40% insome regions; salaries andwages havebecome very low,
and the poverty prevailed inrural areas and some regions. The taxation basis of public finance
has plummeted, which directly impacted all public programs, health sector inparticular. Within
such a context, the proposed healthreformrepresent a breakwith the past, andtries to establish a
new and sustainablehealth system.

        Dueto time andbudgetconstraints, the RapidSocialAssessment(RSA) was preparedfor
this project, which focused on few major issues, such as the information flow, stakeholder
participation, corruption, and support to vulnerable groups.

        First, it appears that one o f the important tasks of the RSA was to inform important
stakeholders about the project objectives and to ask them to express their voices and participate
inproject implementation. For many consulted, this was a first instance to bring accurate and
reliable informationabout the healthreform andto ask for their feedback.

        Second, the RSA interviews have revealedthat the M O H should be a key driving force of
the healthreform and the project preparatory work. Beyond its management core, only a limited
number of actors is informedabout the reform, its objectives, anddynamics. The same refersto a
needed coordination and cooperation between core agencies. Our informants suggest that
particular attention should be on the information flow between major stakeholders and potential
beneficiaries (MOH, HIF, local governments, medical associations, Professional Chambers,
research community, mass media, NGO community) focused on access, accuracy, adequacy, and
timeliness o f both informal and formal information flows. This should be a two-way avenue in
order to provide the information flow from local communities, medical profession, and general
public to the health administration. Briefly, a planned PR strategy should incorporate health
reform presentations (popularly written for a general public), workshops, seminars, and round
tables. Further, although it appears that the mass mediarole i s very constrainedinproviding only
briefnews ofone or two paragraphsofmostly official releases, public announcements, andpress
conference, its role must be enhanced and designed, i.e. mass media should be seen as a core
agent in information sharing (media briefings, short materials, video-materials, TV contact
shows).

        Third, corruption and informal payments seems to be widespread, but seriously under-
researched. An action plan to curb this practice should be part o fthe health reform strategy, to be
formulated. In addition to some systemic measures (clear financial flows, auditing, new
procurement model), small scale experiments and initiatives should be encouraged and focused
on transparency of finding, on patients protection, on legal advise andhelp byNGO groups (hot
lines, temporary desks in hospitals, town-hall type meetings). And finally, a serious debate
within the medical profession, as part o f the health reform efforts, should be a driving force in
addressingthis issue.




                                                    18

         Fourth, several vulnerable groups have been identified in the 2002 national Poverty
Reduction Strategy, such as redundant workers in loss making public enterprises, unemployed,
rural elderly, Roma, IDPs, etc.             According to the RSA, although these groups should be
nominally covered by the public health insurance, many firms do not pay health contributions,
almost two-thirds of rural people are without insurance, especially women, and most Roma are
not inthe formal market and covered by insurance. Accordingly, the insurance coverage, access
to services, territorial distribution o f health services, should be carefklly studied and some
flexible and locally applicable options should be tested along the reform process and/or through
the Grant Facility implementation.

         Fifth, due to a widespread distrust regarding the Government, there is a strong request
that the monitoring and evaluation should be a core element of the project implementation. Its
periodic reports should bereviewedina participatory way andusedto improvethe healthreform
path. Periodical workshops, seminars, professional round-tables, and ad hoc working groups
should bepart o fthe monitoring and evaluationprocess.

5. Environment

         The project will not involve any hospital waste issues. Only limited remodeling inside
existing buildings will be undertaken. Contracts for the remodeling works will include
appropriate clauses for safe disposal of wastes and for minimizing noise, dust, etc. during the
construction works.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                           Yes                   No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                               [I                  [X 1
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                          [ I                 [X 1
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                              [I                   [ XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                 E l                    XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                  [ I                  [X 1
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                   [ I                  [X 1
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                   [ I                  [X 1
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                           [ I                  [X 1
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                              11                   [X 1
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                    [I                   [X 1

7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness

         Theprocurement documents for the first year of the project are expected to be completed
prior to project effectiveness. The current project unit is preparing the POM (condition of
Effectiveness) andis beingassistedby an intemationalconsultant.




* By supportingtheproposedproject, the Bank does not intendto prejudicethe final determinationof theparties'claims on the
disputed areas



                                                           19

       The readiness of the project may be partly hampered by the current weakness inproject
management arrangements as an entirely new project team has been selected and appointed
(Project and Assistant Coordinators). Also, the MOH project coordinators are quite junior and
need substantial assistance andtraining. Inpart, this training will be provided by the health team
as well as by a highly experienced project management specialist and through hand-over
arrangements which have been put in place by the outgoing PPU staff who have gained
considerable knowledge andexperience while implementingthe first health project.




                                              20

                     Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                   FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSectorManagement Project

Country andsectorissues

        The FYR Macedonia covers an area o f 25,710 km andhas a populationof approximately
2 million. This makes it one of the relatively smaller countries o f Europe. FYR Macedonia i s
situated right in the middle o f the Balkan Peninsula. Its neighbours include: Serbia and
Montenegro (north), Bulgaria (East), Albania (west) and the Republic o f Greece (south).
Approximately 60 percent of the population lives in urban areas. Since 1991, when the country
gained its independence, the population has only increasedby 5.4 percent, and the ratio of live
births has decreased from 14.6 to 13.3 live birthsper 1000population. The latest official census
shows that the majority of the population are ethnic Macedonians (64 percent), followed by
Albanians (25.2 percent), Turks(4 percent), Roma(3 percent) andVlachs (0.5 percent).

        In 2002, the GNI per capita was US$1,700 which is slightly higher than the lower
middle-income country average o f US$1,390 and lower thanthe ECA average o f US$2,160. At
the time o f its independence in 1991, FYR Macedonia was economically the least developed of
all the republics o f the SFYR and in the six years following independence, the economy
contracted even further. Between 1991-1995, there was a sharp decline in GDP and inflation
averaged 400 percent. Between 1996-2000, successive governments managed to bring the
economy under control and GDP growth averaged +2.9 percent as compared to -3.1 percent
during the previous period. Also, inflation fell to 2.2 percent during this period. The fiscal
deficit which averaged 5 percent during the 1991-95 period fell to just 0.2 percent in 1996-2000.
The gains made on the economic front were jeopardized by the break-out of ethic conflict in
2000. The economy is now recovering and GDP growth i s positive. In2003, the deficit in the
general government budget was brought down to the level of 1.1% of GDP and the Government
i s planningto continue to keep the fiscal deficit under control. FYRMacedoniacontinues to face
the challenge o f bringing the fiscal deficit under control through improved emphasis on
economic growth coupledwith expenditurecontrols.

        From an international perspective, poverty in FYR Macedonia is moderate with 7.5
percent o f the population with per capita consumption below the international standard o f
US$2.15 per day in 2000. The Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP)
states that approximately 20 percent o f the population lives below the official poverty line.
Poverty inFYRMacedonia i s most widespread inrural areas (two-thirds o f poor households are
in rural areas) and among large households with household members that are unemployed or
with low levels of education. The link between unemployment and poverty in urban areas is
high. Certain groups are at high risk of poverty. These include: the unemployed, socially
imperiledhouseholds, pensionersandfarmers.




                                                 21

                                     MAIN    HEALTH   SECTOR ISSUES

 Health Status'

         In 2001, life expectancy at birth was 72.2 years which is in line with the European
 Region and Central European average (73.5 and 73.1 years respectively). However, it is still
 three years lower than the EU average. The generally positive life expectancy figures are
 probably due to dietary and genetic factors. Women's life expectancy is four and half years
 longer than men's. Overall, the total fertility rate (TFR) is on the decline (from 2.1 in 1996 to
 1.8 per 1000 in2001).

         Infantmortality is still high (11.8 per 1000 life births) compared with EUaverage (4.7)
 but improvements have occurred, especially in the area o f perinatal mortality. Training o f
 doctors and nurses inthe use o f evidence-based protocols andprovision o f equipment resulted in
 a dramatic 21 percent reduction in perinatal mortality, and a 36 percent reduction in early
 neonatal deaths over a 3-year period. This was one o f the most successful achievements o f the
 previous World Bank funded Health Sector Transition Project.                  The reduction in IMR will
 require further health systems interventions interms o f improving prenatal care, management o f
 deliveries andnewborn care.

         Morbidity and mortality

 Inthe lastdecade, there hasbeenaslight decline instandardizedmortality rates (from 1094.3 per
  100,000 population in 1992, to 1014.5 per 100,000 in2000). These rates are inline with the CEE
 average, though 1.5 times higher than inthe EuropeanUnion.

         Table 1: Standardized mortality rates for the most important causes of death
IStandardized     mortality      rates     for      the     most       important         causes     of    death I




  Source :WHO Health for All Database 2002

         FYR Macedonia is undergoing the epidemiological transition from infectious to non-
 communicable diseases. Similar to many other European countries, diseases o f the circulatory
  system, malignant neoplasm's and digestive system diseases (40 percent o f which is liver

  'Thissection draws from the Health Care Systems inTransitions draft publication of the European Observatory on
 Health System and Policy.


                                                     22

diseases and cirrhosis) are the leading morbidity factors. Lifestyle issues like smoking and
alcohol abuse are important causal factors in this pattern o f morbidity. Rates o f communicable
diseases such as tuberculosis (TB) are about 3 times higher than the EU average. The
Government has implemented a strong TB control program, having the number o f patients with
active TB between 1997 and 2001 and the reducing the average lengtho f stay for TB patients in
both general and special hospitals by more than 20 percent. Respiratory illnesses are also a
major contributor to the burdeno fdisease.

         HIV/AIDS prevalence rates are lower thanthe EUaverage andin2003, only 16HIV and
43 AIDS cases had been registered in FYR Macedonia. Low rates may partly reflect weak
surveillance systems. The Government has adopted a National HIV/AIDS Strategy (2003-06)
and has recently received GFTAM funds to further address HIV/AIDS issues. Strong emphasis
i s neededon prevention, especially among the youth.

Financing

        Public expenditures onhealthhave been inthe range of 5.5-5.6 percent o f GDP inthe last
three years. This i s higher than the average for lower middle income countries (2.3 percent) and
the average for the ECA Region (4 percent). Government spending on health as a percentage of
total government spending is also high in comparison to other lower middle income countries.
Private expenditure on health accounted for around 3.3 percent o f GDP (1999 data) indicating a
disturbingly high level of out of pocket payments for patients, which creates inequity and
barriers o f access for the poor. The co-payment system was improved under the World Bank
hnded HSTP, but a significant proportion of user fees come from informal payments charged
unofficially by health professionals at the point o f service, or payments to finance
pharmaceuticals and supplies that may be unavailable, or payments for private care demandedin
part because o f long waits and/or poor quality in state health care institutions. Allocative
efficiency o f health spendingis a concern and a large portiono f spending (more than 50 percent)
goes to secondary and tertiary in-patient care. Low levels o f investment in primary care have
resulted in a primary health care system that provides very poor quality care, especially inrural
areas. It i s no surprise that patients tend to by-pass primary care in favor o f treatment in highly
specialized health care institutions. The average number o f out-patient visits per capitdper year
inFYRMacedonia is only around 3 as comparedwith the EUaverage of 8. Inthe last decade,
capital investments in the health sector (buildings and equipment) have been on a very low
(around 1percent o f total health expenditures). As a result, many buildings, especially inrural
areas are in bad shape and the equipment needs upgrading. Investments are neither based on a
thorough analysis o fneeds nor cost/effectiveness analysis o fthe proposed investments.

        Health care financing is organized around a social insurance system managedby the HIF.
In2000, the HIFwas separatedfrom the MOH. Itis anExtraBudgetary Fund(EBF). The HIF
i s primarily funded through payroll contributions although this source of revenue as a percentage
o f total HIF revenue has steadily fallen from 75 percent to 63 percent in 2001. Most o f the
remaining revenues come from the Pension Fund, the Unemployment Fund and general
revenues. The HIF i s responsible for the allocation o f 90 percent o f government health
expenditures. A combination o f factors such as shortfalls on the revenue side and poor
expenditure management has contributed to persistent cash deficits, and together with Health



                                                   23

Care Institutions (HICs), the HIF has steadily accumulated debts to suppliers estimated at 32.5
million (13 percent o f annual expenditures). Financialmanagementcapacity within HIFi s weak
and a recent review by the SA0 showed various problems in financial management such as
payments that do not match invoices, improper write-offs, poor accounting and recording o f
transactions. From the perspective o f good public expenditure management, Extra-Budgetary
Funds like the HIF pose problems for the effective allocation of resources and present
opportunities for fraudulent behavior where transactions are not subject to the same level o f
financial discipline and scrutiny as line ministries. Currently, the HF acts more as a payer o f
health care services rather than an active purchaser. HIF has made important progress in this
areaby developing global budgets for hospitals andprimary care capitation payment systems for
private providers. There is a need to buildupon these efforts by further refiningthese payments
mechanisms and expanding coverage among public andprivateproviders. The benefits package
i s generous as compared with available HIF revenues and i s contributing to the problem o f
implicit rationing and informal payments. Accountability o f HIF to other agencies, particularly
the M O H andMOF i s weak.

         Both the PSMAC and the Health Sector Transition Project (HSTP, closed in2002) have
provided assistanceto buildcapacity inthe HIF,but the financial management and control o f the
HIF deteriorated very visibly during the months leading to the October 2002 general elections.
There remain significant weaknesses in financial management, internal control, and external
accountability. Health information system started to be improved under the first health project,
butmuchmoreremainsto bedone.

Health Services Delivery

         Health services are delivered through a network o f public and private health care
institutions. The number o f private providers, especially in primary care and private dental
practices is steadily growing. Hospitals in the country are public, although the process of
establishing private hospitals has been initiated. In the medium to long-term, the government
aims to privatize the provision of health care services, includingspecific services under primary
health care (PHC) and the Parliament has recently passed a law enabling the privatization o f
pharmacies and dental practices. Public andprivate health careproviders have contracts with the
HIF. The main challenges inhealth service delivery are weak capacity of health providers to
operate in the reformed health care environment in which providers are expected to operate as
managers o f health facilities, poor quality o f care (outdated clinical practices, lack o f continuity
betweenthe different levels o f care) andthe needto improve efficiency.

         Compared to countries o f Central and Eastern Europe, FYR Macedonia has an average
number of doctors and nurses, lower hospital capacity and higher number o f dentists. The
inpatient admission rate i s much lower thanthe EUaverage (8.95/100 as compared with 18.2 for
the EU), and the average length o f stay is slightly higher than the EU average (11.8 days versus
10.05 for the EU). However, the occupancy rate in hospitals has steadily worsened and i s
currently only 53 percent. The number o f doctors in FYR Macedonia is lower than the EU
average. Overall, there are concerns with low productivity,                excessive referrals and
overproduction at the secondary and tertiary care levels. These problems indicate the need to
develop stronger incentives for providers for improving efficiency andproductivity.



                                                  24

        Underthe current health care management, organization and financing arrangements, the
M O H is supposed to provide policy and oversight functions. A recently-completed functional
analysis o f the MOHshows that there is an urgent need to re-alignthe roles and functions o f the
M O H towards the core functions of policy formulation and implementation, priority-setting and
monitoring health systems performance as well as coordination. The (PSMAC and HSTP) have
also aimed at developing the MOH's policy and oversight capacity, but a proposed monitoring
andevaluation unitinthe MOHwas never appropriately staffed (because o fahiringfreeze inthe
public sector), and it is not effective. As a result, there i s a lack o f information on the outcomes
of health interventions andlittle analysis available for strategic decision-making.

         Under the Ohrid Framework Agreement and the Law for Local Government, it i s
contemplated that a part o f preventive health and community health care functions should be
decentralized to municipalities, but this is yet to happen, partly because the scope o f
decentralization and operational arrangements were contentious and have not been clearly
defined, with the exception o f a provision in a new draft Health Care Law, that will give
municipalities the right to nominate two additional members to the Boards o f public healthcare
institutions in their areas. While the timetable for decentralization o f social services, including
health has slipped, the Government is now making progress on these issues and draft laws on
decentralization of health, education and other social services have completed their first reading
in Parliament. Inthe near future, decentralization of health services will be an important of
policy andprogrammatic approachesinFYRMacedonia.

SUMMARYOF SECTORISSUES:

         To summarize, the Macedonian health care system faces multiple challenges of
improving access, quality and efficiency. Some o f the underlying factors for these problems
include serious governance problems and weak institutional capacity. Accountability
mechanisms at all levels o f the system are weak. Although various laws have been developed,
these are not enforced. Overall institutional capacity in the MOH, HIF and health providers to
operate in the reformed health care environment i s very weak. The processes o f collecting,
analyzing and using information for health sector decision making is weak. This contributes to
the lack o ftransparency inthe health sector.




                                                 25

       Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                   FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSectorManagementProject

       The Bank's first health sector investment project was the Health Sector Transition
Project approved by the Bank on June 20, 1996 with a credit amount of US$16.9 million. This
project closed in March 2002. The project was intended to achieve the objectives of the 1995
FYR Macedonia CAS where the lendinginthe health sector was contingent specifically upon a
"medium-term strategy for structural reform o f the health system". The project design sought to
balance policy reforms and capacity building with investments in institutions and actors who
were not quite prepared to bear the costs and challenges o f the reform. Its objectives were to
improve the health o f population in FYR Macedonia by enhancing the quality o f basic health
service,   and by supporting an initial policy reforms to increase cost effectiveness, fiscal
sustainability and patient choice within the health system. The overall assessment o f the project
indicates that it was highly successful incertain areas such as maternal and child health and TB
control. However, on complex health sector reform issues, it was less successful. The main
achievements o fthe project on the various components are as follows:


    0   Primary healthcare (PHC) reformincreasedpatient choice through patient enrollment
        and capitation based payment to private family medicine practice. Significant progress
       was made inthis areawith adoption o f a newHealthInsurance Law followedby adoption
        of a number o f critical secondarylegislation.
    0   Continuedmedical education (CME) has been provided for primarycare practitioners.
        A CME strategy was designed, five training centers establishedandover 40 percent of all
        PHC doctors inFYRMacedonia attendedthe CME courses supportedby the Project.
    0   Maternal and Child Care. The combined result of improved knowledge and skills,
        changes in care practices, improved physical environment and availability o f state-of-art
        equipment ledto dramatic reduction inthe rate of the perinatal mortality: the number o f
        fetal and early neonatal deaths per total 1000birthshas beenreduced by over 20 percent.
        The achievements under this subcomponent were assessed as Best Practice and were
        publishedat the external website ofthe WB.
    0   Training of experts from the HIF, MOH, and other health institutions in the areas o f
        health policy, financing and management has beenprovided mainly throughparticipation
        inshort courses, workshops andstudytours.

TheHSTP received anoverall OED "satisfactory" rating.

        The Bank has continued to support the implementation o f reforms inhealth sector as a
substantial part of the efforts under the public sector adjustment program, the PSMACL,
which was initiated in 2001. The main areas o f PSMAC/L support have been the financial
management and improvement o f governance and internal control system in the HIF and its
external accountability, increasing capacity and reducing fraud and corruption in procurement
and distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, developing contracts and contract
management systems that will allow HIF to control expenditures by the health institutions and
improving delivery of health services by both public and private sectors. Implementation o f the
PSMAL reforms will require investments in M I S in the HIF and health care providers to track
expenditures andmonitor the quality and quantityo f services delivered; intensive training o fHIF


                                                 26

staffandmanagement staff inthe health institutions and considerable expert advise for achieving
the stated objectives. Given that it was only          the Dutch TF under the PSMACL, with
US$600,000, which has supported the work, the HSMP is envisioned to continue to provide
investment support to this unfinished health reform agenda and ensure the complementarity and
increase efficiency o f activities supported by the PSMAL, Dutch TF and the new health
investmentproject.

         Interms ofcomplementarity withother relatedHDprojects inFYRMacedoniathere are
two investment operations recently initiated and with potential linkages and mutual reinforcing
objectives with the HSDP.

         Community Development Project (CDP) is a Credit of US$5 million which was
approved on May 30,2002. The main development objective o fthis project i s to provide support
to the Government o f FYRMacedonia inits post-conflict development efforts aimed at reducing
poverty, restoring normalcy in former areas o f conflict, fostering social cohesion amongst its
people and helpingbuildinglocal social capital. To attain this objective, the focus o f the project
is on piloting small-scale community based initiatives in selected demonstration communities
under an integrated development framework designed to respond to priority social needs and
facilitate the transition from conflict to peace.

         One of the major sector issues to be addressed by the CDP is the strengthening o f
capacity for service delivery at the local level, includingimproving service delivery inthe health
sector. The second sub-component aimed to establish a Grant Facility for improving quality and
efficiency. The proposed project (particularly Component 3 which includes a Grant Facility) can
build on the CDP experiences related to the balanced regional resource allocation o f the funds
and establishing criteria for identification of the geographical andproblem areas which the CDP
is supporting through its micro-projects.

         Education Modernization Project (EMP) is a Loan o f US$5 million with a Dutch
Grant US$11.40 million and Government contribution US$2.90 million was approved on
December 16, 2003. The main development objectives o f the project are: (1) Improve quality o f
learning and participation at the targeted schools by strengthening school level planning and
management; and (2) Improved equity and efficiency for a decentralized education system. The
EMP aims at meeting some major challenges o f the education sector inFYR Macedonia which
include improving quality, increasing participation,         helping education decentralization,
increasing governance capacities at all levels including school improvement, strategic and
financial planning, information management and policymaking, monitoring and assessment o f
education outcomes through setting up new procedures andstructures andthroughtraining.

         The EMP and the proposedHSMP both support one o f main goals set by the CAS which
i s building human capital. The long term objectives of both projects are ultimately aimed at
preventingofthe breakdowninthe delivery o fthese key social services, and continued focus on
improving o f their quality and access. Inboth projects, investmentswill be piloted through new
financing arrangements- Grant facility for hospitals inthe HSMP and the school improvement
grants inthe EMP.




                                                   27

   OEDperformance ratingsfor Bankfinanced HDprojects completed in thelastfiveyears

    I Project I OED Title                    I Date     I Outcome     I Sustainability IDImpact
                                                                                        1            I

    Po58056 PensionReform TA                   1/28/03    H S           likely            Substantial
     PO38392 SocialSectorAdjust.               2/27/01    S              likely           Substantial
                 Credit
     PO38391 EducationRehabCredit 2/05/02                 MU            non-evaluable    Modest
     PO38092 Social ReformTA                   6/06/00    S              likely           Substantial
    PO36089    I HealthSectorTransition I      9/30/03  I S            I likely         I Modest     I
    Note: H S (Highly Satisfactory); S (Satisfactory); MU(Moderately Unsatisfactory)

        Despite the fact that there has been relatively little donor support for the health sector in
FYRMacedonia, considerablehumanitarianassistancewas extendedto FYRMacedonia during
the early transition years and following the Kosovo crisis. Humanitarian assistance, however, is
no longer available. One o f the few agencies willing to further support particular aspects o f
health sector reform has beenthe WHO. Ithas provided continued support to the Government in
developing Nationaldrugpolicy and strategy andits implementation particularlythrough helping
the establishment o f an independent Drug Regulatory Authority and harmonization o f the
legalh-egulatory framework with the EU directives. WHO has acceptedto assist Government's
efforts on the formulation of the national health policy and health strategy. Inthe light o f the
implementation o f the Law on Local Government (2002) and in conjunction with other donors
such as UNDP, USAID, Foundation Open Society Institute o f Macedonia (FOSIM), the WHO
has been supporting the process o f decentralization o f health care with focus on the community
needs in the area o f communicable diseases control and environmental health, promotion o f
health and healthy lifestyles and provision o f services for specific vulnerable and marginalized
groups o fpopulationanddecentralized provisiono fmental health services.

        Since 2001, FOSIM has initiated a new public health program aimed at promoting the
improvement o f health status o f population and workforce development.             Their approach
includes efforts directed to standardization o f the quality o f health care by modernizing
undergraduate and postgraduate PH curriculum and strengthening the capacities o f the
professional associations as well as enhancing the capacities o f existing PH institutions. The
program identifies and provides the development o f individuals and institutions that can play
leadership roles inpromotingpublic health policies andprograms.




                                                     28

                            Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                    FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSector Management Project

           PDO                             OutcomeIndicators'                     Use of Outcome
                                                                                    Information
To upgrade MOHandHIF Increasethe amount o fcollected                       Usedbyprime minister's
capacity to formulate and      contributions by 5%, as well as the number  office to evaluate
effectively implement          o f contributors.                           performance o fthe MOHand
healthpolicies, health                                                     HIFonimprovingcore
insurance, financial           Reductioninadministrative costs and         functions; andused byHIF
management and                 personnel input for the issuanceo f the     Boardto evaluate
contracting o fproviders.      healthinsurance cards (blue coupons).       performance o f HE.

                               Reductioninthe number of drugs
                               purchasedinnon-HF contracted
                               pharmacies andreimbursedby HIF.

                               Declineinout-of-pocket payments for
                               health care and drugs among groups
                               eligible for HIF co-payment waivers.

                                15 guidelines developed, according to
                               internationalstandards, and distributed.

                               Yearly HIFaudits acceptable.

                               Average lengtho f drugsregistration
                               process, for all drugs, decreasedby 25%.

                               All practicingdoctors, dentists and
                               pharmacists licensedinaccordance with
                               the newprocedure.
To develop and implement       Decreaseby 15% ALOS inallhospitals.         Usedby MOHand HIFto
an efficient scheme o f                                                    evaluate the impact o f
restructuring o fhospital      Increase out-patient surgery by 20% o f     restructuring reforms onthe
services with emphasis on      total surgeries for indications, selectedby health services delivery
developing day-care            December 2006.                              system.
services and shiftingto
primary care.                  Decreaseby 30% the number o fre-
                               admissions for same condition within a 3
                               months time period.

                               Reductioninthe number o freferrals to out-
                               patient specialist and to hospitals by 10%.

                               30% o fcontracted healthcare providers
                               complying withnewly developedclinical
                               guidelines.


 Increases or decreases are measured against baseline data.


                                                       29

      IntermediateResults           ResultsIndicatorsfor Each            Use of ResultsMonitoring
             One per                Component/subcomponent
   Componentlsubcomponent
 ComponentOne:                 Component One:                           ComponentOne:
 SubcomponentOne:              Subcomponent One:                        SubcomponentOne:
 ImprovedMOHcapacity in        MediumtermMOHhealthsector                Usedby MOHand other
 policy formulation and        strategy developed and approved. The     external agencies to evaluate
 implementation                strategy should specify MOHpolicies      progress on developing
                               on: privatizationo fhealthcare           policy formulation function.
                               services, pharmaceutical regulation,
                               licensing o fprimary health care
                               oroviders.
 SubcomponentTwo               Subcomponent Two                         SubcomponentTwo
 ImprovedMOHcapacity in        Public information strategy for health   Usedby MOHto evaluate
 public information and        reforms developed and appliedto          progress o f the M O H on
 communication                 health sector policy development in      public information and
                               privatization o fhealthcare services,    communication o fhealth
I                              and pharmaceutical regulation.           reforms.
 SubcomponentThree             SubcomponentThree                        Subcomponent Three
 Strengthened budget           Public ExpenditureTracking survey        Usedbydonors and the
 formulation, monitoring and   (PETS) of fundingfor priority public     government to evaluate MOH
 management                    health services completed(baseline       performance.
                               and one follow-up).

                               HIFprovidedguidelines onbudget
                               development.
 ComponentTwo:                 ComponentTwo:                            ComponentTwo:
 SubcomponentOne               subcomponentOne                          SubcomponentOne
 EnhancedHIFcapacity in        Action plan for improvingrevenue         Usedby HIFBoardto
 revenue collection            collectionbased on external audit o f    revenue collection
                               HIFimplemented.                          performance and initiate
                                                                        further improvements.
 SubcomponentTwo               SubcomponentTwo                          SubcomponentTwo
 Strengthened HIFmanagement    HIFBoardstructure andoperation           Usedby MOF and HIFBoard
                               revised                                  to evaluate financial
                               Intemal audit unit functional.           management performance of
                                                                        HIF.
 SubcomponentThree:            SubcomponentThree                        SubcomponentThree
 EnhancingHIFcapacity in       Hospital contracts revised on the basis UsedbyHIFto evaluate
 purchasing                    o f evaluationstudy o f first-phased o f strengthened HIFcapacity in
                               hospital contract implementation.        purchasing.
 ComponentThree:               ComponentThree:                          ComponentThree:
 SubcomponentOne               SubcomponentOne                          SubcomponentOne
 Improvedprovider capacity to  At least 75 percent ofcontracted         Usedby MOH and HIFto
 implement contracts with HIF. primary health care providers and        monitor the proper
                               hospitals are correctly collecting and   implementation of contracts
                               analyzing data for contract              as well as o f quality and
                               compliance.                              implementation of training
                                                                        programs for health
                                                                        providers.



                                                30

SubcomponentTwo:               ISubcomponentTwo:                      ISubcomponentTwo:
Improvedcapacity among          Business plans for improving quality   Usedby MOHto evaluate
hospitals to implement          and efficiency developed and           performance under non-
organizational changes that     implemented inat least 20 percent o f  competitive grants program
support quality and efficiency  all hospitals.
ComponentFour:                  ComponentFour:                         ComponentFour:
Project Coordination Unithelps  Projectdeliverables are implemented    Projectmanagement reports
to effectively implement the    and evaluated inan efficient manner    guide project implementation
Project, monitors and evaluates and on a timelybasis.                  process.
implementation and outputs,
outcomes.




                                                31

I

m
m

e
ECf
cI
c
zC
:
9
i

c
i             .B g -3
                a




        z
        .3
        tl
        2




ci
8  2
   *
E

                               Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                    FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSector Management Project

COMPONENT 1: Policy Development and Strengthening Implementation (US$1.04
million)

          The objective o f this component i s to assist the M O H inimplementing critical functions
such as policy formulation, evaluation o f health reforms and public information and
communication. These functions have been identified by the recently completed functional
review as critical for helpingthe M O H operate inthe reformed health care environment. Inthis
environment, the M O Hneeds to focus on policy formulation, priority setting andmonitoring and
evaluation rather than focusing on too many day-to-day health sector administrative issues. The
component will support the first-phase implementation o f the functional review. A strong MOH
i s critical for improving the overall accountability framework for the healthsector, and especially
inthe medium-term, for improving the accountability of HIF. The key project inputs include:
international and localtechnical assistance, training and informationsystems development.

Sub-component 1.1:Supportto overall Health Policy and StrategyDevelopment

          This sub-component aims to help the M O H implement the core function of policy
formulation and priority-setting, One o f the critical elements inthis area i s the emphasis on the
MOH developing appropriate processes for discussion and finalization of policies. Wide and
intensive stakeholder involvement and participation is key to the development o f appropriate
policies. Therefore, in developing policies, the M O H is expected to coordinate and collaborate
with a wide rangeofpublic andprivate institutions, namely, the HIF, as well as inseveralhealth
sector institutions that have been delegated important stewardship functions, like the Chambers
for doctors, dentists and pharmacists and the Medical Association. This capacity will then be
used for providing policy information on the health sector (health status, health services delivery,
finance etc.) and for the development o f a more comprehensive medium and long term health
strategy. Preparation of such a strategy requires the availability o f reliable data, analysis and
policy formulation capacity, all currently not available. It requires also a participatoryprocess,
involving the major stakeholders and reaching agreement as much as possible. This sub-
component will get the process started and will include several building blocks for a
comprehensive strategy, as referred to insub-component 1.2. Concrete activities will include an
in-depthanalysis of the health sector and its sub-sectors (based on existing documents, original
surveys and data collection by the health policy unit), the formulation o f the policy process as
well as providing support for the actual development o f a realistic strategy paper and the
accompanying implementation plan. This sub-component will provide for the establishment o f
an effective Policy Analysis Unit inMOH, capable o f analyzing information about health status
and provision of health services, evaluating current and future health policies and providing
M O H and health authorities with relevant information for policy making. This sub-component
will finance office equipment, training, international and local consultant services, and
publication and dissemination o f guidelines, strategies and regulations. The international
consultant services will advise on the policy process, participate in the analysis and the
preparation ofpolicy advice as well as inthe production of a draft strategy paper.




                                                  35

        This sub-component will also provide assistance indeveloping the following strategies in
specific areas.

A. Health Management Information Systems (HMIS) development strategy. The key to
successful implementation o f IT is a strong and universally accepted strategy. This specific
strategy will be prepared as based on:

    (a)     a thorough analysis o f actual and fbture information needs of health services
            providers, the HIF, the MOH, agencies inthe health care sector (like the Institute for
            public health andthe drugs bureau, the licensing/accreditationbodies etc.);
    (b)     the guiding principle that Information Systems are designed to be tools and their
            development must be driven by the Business Processes o f the future users and not by
            the IT Specialists who will manage them;
    (c)     an inventory/analysis o f existing information systems and actual human resource
            capacity for handlingthe information systems including needs that have already been
            identified for their development and initiatives that have beenundertaken; and
    (d)     anassessmento fimplementationcapacity as regards humanand financial resources.

        This strategy will serve as a building block and will provide guidance for the more
detailed plans (including investments inhardware, software and HR) for strengthening HMIS in
the HIF, MOH, providers and agencies. Local and international consultant services will be
provided.

B.     Ouality improvement strategy in health services provision. This strategy will aim at a
balanced approach to creating internal (i.e. inside health institutions) and external (i.e. in the
licensing bodies and HIF) quality improvement and assessment capability, indicating the role o f
professional organizations and professionals in quality improvement as well as to increase
transparency in the functioning o f the health care system. Sub-level strategies will be provided
to further the development o f the licensing policy for doctors, dentists and pharmacists and to
implementation o f the licensing procedures, andto improve continuous medical education. Next
to this, evidence based medicine and the development and use o f clinical practice guidelines
(based on internal scientific evidence) will be fostered. To this extent, a focal point will be
established at the Macedonian Medical Association for the development o f evidence based
medicine and modern clinical practice guidelines. This strategy development will also review
the fbrther options for external assessment, such as accreditation, and for improving patient risk
management. International and local technical assistance will be provided.

C.     Primarv health care strategy. This strategy will include the development o f a policy and
implementation plan for primary care, dealing with the current division of PHC over 6 different
categories o f doctors, the lack o f adequate training (incl. CME), the differences between private
and public providers and the cooperatiodcoordination o f PHC and secondary and tertiary care
levels.

D.     Privatization o f Health Services Delivery strategy. Based on the evaluation o f the current
focus onprivatizing pharmacies and dentistry, this activity will aim on a systematic review o f the
ownership status o f health service providers, assess potential alternatives like autonomization



                                                  36

and privatization, and will be providing guidance on the careful implementation of a
privatization strategy.   International and local technical assistance as well as training are
foreseen.

E.     Pharmaceutical strategy. The aims o f further developing a pharmaceutical strategy are
two-fold: streamlining and improving the transparency o f the legal framework for drug
registration; and pursuing regulatory changes that allow for generic substitution and promote
generic dispensingbypharmacists.

        a.     Legal framework for drug registration: This activity will aim at reviewing and
       proposing amendments which will streamline and make the drug registration process
        more transparent. Inaddition, the review should address how the current legislation can
       be made more compatible with the o f the European Union. Both international and local
        technical assistance is envisaged for this activity.
       b.      Generic substitution: This activity will aim initially at the development and
        implementation o f regulations that will allow pharmacists to engage in generic
        substitution. In addition, a strategy will be developed to promote generic substitution
        compatible with pharmaceutical payment models being developed in Component 2 to
        strengthen the purchasing function o f the HIF. Technical assistance and subsequent
        training for pharmacists ingeneric substitution are foreseenfor this activity.
Sub-component 1.2: Public relations and communications

This sub-component will aim to build capacity in MOWHIF for effectively communicating
health reform plans, their consequences and their implementation to the general public and the
stakeholders. This sub-component will also support the actual public information and the
implementation o f the adopted strategy. The sub-component will finance local and international
consultant services andtraining.

Sub-component 1.3: Improving MOH management and businessprocess.

This sub-component will support the M O H to build the capacity o f MOH staff in budget
formulation, monitoring and providing guidelines to HIF and other health institutions inbudget
formulation. It will also support capacity-building inlinkingbudget formulation to policy issues.
This sub-component will finance local and international consultant services andtraining.

        InstitutionalArrangements: The Policy Analysis Unit (PAU) will consist of at least
three staff. The Head o f the Unit should be a high-level official in the MOH. The head o f the
PAU will report directly to the Minister of Health and one o f hisher principal responsibilities
will be to lead and coordinate the health policy formulation process in coordination with the
various departments o f the MOH. The other morejunior staffwill directly report to the Head o f
the Unit and take responsibility for defining the data needs for regular reporting on health
reforms, commissioning health sector reform evaluations as well as public opinion polls. One o f
the two junior staff should have a strong interdisciplinary background in public health, health
systems management, health economics. This broad background will be supplemented by
training on health policy which will be financed through the loan. The other junior staff should
also have a similar background but with an interest inpublic information and communications.



                                                 37

This staff will manage the public relations of the unit and will be trained inpublic information
andcommunication. Thisperson shoulddevelop the skills to identifypublic informationneedsin
the health policy formulation process as well as manage coordination with a wide range of
stakeholders in policy formulation and implementation. This person, as with the others in the
unit, will be expected to coordinate with other departmentsof the MOH. The PAUwill depend
on data, studies and information provided by the Institute o f Public Health. Although the
Institute o f Public Health has staff with relevant background in public health, health
administration and social medicine, the staff do not have specific skills in monitoring and
evaluation o f health reforms. The loan will support staff within the Social Medicine unit o f the
Institute o f Public Health to build these skills. This group will be expected to provide
informationto the PAU.

COMPONENT 2: StrengtheningHIFGovernanceandManagement(US$3.45 million)

        This component will improve the governance and management o f the HIF, as the
organization responsible for purchasing health care services for its beneficiaries under the
compulsory health insurance scheme.

        There is widespread recognitionthat the HIFhas beenperformingpoorly to date andthat
its operations are lacking in transparency and accountability. Poor practices in financial
management,procurement andpurchasing ofhealthservices, highstaff turnover and insufficient
attention to human resources, combined with weak oversight arrangements, have resulted in a
poorly performing organization, which is also considered by the Government to be a significant
fiduciary risk.  Thus, any efforts to improve the performance o f the health system in FYR
Macedonia as a whole must include initiatives to improve the hctioning o f the HIFandprovide
better value for money under the compulsory health insurance scheme. The investments
supported in this component are closely aligned to the HIF conditionalities included under the
PSMAL (namely, the establishment of an internal audit unit and the implementationof hospital
contracts). The component will support international and local technical assistance, health
information systems upgrading inthe form o f hardware and software and training. Without the
development of these systems and processes, any investments in hardware are likely to go
unusedandwasted.

Sub-component 2.1: Eligibility Criteriaand Revenue Collection

        The main aim of this sub-component will be to improve revenue collection and improve
the criteria usedto determine eligibility for health insurance coverage for different categories of
beneficiary.   Activities will seek to expand coverage and improve compliance through
addressingsystemic weakness inrevenue collectionandbuildingcapacity inthe HIF.

        Several initiatives are already planned inthis area under the PSMAL program, which this
project supports. A short internal training course for HIFstaff on controlling revenue i s planned,
and a consultant has been hired to provide technical assistance on social protection program
administration, including an analysis for options for improving health insurance contributions
collection and administration with respect to registered unemployed. And an additional study is




                                                 38

planned to help clearly define different categories of beneficiaries and the criteria for eligibility,
and support the harmonization o fthese across different social insurance programs.

        Besides these PSMAL initiated activities, the planned activities under this component are
expectedto further strengthenthe HIFcapacity for revenue collectionthrough:


    0   Improvedprocesses for control o f employers andthe public sector contributions;

    0   Stronger enforcement o f contributions payments, through legislative changes and
        training;
    0   Definition o f government policies on excluded categories, such as employees ofbankrupt
        companies and dependents of dependents, and processes to ensure that government
        obligations are clearly defined andmet; and
    0   Harmonization of contributor categories across social insurance programs through
        improveddefinitiono fbeneficiaries, communication and data sharing.

        A key element of investments supported under this sub-component include the
implementation o f changes in data processes, upgrading o f information technology, passage o f
appropriate laws that support improved compliance as well as training for HIF staff.
International and local technical assistance will be provided to HIF to develop a system for
improvingrevenue collection that incorporates the four-eyes principle. This essentially means
that there are opportunities for cross-checksto enforce compliance.

Sub-component2.2: HIF Management

        This sub-component will support the strengthening of management processes in HIF,
with particular emphasis on the functioning and performance o f the Management Board, the
effectiveness o f the overall oversight framework, financial management practices, and
management information.       It will aim to develop the skills, processes and systems that are
requiredfor effective managementofthe HIF.

Board and oversightfunctions

        One o f the weaknesses in HIF management i s that there is no effective oversight
framework in place.      The Management Board has not established effective and independent
oversight o f HIF operations, and there i s no proper internal audit process established to provide
independentadvice to managementon internalcontrols.

        This component will support the strengthening o f the Management Board of the HIF,
improving its ability to oversee the achievement of the organization's objectives, the proper use
of resources, and effective representation o f stakeholders (insurees in particular). Work will
include:


    0   Development o f alternatives for nominationand selection o f BoardMembers;
    0   Establishment o fperformance criteria and evaluation processes for members; and

    0   Introductiono f secrecy standards.




                                                 39

        Technical assistance will be provided to the HIF to support this work during the early
stages o fthe project.

        Assistance to the HIF to properly establish the internal audit unit, according to MOF
guidelines, and support for strengthening the SAO, will be at least partially provided under
PSMAL. Developing the capacity o f the M O H to oversee the HIF is a priority, and will be
supported under Component 1. Close links will need to be established with these activities, to
ensure that the various aspects o f the oversight framework are coordinated and functioning well
as a system.

Financial Management and Administration

        Financial management in the HIF is weak due to various factors, including insufficient
skills andtraining; inappropriate accounting standards; poorly designedplanning andmonitoring
processes; andpoor data availability.

        Activities under this sub-component will improve financial management practices inthe
HIF, concentrating on establishing a solid foundation as a basis for ongoing progress towards
international standards. Priority outputs will include:


     0  Development o fimprovedprocesses for budget planningand execution;
     0  Training inmodern financial managementtechniques;
     0  Introductiono fappropriate accounting standards andinternalguidelines; and
     0  Processing for better understandingo f the costs of services and programs covered by the
        HIF.

        Technical assistance and training will be provided to support developments in these
areas, with requirements to bereassessedover the duration o fthe project.

        An upgrade of Financial Management Information Systems (FMIS) in the HIF is a pre-
requisite for improved financial management, with current systems failing to support effective
reporting. This will be addressedas part o f the sub-component on MISS.However, additional
support may beprovidedthrough this sub-component, interms o f identifylng business needs and
advising on financial management systems that should be inplace.

StrengtheningManagement Information Systems

        The objective o f this activity will be to upgrade existing MIS, over the duration o f the
project. It i s essential that appropriate information systems are put in place to support key
hnctions o f the HIF, especially purchasing, ensuring that data i s available to support decision-
making. Current information systems are poorly integrated and do not allow managers to make
informeddecisions. This task will consider the improvement o fthe already existingMIS system,
developed under the first project. A number o f projects are already underway in the HIF to
introduce or upgrade information systems. Specific support to be provided under this sub-
component will need to be defined once the information systems audit, which i s currently in
progress, is completed. Some activities that maybe supported include:



                                                 40

    0   Review o fbusiness needs;
    0   Design o f an MIS strategy for the HIF, including an implementation plan;

    0   Development o f a upgraded MIS for the HIF in accordance with the phased
        implementation plan; and
    0   Procurement o fbothhardware and software (including customization o f available
        software) for the further development ofthe system.

        The project will primarily support the provision of equipment (hardware and software),
although technical assistance will be required to define the necessary information system and
support the design andimplementation o f an effective system.

Strengtheninggeneral management in HIF and its branches

        This activity will improve the capacity of the HIF to deliver its existing remit in a more
effective and efficient manner via: the review and improvement o f existing structure, processes
and systems. This will include training in modern management techniques; development of
improved communication and public relations strategies; reorganization of the organization
structure to better support core functions (notably purchasing and contracting); humanresource
development; definingbusiness objectives; and business planning.

Sub-component 2.3: Purchasing Functions

        The HIF has only recently established itself as a true purchaser o f health services, with
the development o f new payment models for primary health care and hospital services, and the
introduction o f a contracting mechanism with health care providers. Solid progress has been
made in this area. However, there are some key weaknesses that need to be addressed. In
particular, itwill be important to improvethe design andimplementation o fpayment models and
contracts; buildstaff capacity inareas relevant to purchasing; improve the management o f drugs;
andbetter tenderingprocesses.

        It should benotedthat efforts to strengthenthe purchasing functionwill only be effective
if health care providers have sufficient management capacity and autonomy to respond
appropriately. The work planned under Component 3 inthis area will provide vital support to
this sub-component.

Provider Payments and Contracting

        The main objective o f this activity will be to support the in the ongoing refinement and
implementation o fpayment models; development o f services standards; and capacity building.

        A technical assistance andtraining packagewill beprovidedto assist the HF(and MOH)
inareassuchas:

        improving the design and implementation o f existing contracts for primary health care
        providers and health care institutions;




                                                 41

      0 preparing and implementing a plan for phasing out the current system o f invoicing,
        clearly identify the changes that need to be made to reporting and billing processes,
        financial managementandco-payment policies;
      0 developing more precise services standards and tools to ensure appropriate provision of
        care, such as the Appropriateness EvaluationProtocol(AEP) andclinicalpathways;
      0 strategizing policies and financing mechanisms for other care types such as long-term
        care and home care, including clear definition o f respective responsibilities of the health
        and social sectors;

      0 introducing processes to better utilize the data available (and define new data
        requirements) and utilize statistical techniques in order to monitor provider behavior
        (provider profiling); and

      0 capacity building in contract design, negotiation techniques, monitoring and audit, and
        costing.

        Any technical assistance that is required to support the introduction o f new payment
models and contracts for privatizedpharmacies andpublic primaryhealth care providers that are
plannedby the HIFi s likely to beprovidedthroughPSMAL.

DrugManagement

        Problems in pharmaceutical management were identified in three main areas. The first
relates to a lack o f pharmaceutical data that i s essential to appropriately forecasting procurement
needs, as well as to manage drug supply and expenditure, both in out-patient and hospital
settings. The second relates to the area o f rational drug use and the need to develop prescribing
guidelines inparticular for areas o fhighvolume or highcost drugs. The thirdrelates to a current
payment model for pharmacists that is in conflict with incentives that will promote generic
substitutionwhen this is allowedby law. Three areas of activities are, therefore, foreseen under
this sub-component with the aim o f tackling these problems: (a) the implementation o f a unique
barcode system to builda dmgdatabase andthe buildingo fHIF capacity to forecast andmonitor
drug supply and expenditures usingthe database; (b) the development of prescribingguidelines
to improve rational drug use; and (c) the development o f a payment model for pharmacists
compatible with promoting generic substitution being indicated for implementation in
Component 1.

        (a) Development of pharmaceutical databases: This activity aims at implementingthe
development o fpharmaceutical databases for positive list drugs inthe out-patient setting as well
as for hospital drugs. This will buildon a drugbar coding system previously developed for out-
patient drugs but not fully implemented by the HIF. Technical assistance is envisaged to
support the development o f an IT system inthe out-patient and hospital settings. Hardware and
software will be required includingbarcode scanning technology for all hospital pharmacies and
potentially some of the contracting community pharmacies. The purchase o f a server and related
software for the HIF is envisaged to manage the databases and enhance its monitoring capacity.
Training will be requiredto support the implementationo f the technology andits appropriate use
by the pharmacies. An international consultant could be used to train local experts who could
thenact as trainers acrossthe country.




                                                   42

        (b) Prescribing guidelines and rational drug use: This activity aims at developing
prescribing guidelines for urgent target areas o f high volume and/or expensive drugs. It will
involve the Focal Point inthe Macedonian Medical Association for the establishment o f clinical
practice guidelines. Inthe first instance, it may be useful to pilot the development o f guidelines
inacouple ofdiseaseareas. This pilot couldinvolvethe formation ofatherapeutic committee of
leading experts on a national level to develop the guidelines. Technical assistanceis foreseen to
support local experts in identifyingtarget areas and developing the guidelines. The guidelines
will need to beprintedand disseminated to the relevant institutions, physicians andpharmacists.
Follow up trainingon the rationale, importance and strategy to implement the guidelines should
precede the dissemination o f the guidelines. It may be important to also have the HIF develop
incentives so that the guidelines are followed. These pilots will provide useful lessons on the
development and implementation o f guidelines should the databases described above identify
areas for targeting future rational druguse guidelines.

        (c) Paymentmodelsto promote generic substitution: The regulatory developments to
allow generic substitution by pharmacists has been proposed under Component 1. However, in
order for pharmacists to engage in generic substitution so that it promotes the selection o f lower
cost drugs and hence promotes competition, a payment model for pharmacists needs to be
developed that includes such appropriate financial incentives. Technical assistance i s envisaged
to develop andimplementa new incentive basedpayment model for pharmacists.

Improving TenderingProcesses

       Processes of procurement for pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other items to
support HIF activities are veryweak and fundamentally flawed. They are wasteful and lackingin
transparency.

        Support to improve procurement practices in the HIF during 2004 i s being provided
separately, under the PSMAL.          A consultant has been hired to support the international
competitive tendering o f positive list drugs and most highvolume, highcost hospital drugs and
supplies and to develop efficient, transparent and lawful procurement processes to be applied to
all procurement carried out bythe HIF.

        Complementing this work, this sub-component will provide additional training inmodern
procurement practices for key HIF staff, in order to further develop skills and capacity in this
important area. Some o f the areas that may be covered include tender design and evaluation,
supplier debriefing, contract management, monitoring procurement performance, stores and
inventory controlanddisputeresolution.

       A skills audit and needs assessmentwill be carried out, inorder to determine the precise
nature o f training that is required, and how it i s best provided (tailored training courses in FYR
Macedonia provided by local or international trainers, internationally offered courses for
individuals). It is expectedthat the procurement consultant will support this process, advising on
training that will enhancethe capacity buildingthat has already taken place.




                                                  43

         The main output will be a procurement unit in the HIF that is sufficiently trained to
perform their functions in accordance with the legislation, ina manner which provides value for
money.

COMPONENT 3: ImprovingService Delivery (US$5.58 million)

         This component aims to improve the quality and efficiency o f health care providers by
supporting development o f staff skills, introduction o f new management methods and
instruments and essential upgrades o f units selected to implement well defined sub-projects.
These improvements will enhance the management and operational capacity of health care
providers, puttingthem in a better position to respond to the challenges and incentives o f new
contracting arrangements with the HIF. This component includes two subcomponents: (i)
hospital management and primary care, and (ii) Grant Facility for improving service quality
                                                  the
and efficiency.

Sub-component 3.1: Hospital Management andprimary care

         This sub-component will support management strengthening,                introduction to
management teams instruments that will allow the hospitals to meet the performance targets
underthe contracting scheme, further develop skills ofPHC staff, improve coordination between
PHC and Hospital providers, and implement continuous quality improvement initiatives. This
sub-component includes the following three activities:

(i)      Strengthening PHC training capacity.      This activity will aim to achieve sustainable
capacity for training o f primary care physicians. It will support training activities provided by
the department o f PHC established as part o f the Medical Faculty o f the Skopje University,
expanding coverage of the continuous medical education programs (CME) programs developed
under the previous project. It was agreed that the Borrower, through MOH, would ensure
adequate financing for these CME programs in the Borrower's 2005 fiscal year health budget.
This has been estimated at US$250,000. It was also agreed that the Borrower, through MOH,
would make best efforts to ensure the continual adequate financing for CME during the
subsequent years o f the Project, includingcontinuous support for licensing activities.
(ii) StrengtheningHospitalManagement.Theaimoftheactivitiesunderthissub-component
i s to prepare the service providers for an organizational change and develop essential skills and
instruments required to respond to the challenges of the implementation o f the new HIF
contracting scheme. It will provide technical assistance, training and limited goods to support
hospitals that have signed agreements with the HIF by developing staff skills in the following
areas: management, organizational development, development o f business plans, debt
restructuring, continuous quality improvement, customer focused healthcare and perfomance
scorecardfor measuring results.
(iii) Electronicregistryforhospitalsandout-patientfacilitieswillbedevelopedandinclude
financial and medical data. This will require the development o f specific legislation for such a
registry and the development and later implementation o f unique code tables for health care
institutions, doctors, diseases and drugs. It is expected that this task will overlap and be
complimentary to other activities in components 1 and 2 o f the project, particularly the
pharmaceuticals relatedtasks (support to the drugs payments system) as well as work on contract



                                                44

management and the improvement o f the tendering processes. This activity will also form the
basis for uniquebar coding to beintroduced throughout the health care sector.

Sub-component 3.2: Grant Facilityfor Improving Service Quality and Efficiency

        This sub-component will establish a GrantFacility (GF)to act as an investment vehicle to
support improvements in quality and efficiency in the provider network-with     a primary focus
on hospitals. The GF will be establishedto provide support to activities undertaken under Sub-
component 1, as described above inpara (ii). GF will include two phases of hding: (a) a
                                               The
non-competitive window to finance some immediate demonstration projects, and (b) a
competitive window financing sub-projects on a demanddrivenbasis.

        (a) The non-competitive phase, (estimated total cost US$600,000) will runinparallel to
the development o f the first sub-component, and will finance 5 demonstration proiects to
implement rapid changes in selected facilities to demonstrate the capacity to affect change. At
the end o f this phase, a rapid evaluation will be carried out to evaluate the impact o f the
demonstration projects and to incorporate lessons learned into the execution o f the competitive
phase o fthe GF.

        Categories o f funding will include: equipment, minor civil works, technical assistance
(external and local consultants) and training. The procurement o f these sub-projects will be
handled by the PCU in accordance with the procurement guidelines as set out in the Legal
Agreement. The selection of project areas has been carried out during the preparation of the
project, and i s based on: (i) data from the Survey on Hospital Management Capacities and
Management Development Needs in the FYR Macedonia, conducted during the project
preparation phase in December 2003; (ii)     geographical distribution to maintain the regional
equity o f the project's interventions; and (iii) willingness and commitment of the selected
hospitals and connected primary care staff to participate. The 5 demonstration sub-projects are
proposed to be carried out in the Family Medicine Clinic in Skopje and in medical centers in
Gostivar, Gevgelia (acute care only), Kolcheny and Struga. The following areas are proposedto
be worked on during the demonstration phase. These suggestions have been confirmed with the
Working Group. The selectedfacilities will have to agree to carry out the implementation o f one
of the options listed below. The details regardingeach o f these sub-projects are provided inthe
POM:


    0   Improvement inHospitalEnergyEfficiency
    0   Development o fthe Quality Management process
    0   Implementation o f strategies to reduce average length o f stay and decreasing hospital
        admissions: Appropriateness o f Care EvaluationProtocol(AEP) and ambulatorization
    0   Strengtheninginteraction ofthe hospitalwith other institutions

    0   Development o f generalpractice / family medicine
    0   Improving patients' satisfaction, participation in the clinical care process and patient
        safety

        (b) The competitive phase ofthe GF will be activated once three conditions are satisfied:
(a) the business plans have been finalized under sub-component 1; (b) all providers have



                                               45

undergone training activities under sub-component 1;and (c) the evaluation o fthe demonstration
projects has been finalized. The competitive window will finance a total o f US$1.76 million
which will be allocated to a set of sub-projects presented by HospitalManagement Boards (and
endorsed by the primary care doctors in the region) to the PCU and approved by the project
Steering Committee.

       Based on the observations from the facility management surveys and the diagnosis
provided duringproject preparation, the following categories o f investment have beendefined as
eligible under the competitive phase o f the GF to achieve measurable improvements o f health
services efficiency or quality:

    (i) Services: Technical assistance for improving hospital management (including
            financial, clinical and organizational aspects) and for continuation o f activities proven
           to work under the demonstration projects or initiated in core strengthening;
           Development o f performance-based evaluation and incentive systems; Improvement
           o f hospital information systems; Medical Education and training; Management and
            Care Providers Training;
    (ii)    Goods: Medical equipment related to achieving the performance targets in the
            contract, as well as for the primary care doctors completed successfully their CME;
            Computer equipment related to achieving the performance targets inthe contract; and
    (iii)   Civil Works. Minor civil works rehabilitation oriented to the increase in ambulatory
            surgeryor non-hospital basedsolutions.

        Once the sub-project proposals are received, the PCU staff and contracted consultants for
evaluation activities will assess the social, institutional, environmental, economic, financial and
technical feasibility o f the sub-project (based on methodology and criteria presented in POM).
Once sub-projects are approved by the Steering Committee, as with the demonstration projects,
the procurement for these sub-projects will be carried out by the PCU. Participating hospitals
and primary care centers will receive goods, works and services financed under the eligible
categories as non-reimbursable contributions. In order to ensure ownership and commitment o f
the investments, a business plan for each facility will have a chapter which will describe how
each facility will maintain the equipment provided as well as how it plans to finance recurrent
costs.

COMPONENT4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation(US$0.95 million)

        This component will ensure effective administration and implementationo fthe project by
supporting the operation o f a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which will be responsible for all
the day-to-day project implementation activities on behalf o f the M O H and HIF. The PCU has
been established and includes six project coordinators (appointed by MOH and HIF), three
assistant coordinators, a procurement officer, a financial officer, and an administrative assistant.
The PCU staff will report to a Principal Coordinator who will report to the project Steering
Committee. This component will finance the salaries o f PCU staff, except those o f the Principal
Coordinator andproject coordinators, as well as assistanceandtraining for PCU staff, translation
costs, project audits, as well as some office equipment and incremental operating costs. This
component will also ensure the highest quality o f project implementation through effective



                                                 46

monitoring and evaluation o f project achievements and outcomes. During the course o f the
project, the PCU staff, with the assistanceo fthe PAU, will beincharge o fthe overallmonitoring
and evaluation o f project activities and for evaluating the impact of the project during and after
implementation.




                                                47

                                        Annex 5: Project Costs
                    FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSector Management Project

                                                                  Local          Foreign              Total
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                          us$             us$                us$
                                                                 million         million             million
Policy FormulationandImplementation                                0.57             0.43               1.oo
StrengtheningHIFGovemanceandManagement                             0.65             2.70               3.35
ImprovingServiceDelivery                                           3.27             1.85               5.12
Project Management, MonitoringandEvaluation                        1.03             0.14               1.17
Total Baseline Cost                                                5.52             5.12              10.64
  PhysicalContingencies                                            0.11             0.08               0.19
  Price Contingencies                                              0.30             0.11               0.41
                                   Total Project Costs'            5.93             5.31              11.24
                            Interest during construction           0.00             0.00               0.00
                                          Front-endFee             0.00             0.10               0.10
                            Total Financing Required               5.93             5.41              11.34


'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$0.23 million, and the total project cost, net o f taxes, i s US$11.11
million. Therefore, the share ofproject cost net o f taxes i s 90%.




                                                      48

                            Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                   FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSector Management Project

        The proposed project is a second operation inthe health sector inFYR Macedonia, and
therefore, project management arrangements build on the experience and lessons learned under
the first project - HSTP. One o f the main lessons o f the first project is the need to increase the
in-house capacity o f the M O H which remains weak.             For the most part, the project
implementation unit under the first project had a high degree o f autonomy from the MOH.
Subsequently, the staff o f the MOH didnot benefit from the project as they couldhave. During
the first project, the M O H also suffered from frequent changes o f leadership (6 Ministers in 6
years), which only exacerbated the persistent weakness of the MOH, particularly in the area o f
policy formulation.

        Consequently, the design o f project implementation arrangements for the proposed
second project envisions a more integrated approach, one where technical specialists within the
M O H and HIF are part o f the project management structure and are assisted by coordinators
hiredon a competitive basis as consultants. The proposed arrangements place an emphasis on
strengthening of capacity within the MOH and HIF which also contribute to long-term
sustainability o f knowledge and skills in the M O H and HIF when the proposed project i s
completed.

         A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established andwill be responsible for all
the day-to-day project implementation activities financed by the project. The PCU includes 6
Project Coordinators, 2 o f which are appointed by M O H and 4 o f which are appointed by the
HIF. These are junior and senior staff who currently work in each of the two main project
agencies, the M O H and HIF. Inaddition, the PCUincludes three Assistant Coordinators (one for
each o fthe project components), a procurement officer, a financial officer, and an administrative
assistant (hired as consultants). The Assistant Coordinator responsible for Component 2 on the
HIFmanagementis financed untilDecember 31,2004 bythe DutchTrust Fund(DTF) which is
supporting the PSMAL preparation and implementation. Once the DTF funds are no longer
available, that coordinator will be financed by the Loan. Likewise, a procurement officer
(currently financed by the Dutch Trust Fundfor PSMAL) has beenhiredas part of the PCUon a
part time basis until end 2004, at which point, he will begin to work full-time on the
implementation o f this project and would be financed by the Loan. The PCU staffwill report to
a Principal Coordinator who will be a high level M O H officer, and who will work about 20
percent of hisher time on the project to supervise the work o f the PCU, including signing the
documentsissuedby the PCUon behalfo fthe M O H andthe HIF.

         The project will be implemented under the guidance o f an already established Steering
Committee which includes the Minister o fHealth, the Director o fHIF and a representative o fthe
Minister o f Finance. The Principal Coordinator will report to the Steering Committee on the
progress of project implementation. In addition, Project Working Groups are established and
meet regularly to discuss ongoingissues with project implementation andpolicy developments in
their respective Group.




                                               49

Specific activities andresponsibilities o fthe PCUstaffwill include:

1. Coordinate the implementation of each project component and sub-components and
   ensure that all necessarytechnical and procedural inputs are provided in a timely manner
  to ensure smooth project implementation.

2. Regularly supervise, monitor, evaluate and report on project activities to the MOH,
  relevant government agencies and to the World Bank, as stipulated in the Legal
  Agreement. This includes the review, revision andupdating o fthe overall implementation
  plan and schedules and monitoring of activities and ensuring they are carried out in
   accordance with the highest professional standards and in accordance with the agreed
  objectives.

3. With the active input, planning, review and consensus o f all PCU, HIF and MOH staff
  develop, maintain and revise as needed the POM which defines standardized operating
  procedures for the project andthe PCU.

4. Organize andparticipate inmeetingso f the Working Groups andthe Steering Committee
   to ensure that all stakeholdersare informed o fthe progress andproblems occurring inthe
   project.

5. Workjointly with the PAUto assist to implement M&E o fthe project, including:
     0   Monitoring the performance indicators as agreed with the Bank for the duration of
         the term o fthe HSMP;
     0   Establishing aplan for M&Eactivities o fthe MOH, o fthe HIF andthe PCU for the
         duration o fthe term o fthe HSMP;
     0   Agreeing with the MOH, HIF and Bank on the evaluation studies to be conducted
         prior to the completion o fthe HSMP.

6. The financial officer inthe PCU will ensure that all project financial obligations are met
   ina timely manner, includingthe payment for goods and services, the accounting of all
   activities and ensuring that project implementation i s carried out within the specified
   budget.

7. The procurement officer in the PCU will ensure that works, goods and services are
   procured in accordance with World Bank guidelines and in accordance with the
   provisions o f the POM and procedures, including: (i) preparation o f technical
                                                                the
   specifications for works and goods, development o f draft TORS for consultant and
   training services, scheduling of procurement actions, development o f draft terms and
   conditions for contracts; (ii)updating the procurement planon a regular basis andhaving
   the planapproved on an annual basis by the Bank and by the M O H andHIF; and (iii)     the
   participation inprocurement evaluation committees.

8. Liaise with other projects in the MOH, and HIF and in the Government o f FYR
   Macedonia to ensure coordination with the design, goals and objectives o f the HSMP.
   This will entail makingsure that PSMAL activities are coordinated with HSMP activities



                                             50

  as well as with all relevant agencies. This also includes coordination with the SPIL
  project.

9. Coordinate all project communications with MOH, HE and other relevant health
  stakeholders, beneficiaries, and the Bank as well as with other relevant ministries,
  agencies, project beneficiaries andother international financing institutions.




                                          51

z
0
.3
c,
Q
.3
N
E
Q

0
E     IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                   F'YRMACEDONIA : HealthSector Management Project

FinancialManagementArrangements

CountryIssues.

         A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for FYR Macedonia has been
carried out in 2003. The draft CFAA concludes that the public financial management (PFM)
fiamework in FYR Macedonia i s still evolving, and improvements are required in many o f the
components comprising the PFM system.             In addition to establishing modem financial
institutions, the country has had to develop the skills and capacities to manage its own affairs.
Given the current state of public financial management in FYR Macedonia, the draft CFAA
assesses the global fiduciary risk to the government as substantial and the overall fiduciary risk
to Bank project funds as moderate. Therefore, the Bankwill support the implementation agency
inestablishing an acceptablesystemfor transactionrecording andreporting as well as improving
its internal control system. The Bank FMteam will also undertake capacity building initiatives
inthe areaoffinancialmanagement.

         The draft Accounting and Auditing Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
(A&A ROSC) of June 2003 concludes that there are serious audit quality issues and absence of
an adequateprofessional auditing organization and recommends the establishment of a regimeto
regulate the audit profession. Accordingly, the project financial statements would be audited
each fiscal year, except for the first audit o f the project financial statements which will cover
effectiveness date to December 31,2005, by independent auditors acceptableto the Bank and in
accordance with standards and guidelines acceptable to the Bank. The annual Financial
Statements o f the HIF will also be audited each fiscal year and there will be an annual special
review (perform agreed-upon-procedures)ofthe implementation and impact ofthe agreed action
plan, andreview certain keyrisks, internalcontrols and financial assertions, inaccordancewith
standards acceptableto the Bank, by auditors acceptableto the Bank.

Strengths and Weaknesses.

         The main strength will be the experience o f the financial management staff with Bank-
financed projects andthe relatedrequirements. There are no significant weaknesses.

Implementing Enti&

         The project will support the establishment of a PCU that will be responsible for the full
scope o f project implementation activities. MOH and HIF have already assigned staff members
who will work as project coordinators in their institutions. MOH agreed to select a senior
principal coordinator who will be responsible for overall implementation. In addition, assistant
coordinators arebeingselected.




                                                 53

Flow of Funds.

         Project funds will flow fi-om: (i) Bank, either via a single Special Account which will
                                           the
be replenished on the basis o f SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment
withdrawal applications; and(ii)   the Government, via the budgetofthe MOHandHIF.

Stafpng.

         It has been agreedthat two consultants inthe PCU will be responsible for procurement
and financial management/disbursementfunctions. The financial management consultant inthe
PCU i s currently involved as a financial officer in the project preparation unit, financed by a
PHRD grant. The financial consultant hasworked inthe same capacity duringthe previous Bank
financed project andhas received training inBankprocedures. Although these consultants are to
be financed by the Loan, it is plannedto convert all PCU staff, including these two consultants,
to regular M O H or HIF staff members as soon as possible during implementation, dependingon
the liftingof the hiring freeze.

Accounting Policies and Procedures.

         The PCU will institute a set o f appropriate accounting procedures and intemal controls
including authorization and segregation o f duties that should be documented inthe POM. There
will bemainly a cash-basedaccounting with recognition o f liabilities when invoices are received.
The PCU has agreed to document its accounting procedures and internal controls, acceptable to
the Bank, inthe Project Operational Manual by effectiveness date.

InternalAudit.

         No internal audit acceptable to the Bankis inplace.

ExternalAudit.

         The project's Financial Statements (which include SOEs and Special Account), will be
audited each fiscal year, except for the first audit covering from effectiveness date to December
31, 2005, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards and
TORSacceptable to the Bank The cost o f the project audits will be financed from the loan. The
annual Financial Statements of the HIF will be audited each fiscal year and there will be annual
special review (perform agreed-upon-procedures) of the implementation and impact o f the
agreed action plan, and review certain key risks, intemal controls and financial assertions, in
accordancewith standards acceptable to the Bank, by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The first
special review would cover the period to December 31, 2005, and subsequent review would be
carried out annually. The terms o f reference o f the special review will be agreed between the
Bank andthe HIFat a later date. On or beforemid-term review, the Bank will evaluate the need
for an independentaudit (review) o f HIFby independentauditors acceptable to the Bank, and if
necessary, such audit requirement will be included in subsequent operations. All audit financial
statements and special reviews are to be submitted within six months o f the end o f each fiscal
year or each fiscal period.




                                                 54

Reporting and Monitoring.

        The project will produce all financial reports and SOEs for the Bank using the same
accounting system which will serve statutory reporting purposes. Project management-oriented
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring and supervision. The
PCU will produce a full set of FMRs every three months throughout the life o f the project. The
formats of the FMRs have been agreed with the PCU andwill include:


    0   Narrative Progress Report
    0   Project Sources and Uses o fFunds
    0   Uses ofFundsbyProject Activity
    a   Special Account Statement
    0   Project Balance Sheet

    0   OutputMonitoringReport

I nformation Systems.

        An integrated accounting software package will be installed and should be able to serve
bothBank and statutory reporting requirements. Currently the PPUo f the PHRDgrant is using a
simple Excel-based system to record the transactions and produce FMRs inrespect o f the PHRD
Grant.   This system shall be used by the PCU in the interim up to the time when the
implementation of the accounting software is completed. To strengthen its financial capacity,
the PCU has agreed to implement an integrated computerized financial management system, by
effectiveness date.

Impact of Procurement Arrangements.

        The P C U includes a procurement specialist who already has experience with the Bank
 procedures and requirements. The POM will establish the links between procurement and
 financial management / disbursements procedures. A procurement assessment o f the Project
 was performed by a Bank Procurement Specialist and procurement under this project has been
 put in the high-risk category due mainly to the general low procurement capacity within the
 country. Therefore, successful procurement will be dependent on a high level o f coordination
 within the PCU. Notwithstanding the above, the thresholds for prior review have been raised
 slightly in the hope to quickly build capacity within the PCU.        However, if necessary
 procurement supervision may be increased.

Action Plan, IfRequired (Agreed with Borrower).


    0   By effectiveness date, the PCU will document its accounting procedures and intemal
        controls inthe Project Operational Manual.
    0   To strengthen its financial capacity, the P C U has agreed to implement an integrated
        computerized financial management system, by effectiveness date.




                                               55

SupervisionPlan.

       During project implementation,        the Bank will supervise the project's         financial
management arrangements in two main ways: (i)            review the project's quarterly financial
monitoring reports, the project's audited financial statements, the audited financial statements for
HIF and the auditors' management letters; and (ii) the Bank's supervision missions,
                                                         during
review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements to ensure compliance
with the Bank's requirements. As required, a Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist
will assist inthe supervision process.

DisbursementArrangements

       The proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed in accordance with the guidelines in the
"Disbursement Handbook", using traditional disbursements procedures, either through direct
payment or based on the use o f statements of expenditures (SOE). The project has been designed
to be carried out over a period of approximately four and a halfyears and the project is expected
to be completed by December 31, 2008. A period of six months will be allowed to complete
disbursements, with the Loan Closing Date of June 30, 2009. Disbursement categories, amounts
andpercentages to be financed under eachcategory are presented inthe Table A, as follows.

                             Ta le A: Allocation ofLoanProcl :ds
   ExpenditureCategory               Amount inUS$ million               FinancingPercentage
Goods                                             3.78              100%of foreign expenditures,
                                                                    100%o flocal expenditures
                                                                    (ex-factory cost), and 83% of
                                                                    local expenditures for items
                                                                    procuredlocally
Consultant Services                               2.65              100%ofexpenditures of
                                                                    foreign consultants;
                                                                    83% of expenditures of local
                                                                    consulting firms; and
                                                                    85% of expenditures of
                                                                    services of local individual
                                                                    consultants.
Training                                          1.03              100%
Grant Facility                                    2.36              100%
Incremental Operating Costs                       0.08              95% o f expenditures incurred
                                                                    through December 31,2005;
                                                                    80% ofexpenditures incurred
                                                                    through December 31,2006;
                                                                    65% of expenditures incurred
                                                                    throughDecember 31,2007;
                                                                    25% of expenditures thereafter
             Total Project Costs                  9.90
                  Front-end Fee                   0.10
                          Total                  10.00

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

       Disbursement arrangements under the project will be carried out using SOE procedures
for (i) goods costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent; (ii)for services o f consulting firms
costing less than US$lOO,OOO; (iii) services o f individual consultants costing less than
                                          for
US$50,000; (iv) for services providedunder the Grant Facility; and (v) for training, study tours,
and operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify to the Borrower.
The required supporting documentation and other records, including agreements between the
PCU and implementing agencies, will be retained by the PCU for at least one year after the
receipt by Bank o f the audit report for the year inwhich the last disbursement was made. This
documentation will be made available for review by the independent auditors andby the visiting
Bank staff upon request during supervision missions.             The processing, disbursement and
monitoring o f the allocations o f the proceeds of the Bank Loan and o f Borrower counterpart
fundswill bemanagedbythe PCUfinancial officer.

Special account:

        To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in a Macedonian
National Bank (MNB).The Authorized Allocation will be US$l,OOO,OOO and the initial deposit
into the Special Account will be US$500,000 untilthe aggregate amount o fwithdrawals from the
Loan Account plus the total amount o f all outstanding commitments entered into by the Bank
shall be equal to or exceed US$2 million. Payments out o f the Special Account will cover
eligible expenditures under the project and the MOF will reimburse the Special Account for any
ineligible expenditures. The Special Account will be replenished monthly or at least on a
quarterly basis or when the undisbursedbalance of the Special Account falls below an amount
equal to one third or less of the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever occurs first.
Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly basis and will be accompanied by
full documentation, including monthly bank statements of the Special Account, for all items
except those eligible for disbursement on the basis of the SOEs. All other applications for direct
payment or issuance o f Special Commitments must be for an amount not less than 20 percent o f
the Special Account allocation. At presentthere i s no planto moveto periodic disbursements.

        The PCU will also open a Project Account into which a share o f Government's cash
contribution will be deposited every year. A deposit o f US$110,000 equivalent would be made
for each semi-annual period following the initial deposit o f US$lOO,OOO to be made by the date
of project effectiveness.    The Project Account and the Special Account would be audited
annually byindependentauditors, acceptable to the Bank.




                                                   57

                                    Annex 8: Procurement
                  FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSectorManagement Project

        This section describes the procurement arrangements under the Health Sector
Management Project financed by IBRD. The total cost o f the proposed Project i s estimated at
US$11.34 million, o fwhich the IBRDloan (Loan) will finance US$lO.O million. IBRDfinanced
Goods and Works contracts under the project will be procured in accordance with the World
BankGuidelines ProcurementunderIBRD Loans andIDA Credits,datedJanuary 1995,Revised
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999, (henceforth referred to as
Procurement GuideZines). IBRD financed contracts for Consulting Services required for the
project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997,Revised September 1997,January
1999 and May 2002, (henceforth referred to as Consultant GuideZines). The project inputs,
estimated costs and procurement methods for the Loan are presented in Table A based on the
details o f proposed procurement arrangements outlined in the POM. The project Procurement
Plan is includedinTable B1. Other procurement information, includingprior review thresholds
for IBRD financed contracts, and summary assessment o f the procurement capacity o f the
implementing agency and IBRD's review processes are presented in Table B. For procurement
under the Loan, the Borrower will use the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents (SBD),
Standard Form o f Consulting Contracts and Request for Proposals (RFP), and Standard Bid
Evaluation Report Forms. The Standard Bidding Documents for procurement of Information
Systems will be used for procurements o f all IT equipment estimated to cost over US$lOO,OOO
per contract These will comprise Supply and Installationof Information Systems - Single Stage
Biddingor Supply and Installationof Information Systems - Two Stage Bidding(both version
March 2003 or more recent). Also, the sample procurement documents and forms developed in
ECA Region for small value procurement will be adapted to suit the Project needs for
procurement particularly for items procuredthrough the Grantsscheme.

CountryIssues

    A CountryProcurement Review (CPAR) for FYRMacedoniawas carried out inJune 2002.
A summary ofthe key findings ofthe CPAR for FYRMacedonia ispresentedbelow:


    0   The FYRMacedonia passeda Law on Public Procurement in 1998 and amendedin2002,
        however the law has many deficiencies which lead to frequent misapplication o f the
        provisions o f this Law which leads to dubious practices and results in excessive political
        interference incontract award decisions inFYR Macedonia.. This is further exacerbated
        bythe fact that there havebeenrelatively few implementingregulations adoptedto date;
        The lack o f implementation regulations has had a knock on effect on Bank financed
        procurement where some PrU directors (and procurement staff) were unable to act
        effectively or make timely decisions due to political constraints, these inturn due to the
        low awarenesso fthe provisions o fthe LPP and lack o f any enforcement measures; and
    0   The CPAR concludes that FYR Macedonia should be rated as a high risk country in
        respect ofthe public procurement system.




                                               58

Strengthsand Weaknesses

        The strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the project procurement management
system include: (i)  Project procurement independencethrough the establishment o f a dedicated
PCU with a suitable staffing structure; (ii) PCU has already gained experience with the Bank's
procurement requirements; and (iii) is a general perception that Bank-financed projects are
                                     there
fair intheir handlingo f procurement. Nonetheless, the overall procurement capacity inthe PCU
i s weak giventhat the procurement officer i s new. H e will need additional training.

Notification of Business Opportunities

        A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in May 2004 issue o f the
Development Business announcing goods and consulting services to be procured and inviting
interested eligible suppliers andconsultants to express interest andto request any complementary
information from the Borrower. The GPNwill be updatedannually thereafter for all outstanding
procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, and consulting
assignments. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be publishedinthe on-line edition o f the
Development Business for all ICB contracts, and in the printed edition at the option of the
Borrower. For goods to be procured through ICB, individual bidding opportunities will also be
advertised inamajor localnewspaper on the same (or within 5) day(s) o fthe on-line publication.
The local advertisementswill be inthe Englishlanguage and, at the option o f the Borrower, will
also be in the local language. For consultants' contracts above US$200,000, SPNRequest for
Expressiono f Interest will be advertised inon-line edition o fthe Development Business and inat
least one major national newspaper o f wide circulation (inthe national and Englishlanguages).
The advertisement procedure for procurement packages under the Grants facility will be done in
the local language(s) for all small value procurement o f civil works, goods and services as
described inthe Grantssection o fthe POM.

Implementation and Procurement Management

        Procurement management is the responsibilityo f the PCU. The procurement capacity of
the PCU needs to be strengthened in the following areas: (i)     procurement o f IT equipment in
anticipation o f ICB tenders for computer equipment and software, and (ii)     procurement o f civil
works (small works). For IT related procurement, a specialized course on procurement o f
Information Systems at ILO center can be considered. Inregardto the civil works, the PCU will
cooperatewith the specialists/engineers from an Investment unit o f the M O H who will assist the
PCU in preparation of the bill o f quantities and supervision o f works.         A series o f small
workshops, initiatedby the Project Launch workshop scheduled around September 2004, will be
the vehicle for training inprocurement procedures for the PCU.

        Inanticipation of the start of the project implementation, the PCUis working to finalize
the POM which, among other items, will include a detailed description o f procurement methods
and procedures for the project. Any changes in the procedures set forth in the POM will be
subject to IBRDapproval, prior to beingimplemented.




                                                59

ProcurementArrangements

       The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various expenditure
categoriesunder the project are summarizedbelow.

PROCUREMENTOF GOODS

        Goods (approx. US$3.82 million equivalent) consisting o f office and computer
equipment, software, training equipment, printing materials and publications will be grouped to
the extend possible and considering project objectives in package sizes that will encourage
competitive bidding. The following methods o fprocurement will be followed:

   (i)     International CompetitiveBidding (ICB). Computer equipment and software under
           all components of the Project for contracts above US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract
           will be procured using ICB procedures in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
           Guidelines.
   (ii)    International Shopping(IS) procedure will beusedfor readily available off-the-shelf
           goods, including office and computer equipment, will have standard specifications,
           estimated to cost less US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract. This procedure will be
           based on obtaining and comparing price offers from at least three suppliers from at
           least two different countries in accordance with paragraph 3.4 of Procurement
           Guidelines.
   (iii)   National Shopping (NS) procedure will be used for readily available off-the-shelf
           goods, including small publications, supplies, furniture, and office equipment, will
           have standard specifications, estimated to cost less US$50,000 equivalent per
           contract. This procedure will be based on obtaining and comparingprice offers from
           at least three suppliers from at least two different countries in accordance with
           paragraph 3.5 o fProcurement Guidelines.

Consulting Services and Training (approximately US$4.11 million equivalent)

        Contracts for Consulting Services will bepackaged to combine related skills andservices
in order to make them attractive for competition and reduce the number of contracts to be
administered. To the extent practicable, training activities will be incorporated with consulting
services contracts. Consultant services consist o f short-and long-term assignments to be
contracted to firms and/or individuals (national and/or foreign orjointly) depending on the nature
and duration of the assignments. Selection procedures will be generally through competition
among qualified short listed consultants. The short lists for consultant services contracts with
firms shall comprise six firms with a wide geographical spread, and with no more than two firms
from any one eligible country. The consultants' short lists may (but need not necessarily be)
comprise entirely o f national consultants for consulting assignments that are estimated to cost
below US$lOO,OOO. The procurement o f consultant services contracts financed under the Loan
will be in accordance with the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines. For consulting
assignments exceeding US$200,000 equivalent per contract, expressions o f interest will be
obtained by advertisement in the Development Business (on-line), supplemented with notices
issued inthe nationalpress.




                                                60

The followingprocurement procedureswill be used for selection o f consultant services:

      Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, as described in Section 11, paras
      2.1 to 2.31 o f the Consultant Guidelines will be used if necessary for assignment under
      Component 2 o f the Project;

      Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB) procedure will be used for the selection o f a firm
      for conductingthe Public Information campaign under Component 1for which the value o f
      the assignment i s expectedto cost less thanUS$200,000;

      Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedure will be used for selection o f an auditor to carry out
      audit o fthe Financial Statementso fthe Project estimated to cost less thanUS$50,000.

      Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) will be used for contracting firms
      for certain assignmentsunder all three components o f the project for which the value o f the
      assignments i s estimated to cost less thanUS$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract.

      Individual Consultants (IC). Many specialized activities where specific skills are needed
      for short period o f time at scattered intervals and which will not be practical to package
      with the assignments for consulting firms described above, will be best served through the
      recruitment o f individualconsultants (both foreign andnational): to (i) the MOWHIF
                                                                                assist
      and the PCU in Policy and Strategy Development (componentl), and (ii)           strengthen the
      HIF(component 2). Selectionof individual consultants will be carried out inaccordance
      with Section V o f the Consultant Guidelines. Individuals will be selected on the basis of
      their qualifications for the assignment by comparing the CVs obtained in response to an
      advertisement in the national press or Development Business. The PCU staff, excluding
      project coordinators, will be selected as individual consultants, with an exception o f the
      following Single Source (SS) contracts: Three Assistant coordinators, Procurement
      Specialist, and a Financial Specialist who currently hold individual consultant contracts
      (under the PHRD Grant) and will continue their services under the Project. All the above
      individual specialists were originally selected among qualified candidates based on
      comparison o fqualifications.

TrainingActivities

        Training is an integral element o fthe project's capacity buildingobjective. The Loan will
finance training programs, including training workshops, study tours and local training. Such
training programs will be included in larger TA contracts with firms to reduce administrative
burdenon the PCU. The PCUwill be responsible for administration of a small number o f local
workshops (including project launch, mid term and completion workshops) and limitednumber
of study tours for the MOWHIF and PCU specialists. The total loan financing o f training
activities under the project is estimated at US$1.03 million. The project also includes CME
training to be financed by Government from its 2005 health budget, estimated at $250,000.
Therefore, the total cost o f training under the project is estimated not to exceed US$1.28 million
equivalent. Expenditures related to such training activities include: (a) for local training and
workshops - per diems o f participants to cover transportation, lodging and subsistence; minor


                                                  61

organizational expenses       (stationery, handouts, training materials, coffee breaks); (b) for
intemational study tours -intemational travel andvisa costs, per diems (lodging and subsistence)
and course-related expenses (fixed tuition or participation fee). Design o f the training courses
andstudytours willbedonebythe specialists contracted as short term consultants underrelevant
QCBS, CQ and/or IC procedures dependingon the value o fthe assignment as described above in
thisAnnex.

         The PCU will be expected to prepare and agree a training planwith IBRD every year.
Estimated budget, list o f participants and draft agenda for each training event will be subject to
IBRD prior review. Expenditure items for training activities, including study tours, will be
reported under SOEs. The status o f the training plan will be included as part o f the quarterly
progress reports, and will be updated and/or modified as may be mutually agreed between the
coordination units and IBRD.

CommunityParticipation(HealthCareProviders)underthe GrantFacility

         Health Care Provider grants (aggregate value US$2.36 million) expected to range up to
US$150,000 equivalent each for health care providers and will include procurement o f minor
works rehabilitation, goods and services such as technical assistance, medical education and
training, management and care providers training, medical supplies and equipment, computer
equipment. Procurement o f goods, works and services will be carried out centrallyby the PCU
inresponseto a list of sub-projects presentedbyHospitalManagementBoards andapprovedby
the Steering committee. Procurement will follow an approved budget and procurement plan, as
indicated inparagraph 3.15 o f the Guidelines, and described in further detail in a section o f the
POM, specifically dealing with the "Grants Facility".      Records o f the applied procedures and
original of the receipts will be kept by the PCU, and will be subject to annual audits. The PCU
will be responsible for preparation o f consolidated reports. The Bank will, on a sample basis,
reviewthe procedures followedbythe PCUas part ofprocurementpost review.

Smallworks

         Small works, estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract, for the rehabilitation
o f facilities participating in the project, will be awarded on the basis of three quotations from
qualified domestic contractors inresponse to a written invitation to quote. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works to be carried out, including technical specifications
and drawings, aprovisionaltimetable and a bill of quantities. An estimated US$500,000 will be
financed by Government for in-patient and out-patient facilities. Any equipment to be financed
by the Bank loan requiringpreparation of facilities will not beprocured untilthe required works
are completed. All small works to be procured through the Grant Facility will be financed by
the Loan, and may also use these procedures, or those set out under Community Participation
(Health Care Providers).

IncrementalandRecurrentOperatingCosts

         Incremental operating costs incurred by the PCU for communications, office materials
and supplies, office and equipment maintenance, transportation and vehicle maintenance, bank



                                                   62

charges and other reasonableoperating costs will be financed under the Loan for the duration o f
the project and are estimated to cost US$90,000. Financing o f incremental operating costs will
be on a declining basis. In addition, recurrent costs related to operating and maintenance o f
equipment provided under the project for the PCU and generatedby the project including the
costs for office rent, operation and maintenance, and related staff salaries for the Principal
Coordinator and for the staff o f the Policy Analysis Unit, will be financed by the Government
and are estimated at US$364,000.

Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

     Scheduling of Procurement. Prior to the issuance o f any invitation for bidding, the
proposed procurement plan(Table Bl) for the project will be updated by the PCUand approved
by IBRD. Procurement of goods and services for the project will be carried out in accordance
with the agreed procurement plan, which will be regularly updated and included in the FMRs
subject to IBRD`s review.

        Prior Review: Fulldocumentation should be submittedto the IBRD for prior review on
the following procurement contracts:

        all goods contracts awarded underICBprocedure;
        first three goods contracts awardedunder ISprocedure;
        first three goods contracts awardedunder N S procedure;
        all consulting firm contracts under QCBS and SFB procedure;
        first five consulting firm contracts under CQ procedure;
        first five consulting contracts under IC procedure;
        first consulting contract under LCS procedure;
        all consulting contracts with individual consultants and firms awarded through Single
        Source selection method;
        single source i s subject tojustification;
        all consulting contracts over $100,000 equivalent with firms;
        all consulting contracts over $50,000 equivalent with individual consultants;
        all TORSfor consulting contracts irrespective o fprocurement methodandvalue;

        Ex-Post Review: All other contracts below the Bank's prior reviewthreshold are subject
to the Bank's selective ex-post review. Periodic ex-post review by the Bank will be undertaken
duringregular supervision missions. Procurement documents, such as bidding documents, bids,
bid evaluation reports and correspondence related to bids and contracts will be kept readily
available for Bank's ex-post review during supervision missions or at any other points in time.
Table B summarizes applicable procedures andreview requirements.




                                                  63

                      TableA: ProjectCostsby ProcurementArrangements
                                         (US$ million equivalent)


                                                  Procurement Method'

 Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB            Other2             N.B.F.         Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00             0.00             0.00              0.50             0.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                           3.56             0.00             0.26              0.00             3.82
                                  (3.56)           (0.00)           (0.22)            (0.00)           (3.78)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00             2.83              0.00             2.83
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)           (2.65)            (0.00)           (2.65)
4. Training                        0.00             0.00              1.03             0.25             1.28
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)           (1.03)            (0.00)           (1.03)
5. Grant Facility                  0.00             0.00             2.36              0.00             2.36
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)           (2.36)            (0.00)           (2.36)
6. Incremental                     0.00             0.00              0.09             0.36             0.45
Operating Costs
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.08)            (0.00)           (0.08)
7. Front-end-fee                   0.00             0.00              0.10             0.00             0.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
                     Total         3.56             0.00              6.67              1.11           11.34
                                  (3.56)           (0.00)           (6.44)            (0.00)          (10.00)

'Figures inparenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Loan. All costs include contingencies.

'Includes goods to be procured through international and national shopping, consulting services (selection
procedures o f QCBS, Fixedbudget, CQ, Least-cost, single source and individual selection), training, Grant facility
(works, goods and services under Community Participation Procurement), and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project.

                           TableA1: ConsultantSelectionArrangements
                                         (US$ million equivalent)


                                                        Selection Method

 Consultant Services                                                                                        Total
Expenditure Category        QCBS         QBS       SFB         LCS         CQ        Other       N.B.F.
                   - .
A. Firms                     0.50       0.00       0.18        0.03       0.40        0.00       0.00        1.11
                            (0.50)     (0.00)     (0.15)      (0.03)     (0.34)      (0.00)      (0.00)     (1.02)
B.Individuals                0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        1.72        0.00       1.72
                            (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)      (1.63)      (0.00)     (1.63)
                   Total     0.50       0.00       0.18        0.03       0.40        1.72        0.00       2.83
                            (0.50)     (0.00)     (0.15)      (0.03)     (0.34)      (1.63)      (0.00)     (2.65)




                                                      64

             Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                               Contract Value                          Contracts Subject to
Expenditure Category              Threshold               Procurement
                                                                           Prior Review
                              (US$ thousands)               Method
                                                                          (US$ millions)

1. Goods                           >100,000                  ICB                 All
                                   <100,000                   I S         First 3 contracts
                                   <50,000                    N S         First3 contracts
3. Services                    Firms>100,000                 QCBS                All
                               Firms<100,000                  CQ          First5 contracts
                               Firms<$50,000                  LCS          First contract
                                 Any amount                  SFB                 All
                           Individuals>US$50,000              IC                 All
                           Individuals<US$50,000              IC          First 5 contracts
                           Individuals-anv amount             ss                 All

Total value o f contracts subject to prior review: 75 percent
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High

       Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every six months (with
frequent post reviews) andmay includetraining.

       The PCU will maintain complete procurement files which will be reviewed by IBRD
supervision missions. All procurement related documentation that requires IBRD prior review
will be cleared by the Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No
packages above mandatory review thresholds by RPA are anticipated. Procurement information
will be recorded bythe PCU and submitted to the MOH and HIF and to the IBRD as part of the
quarterly FMRs and annual progress reports. A simple management information system with a
procurement module will be established to assist the PCU procurement specialist to monitor all
procurement information.




                                                 65

                                                              ProcurementPlan

                                                                          No of
                                                             Proc.        pack Startto     Issue     Bids                   Ctr.      Ctr.
                                                        Type Method SBD    ages prepare   BD/RFP    received  Evaluation   Signed    Complete

Component 1-Policy Formulationand Implementation
Subcomoonent 1-Health Policv andStrateevDevelooment
ConsultantServices                                       C
A. HealthPolicy
      1. LocalConsultants                                     IC    ITQ     1   1-Jan-05  15-Jan45  29-Jan45    19-Feb-05 5-Mar-05 4-May-06

      2. ForeignConsultants                                   IC    ITQ     1   14-Jan-05 28-Jan45  11-Feb-05   4-Mar-05 18-Mar45 18-Mar-06

B. IT Strategy
      1. LocalConsultants                                     CQ    ITQ     1   16-Jun-04 7-Jul-04   28-Jul-04 18-Aug-04    1-Sep-04 14-Jan-05

      2. ForeignConsultants                                   IC    ITQ     1   30-Jun-04 21-Jul-04  4-Aug-04 25-Aug-04     8-Sep-04  6-Jan-05

C. Quality Improvement Strategyand Implementation

1. UpgradingLicensingsystem (for doctors, pharmacists,
dentists)- foreignconsultant                                  IC    ITQ     1   I-Dec-04 15-Dec-04 29-Dec-04    19-Jan-05   2-Feb-05 31-Aug-05

2. QIStrategyDevelopment(foreign consultant)                  IC    ITQ     1   15-Feb-05 1-Mar-05  15-Mar45    5-Apr-05 19-Apr-05 15-Nov-05
3. ClinicalGuidelineDevelopmentand Imp.
   Foreignconsultant                                          IC    ITQ     1   25-Jan45  8-Feb-05  22-Feb-05   15-Mar45 29-Mar-05 25-Oct-05

   Localconsultants                                           CQ    ITQ     1   15-Jan45  29-Jan45  12-Feb-05   5-Mar-05 19-Mar45 14-Dec-05

4. RationalDrugUse and guidelinedevelopment
            Localconsultants                                  IC    ITQ     3   1-Feb-05  15-Feb-05  1-Mar-05 22-Mar45      5-Apr-05 30-May-06

            Foreignconsultant                                 IC    ITQ     1   15-Feb-05 1-Mar-05  15-Mar45     5-Apr-05 19-Apr-05 18-Jun-05
D. PHC Strategy
      1. LocalConsultants                                     IC    ITQ     2   1-Mar-05 15-Mar45    5-Apr-05   26-Apr-05 10-May-05   6-Nov-05

      2. ForeignConsultant                                    IC    ITQ     1   20-Mar45  3-Apr-05  24-Apr-05 15-May-05 29-May-05 26-Sep-05
E. PrivatizationStrategyand ImplementationPlan
      1. LocalConsultants                                     CQ    ITQ     1   2-Apr-05  30-Apr-05 21-May-05   11-Jun-05 25Jun-05 22-Nov-05

      2. ForeignConsultant                                    IC    ITQ     1   1-May-05 15-May-05 29-May-05    19-Jun-05    3-Jul-05 16-Sep-05
F. PharmaceuticalStrategy
1.ImproveDrugRegistration Process
            1. LocalConsultants                               IC    ITQ     2   15-Jan45 29-Jan45    12-Feb-05   5-Mar-05 19-Mar-05 15-Oct-05
2. Regulation and Generic Substitution
             1. LocalConsultants                              IC    ITQ     3   15-Aug-04 29-Aug-04  12-Sep-04   3-Oct-04 17-Oct-04 17-Oct-05

             1. ForeignConsultants                            IC    ITQ     1   1-Sep-04  15-Sep-04 29-Sep-04   20-Oct-04 3-Nov-04     1-Feb-05


Goods                                                    G
1.Computerand office equipment(quality impr. and
licensing)                                                    N S   ITQ     1   15-Feb-05 15-Mar45  29-Mar-05   12-Apr-05 3-May-05     2-Jul-05
2. Publication/Disseminationof DrugRegulationsand
formulary                                                     N S   ITQ     1   1-Jan-06  28-Jun-05  12-Jul-05   26-Jul-05 16-Aug-05 15-Oct-05

3. Publication/DisseminationofClinicalGuidelines              N S   ITQ     1   1-Jan-06  28-Jun-05  12-Jul-05   26-Jul-05 16-Aug-05 15-Oct-05

4. Equipmentfor MOH                                           N S   ITQ     1   1-Mar-05 29-Mar45    19-Apr-05  3-May-05 17-May-05    12-Jut-05


Training                                                 T
                                                                    annual multi
1.Clinical guidelinesandprotocols                                   plan   ple  1-Sep-04     n/a   n/a        n/a         nla        31-Dec-08
                                                                    annual multi
2. StrategyDevelopmentand implementation                            plan   ple  1-Sep-04     n/a   n/a        n/a         n/a        31-Dec-08
                                                                    annual multi
3. Licensing                                                        plan   ple  1-Sep-04     n/a   n/a        n/a         n/a        31-Dec-08

SubcOmDOnent2-PR Campaign& Communications
ConsultantServices                                       C
A. Develop Strategy



                                                                      66

                                                                          No of
                                                             Proc.        pack Start to     Issue     Bids                    Ctr.       Ctr.
                                                        Type Method SBD    ages prepare   BD/RFP    received Evaluation      Signed   Complete
1. LocalConsultants                                           CQ    ITQ     1   1-Aug-05 15-Aug-OS   5-Sep-OS    26-Sep-05 10-Oct-OS 24-Dec-05
B. ImplementPR Campaign
Localconsultantfirm                                          SFB    RFP     1   1-May-05 15-May-OS   12-Jun-05   27-JuI-OS 24-Aug-05 23-Aug-08


                                                                   annual
Trainingfor MOHstaff on PR                               T    CQ    plan    1   1-Sep-04     nla   nla        nla         nla          31-Dec-08


ConsultantServices                                       C

ForeignConsultants                                             IC   ITQ     1   15-May-OS 29-May-OS  12-Jun-OS    3-Jul-05   17-Jul-OS  17-Jul-07

Localconsultants                                               IC   ITQ     2   1-May-OS 15-May-OS 29-May-OS     19-Jun-05    3-Jul-05 15-Nov-07


                                                                   annual multi
Training                                                 T    CQ    plan   ple  I-Sep-04     nla   nla        n/a         nla          3 1-Dec-08

Component2 StrengtheningHIFGovernanceand
             -
Management
Sub-comoonent 1- EligibilitvandRevenueCollection
Consultantservices                                       C
LocalTA                                                        IC   ITQ     2   2-Apr-05  16-Apr-05  30-Apr-05 21-May-05     4-Jun-05    2-Oct-05
ForeignTA                                                      IC   ITQ     1   21-Apr-05 5-May-05  19-May-05     9-Jun-05 23-Jun-05 22-Aug-OS

                                                                   annual multi
Training                                                 T    CQ    plan   ple  1-Sep-04     n/a   nla         nla         nia         31-Dec-08


Sub-comoonent2 HIFManagement
                 -
ConsultantServices                                       C
A. Boardoversight
Foreignconsultants                                             IC   ITQ     1   21-Jun-05  5-Jul-05   19-Jul-OS   9-Aug-OS 23-Aug-05 20-Apr-06

LocalConsultant                                                IC   ITQ     2   2-Jun-05  16-Jun-05  30-Jun-05    21-Jul-05 4-Aug-OS 11-May-06


B. HIFManagementstrengthening(includingfinancial
managementandtraining)-firm                                  QCBS   RFP     1    1-Jul-06 29-Jul-06  12-Sep-06 11-Nov-06 11-Dec-06      8-Aug-07


Training                                                 T
                                                                    annual multi
1.Trainingindatabasedevelopment                               CQ    plan   ple  1-Sep-04     nla   nla         nla         nla         31-Dee08


Goods                                                    G
1.ITstrengtheningfor MIS(incl. Sw. for providerpayments)
  Healthinsuranceinformationsystem                            ICB   SIIS    1    1-Oct-04 29-Oct-04  28-Dec-04 26-Feb-05 28-Mar-05 28-Mar-06

  Managementinformationsystem                                 ICB   SIIS    1    1-Feb-05  1-Mar-05  30-Apr-05    29-Jun-OS 29-Jul-OS    29-Jul-06

  Documentmanagementsystem                                    ICB   SIIS    1    1-Jul-OS 29-Jul-OS  27-Sep-05 26-Nov-OS 26-Dec-05 24-Jun-06

  Healthinformationportal                                     ICB   SIIS    1    1-Jan-06 29-Jan-06  30-Mar-06 29-May-06 28-Jun-06 24-Apr-07

2. Developuniquecodingsystemandinstallation                   ICB   SIIS    1   1-May-06 31-May-06    15-Jul-06 14-Aug-06 13-Sep-06 13-Sep-07

3. Databasedevelopmentfor HIF, DrugsBureau, andRHI            ICB   SIIS    1    1-Jun-OS 22-Jun-05   6-Jul-OS    27-Jul-OS 10-Aug-OS    9-Oct-05


Sub-comoonent3- StrengthenPurchaseFunctions
ConsultantServices                                       C
1.GenericDrugpaymentsystem
Localconsultants                                               IC   ITQ     2    1-Feb-OS 15-Feb-OS   1-Mar-OS 22-Mar-OS     5-Apr-05 30-Apr-06

Foreignconsultant                                              IC   ITQ     1   1-Mar-OS 15-Mar-OS 29-Mar-OS     19-Apr-OS 3-May-05       2-Jul-05

2. Strengtheningprovider paymentsystems(including
monitoring)andcontractingsystem




                                                                      67

                                                                                   No of
                                                                      Proc.         pack Start to    Issue      Bids                   Ctr.      Ctr.
                                                                 Type Method SBD    ages  prepare   BD/RFP    received Evaluation     Signed    Complete
Localconsultants                                                       CQ    ITQ     1    1-Dec-04 15-Dec-04  29-Dec-04    19-Jan-05  2-Feb-05  4-May-08

Foreignconsultant                                                      IC    ITQ     1    1-Jan-05  15-Jan45   29-Jan45   19-Feb-05   5-Mar-05  4-Mar-08


Training                                                          1
                                                                             annual multi
1ContractManagement-rational druguse andguidelines)                    CQ    plan   ple   1-Sep-04     n/a   d a        n/a         n/a         31-Dec-08
                                                                             annual multi
2. Improve tender processes(training)                                  CQ    plan   ple   1-Sep-04     n/a   n/a        n/a         n/a         31-Dec-08

3.Training o f trainers workshops for contacting(2 weeks for                 annual
10people)                                                              CQ    plan    1    1-Sep-04     nla   n/a        nla         n/a         31-Dec-08

4.Training o f HIFregional offices on contracting (20                        annual
seminars,l-2 weeks)                                                    CQ    plan   20    1-Sep-04     n/a   n/a        n/a         nla         31-Dec-08


Goods                                                             G
1. Publications anddissemination o f guidelines                        NS     ITQ    1    1-Jan-06  22-Jan46   12-Feb-06  26-Feb-06 28-Mar46    26-Jun-06

Component3 Improve ServiceDelivery
                -
Sub-component 1 Hosoitaland Primarv care
                    -
ConsultantServices                                                C
A. StrengtheningHospitalmanagement
      1.Managementtrainingprogram
      Localconsultants                                                  IC           3    15-Sep-04 29-Sep-04  13-Oct-04   27-Oct-04 10-Nov-04 07-Aug-05

      Foreignconsultant (1 for 2 months)                                IC           1   30-Sep-04  14-Oct-04  28-Oct-04  11-Nov-04 25-NOV-04    23-JuI-05
      2. OrganizationalDevelopment
      Localconsultants                                                 CQ            1    15-Oct-04 29-Oct-04 12-Nov-04 26-NOV-04 10-Dec-04 06-Sep-05

      Foreignconsultant (1 personfor 3 months)                          IC           1    30-Oct-04 13-Nov-04 27-Nov-04   11-Dec-04 25-Dec-04 22-Aug-05
      3. DevelopBusinessPlan
      Localconsultants                                                 CQ            1   15-Nov-04 29-Nov-04   13-Dec-04  27-Dec-04   10-Jan-05  07-Oct-05

      Foreignconsultant (2 people for 2 months)                         IC           2   30-Nov-04 14-Dec-04   28-Dec-04   11-Jan-05 25-Jan-05  22-Sep-05
      4. DebtRestructuring
      Localconsultants                                                 CQ            1    15-Jan45  29-Jan45   12-Feb-05   26-Feb-05 12-Mar45 07-Dec-05

      Foreignconsultant (2 people for 1month)                           IC           2    28-Jan45  11-Feb-05  25-Feb-05  11-Mar-05 25-Mar-05 20-Nov-05
      5. Continuousquality improvement
      Localconsultants                                                  IC           3    15-Jan-05 29-Jan-05  12-Feb-05   26-Feb-05 12-Mar45 07-Dec-05

      Foreignconsultant (2 people for 1month)                           IC           2    30-Jan45  13-Feb-05  27-Feb-05  13-Mar45 27-Mar-05 22-Nov-05
      6. Customer-focusedhealthcaretraining
      Localconsultants                                                  IC           2    15-Feb-05 01-Mar45   15-Mar45   29-Mar-05   12-Apr-05  07-Jan46

      Foreignconsultant (1personfor 1 .5 month)                         IC           1    28-Feb-05 14-Mar45   28-Mar45    11-Apr-05 25-Apr-05 21-Dec-05
      7. Implement performancescorecard
      Localconsultants                                                  IC           2   15-Mar45 29-Mar45     12-Apr-05   26-Apr-05 10-May-05   04-Feb-06

      Foreignconsultant (2 peoplefor 1month)                            IC           2   30-Mar45   13-Apr-05  27-Apr-05  11-May-05 25-May-05    20-Jan46


B. Strengtheningof PHC
1. Training Center (strengtheningtraining capacity)                    ICB           1    01-Jan-06 31-Jan46   17-Mar-06   16-Apr-06 14-May-06 10-Nov-06

2. CME (Govt financed)                                                NBF

Goods

      1.Core strengthening Goods (materials, supplies and
    fumiture)                                                          NS            3    15-Jan-05 29-Jan-05  12-Feb-05   26-Feb-05 12-Mar45 07-Nov-05

      2. I T- electronic patient records for hospitals (financial
    andmedical)                                                        ICB           1    01-Jan-05 22-Jan-05  23-Mar-05   21-Jun-05   21-Jul-05  16-Jul-06
Training
Training for Hospital Management                                       CQ    annual multi 01-Sep-04    nla        n/a        nla        n/a      31-Dec-08




                                                                                68

                                                                                     No of
                                                                     Proc.           pack Startto        Issue        Bids                    Ctr.         Ctr.
                                                            Type Method       SBD     ages prepare      BD/RFP      received Evaluation      Signed     Complete
                                                                              plan    ple

Subcomaonent2 Grant FaciliQ
                 -                                           GF        GF
A. DemonstrationProjectsinhealthfacilitiesequipment,                                 multi
minor works, supplies, TA and training                               various various ple   01-Jan45    31-Jan-OS    17-Mar45    16-Apr-OS 30-Apr-OS 27-Oct-OS
    1. ImprovementinHospitalEnergyEfficiency
    2. Developmentof the Quality Managementprocess
    3. Implementationof strategies to reduceaveragelength
    of stay and decreasinghospitaladmissions
    4. Strengtheninginteractionof the hospitalwith other
    institutions
    5. Developmentof general practiceI family medicine
    6. Improvingpatientsatisfaction, participationinthe
    clinical careprocess andpatientsafety
                                                                                     multi
B. CompetitiveGrants                                                 various various ple   01-Jan46    31-Jan-06    17-Mar46    16-Apr-06 30-Apr-06 25-Dec-08
C. CivilWorks (govt) -supportfor facilitiesreceivinggrant                            multi
funds                                                        CW       NBF      nla    ple  01-Jan46    31-Jan46     17-Mar46     16-Apr-06 30-Apr-06 25-Dec-08
Component4 -Project Management,Monitoringand
Evaluation
ProjectCoordinationUnit
Consultant Services                                           C
2 MOHAssistantcoordinators(financedfor 58 months)                      ss      d a     2   01-Sep-04       nla          n/a       nla          n/a       31-Dec-08
HIF assistantcoordinator(financedfor 54 months)                        ss      nla     1   01-Sep-04       n/a          nla       nla          nla       31-Dec-Ol

Procurementofficer (financedpart-timefor 4 monthsand
fulltime for 54 months)                                                ss      nla     1   01-Sep-04       nla          nla       nla          n/a       3 1-Dec-08
FinancialOfficer                                                       ss      n/a     1   01-Sep-04       nla          nla       nla          nla       31-Dec-08

Translator                                                             CQ     1TQ      1   01-Mar45 15-Mar45        29-Mar45     19-Apr-OS 10-May-OS 31-Dec-08
ProjectAdministrator                                                   IC     1TQ      1   01-Sep-04 15-Sep-04       29-Sep-04   20-Oct-04 10-Nov-04 31-Dec-08
Project Audit                                                         LCS     RFP      1   01-Oct-05 22-Oct-05      12-Nov-OS    12-Dec-OS 02-Jan-06 31-Dec-08
Projectmanagementadvisor                                               IC     ITQ      1   01-Jun-04   22-Jun-04      13-Jul-04 12-Aug-04 02-Sep-04 31-Dec-06
PolicyAnalysis UnitAdvisor                                             IC     ITQ      1   01-Jun-04   22-Jun-04      13-Jul-04 12-Aug-04 02-Sep-04 31-Dec-06


Trainingexpenses                                              T
                                                                             annual multi
1. Trainingfor the PCUand PAU                                          CQ     plan    ple 01-Sep-04        nla          nla        nla         nla       31-Dec-08
                                                                             annual multi
2. Workshops for WorkingGroups                                         CQ     plan    ple 01-Sep-04        nla          nla        nla         nla       31-Dec-08


Goods                                                        G

1. PolicyUnit andRHIquality assuranceunit equipment
                                             -                         NS     ITQ      1   01-Aug-OS 22-Aug-OS       OS-Sep-05   26-Sep-05 10-Oct-OS 09-Dec-OS
2. Otherequipment(MOH, HIF or PCU)                                     N S    ITQ      1   01-Oct-04 22-Oct-04      OS-Nov-04 26-Nov-04 10-Dec-04 08-Feb-OS


Incremental Operating costs (office supplies,                        Oper.
communications,etc)                                          oc      costs     nla    SOE
Front-end-fee                                               FEF
RecurrentCosts                                               Rec      NBF

A. Operation& Maintenance                                                            Misc.

B. PrincipalCoordinator                                                                1

C. MOHPolicyUnitstaff                                                                  3

C. Othermisc.expenses (MOWHIF),rent, office expenses                                 Misc.
Note: It was agreed during negotiationsthat the Borrower, through MOH, would provide adequate financing for the CME program, developed under the first health project
financed by the Bank, in its 2005 health budget. It was also agreed that the Borrower would make best efforts to ensure that CME continues to be financed during the
subsequentyears, includingthe adequatefinancingof licensing activities.




                                                                                 69

                           Annex 9: Economic andFinancialAnalysis
                   FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSectorManagement Project

EconomicAnalysis

        Economic analysis o f a project is typically expected to contribute to the following: (i)
assess the role o fthe public andprivate sector inhealth care financing and delivery to ensurethat
the project design does not crowd-up private initiative, (ii)  evaluate the impact o f the project on
allocative and technical efficiency, (iii)look at the impact interms o f equity, (iv) evaluate costs
andbenefits to determine ifthe expectedoutcomesoftheprojectjustify the costs.

        The issue o f the appropriate roles o f the public andprivate sector inhealth care financing
and delivery in FYR Macedonia i s adequately covered in the main section o f the project
appraisal document. The emphasisi s primarilyon estimating the impact o f the project interms o f
efficiency and equity. A stylized cost-benefit analysis i s also carried out.

        The information for this economic analysis was obtained from various sources, mainly
the World Development Indicators (WDI), the Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA), the Health Systems inTransition (HiT) Report for FYR Macedonia, and data from the
Health Insurance Fund and the Institute o f Public Health in FYR Macedonia. Overall health
sector data, particularly health expenditure data in FYR Macedonia is weak and it i s expected
that HIF financial management and MOG budget support sub-components with strengthen
capacity inthis area.

MacroeconomicContext

        At the time of independence, FYR Macedonia was economically one of the least
developed of the six republics o f the SFYR and in the years immediately following
independence, the economy contracted even more. Duringthe period 1991-95, GDP growth was
negative (average o f -3.1 percent) and inflation reached 400 percent. However, due to the
efforts o f successive government, between the period 1996-2000, the economy experienced an
average positive GDP growth rate o f 2.9 percent and inflation declined to 2.2 percent. Fiscal
deficit  which was 5.5 percent during the previous period declined to 0.2 percent. These
impressive gains on the economic front were seriously jeopardized by the outbreak o f civil
conflict in2001. The economy i s currently recovering and GDP growth i s positive. In2003, the
deficit inthe general government budget was brought down to the level o f 1.1% o f GDP andthe
Government is planning to continue to keep the fiscal deficit under control. From an
international perspective, poverty in FYR Macedonia i s moderate with 7.5 percent o f the
populationwith per capita consumption below the international standardo f US$2.15 per day in
2000. However, data on poverty, especially the non-income dimensions of poverty, is limitedin
FYRMacedonia. FYRMacedonia's social programs, which aim to alleviate a growing incidence
of poverty and persistent high unemployment duringtransition are costly. Essentially, the public
pension system, unemployment insurance, and social assistanceprograms generate expenditures
(including health expenditures) equivalent to nearly a third of GDP and comprise over two-thirds
of public spending (see Table 9.1). Giventhat expenditure management i s a key objective o f the




                                                  70

Government, curbing health spendingwithout compromising principles of quality care and equal
access are some ofthe major objectives o fthe government.

                      Table 9.1:Macroeconomic indicators for FYRMacedonia
FYRMacedonia -Economic Indicators




IPercentageoftotal governmentspending                            115.7      115.5      114.9     112.3    INA
Source: WDI, 2002, IMF,2003 andMinistryofFinance, 2003.

Overview of Project Benefits

        The project i s expected to produce direct and indirect benefits. The direct benefits o f the
project are those associated with improvements in revenue collection and expenditure
management o f the HF. Benefits are especially expected from the introduction o f improved
providerpayment systems which will generate incentives for provider efficiency.

Costs and benefits of implementing improved revenue collection and administration and
expenditure management

        Table 9.2 shows revenues and expenses o f the Health Insurance Fund for the period
1999-2002. The project will support improvements in both revenue collection and expenditure
management.

        Improving Revenue Collection: The activities included under this sub-component o f the
project will support improvement in control processes for employer contributions and state
transfers and enforcement o f employer contributions. For the calculations, HIF revenue
projections are made until the year 2011. The costs o f the project are included (in denars at
current , i.e. March 2004 exchange rate). The costs include: local and intemational technical
assistance, training and information systems. The information systems component for HIF
(US$1.5 million) is dividedby four andthe amount applied to total costs. Recurrent costs for IT
equipment is 3 percent and it is expected that after 2007, there will be need for spare parts (5


 For the projections o f HIFrevenue from 2004-2011, we take 2002 as the base year, and then an average of growth
inthe consumer price index (CPI) whichis about 2.54 percent. The 2.54 percent is anaverage ofthe CPIbetween
1999-2002. Then we apply this 2.54 to project a yearly increase. I t is expected that, at a minimum, yearly HIF
revenues will reflect increases inthe CPI.



                                                        71

percent o f investment costs). Therefore, for the years 2008-011, the costs include recurrent costs
and spare part costs for IT equipment. It is expected that the benefits of the improvements will
be accrued starting in 2007. The implementation o f these activities is expected to annually
increase HIF's revenue. The increase is slow (5 percent in 2007, 7 percent in2008, 9 percent in
2009 and 10 percent in 2010 and 2011).               The estimate is based on the results of tax
administration reform projects. The results show that the net benefits of the investments far
outweigh the costs. Intotal, HIF is expected to make a net benefit o f 6.5 billion denars by 2011.
The net present value (NPV) is 5.8 billion denars (discount rate of 10percent).

                Table9.2: HealthInsuranceFundIncomeStatement1999-2002


                       1999                  2000              2001 (audited)   2002
                       (audited)             (audited)                          (unaudited)
    Revenues           12.0                  13.0              12.3              13.7
    Expenses           11.7                  12.8              12.2              13.6
    Balance            0.4                   0.2               0.1               0.1


      Table 9.3: CostsandBenefitsofimplementingimprovedrevenuecollectionand
                              administration(inMacedoniandenars)

     Year        Revenues              Benefits            costs            Net benefits
     2004            14,000,000,000 0.0                          12,667,940 -12667940
     2005            14,400,000,000 0.0                          21,113,234 -2111324
     2006            14,800,000,000 0.0                          16,890,587 -16890587
     2007            15,100,000,000            755,000,000         551,250         754,448,750
     2008            15,500,000,000          1,085,000,000        1,470,000       1,083,530,000
     2009            15,900,000,000          1,431,000,000        1,470,000       1,429,530,000
     2010            16,300,000,000          1,630,000,000        1,470,000       1,628,530,000
     2011            16,700,000,000          1,670,000,000        1,470,000       1,668,530,000
     Total                                   6,571,000,000       6,43 1,250       6,532,898,899
    Source: World Bank calculations based on MOF and HIF data

 Table 9.4: CostsandBenefitsof ImprovedHIFExpenditureManagement(inMacedonian
                                                 denars)

      Year       Expenditures          Benefits             costs           Net benefits
      2004           13,945,400,000 0                            43,214,335  -43214335
      2005           14,299,654,176 0                           129,643,009 -129643009
      2006           14,662,865,392 0                            86,428,672 -86428672
      2007           15,035,302,173            751,765,109        1,653,750      750,111,359
      2008           15,417,198,848          1,079,203,9 19       4,410,000      1,074,793,919
      2009           15,808,795,698          1,422,791,613        4,410,000      1,418,381,613




                                                    72

       Year        Expenditures            Benefits             costs                  Net benefits
       2010             16,2 10,339,109         1,621,033,911           4,410,000           1,616,623,911
       2011             16,622,08 1,723         1,662,208,172           4,410,000           1,657,798,172
       ITotal                                   6337,002,724          278,579,766           6,258,422,958   1
       Source: World Bankcalculations

         Costs and Benefits of improving HIF Expenditure Management: Similarly for
expenditures, as a result of implementation o f the project, the HIF is expected to make savings of
up to 10percent by 2011(Table 9.4). The total savings amount to 6.5 billion denars andthe net
benefit of the expenditure management component is 6.2 billion denars. Net Present value is 5.6
billion denars (10 percent discount rate). The costs inTable 9.4 include the costs of improving
HIFexpenditure management (mainly financial management andprovider payment systems) as
well as the first sub-component under Component 3 (strengthening provider capacity to respond
to HIF provider payments systems and contracting). Finally, Table 9.5 shows revenues,
expenditures and HIF balance as a result of implementing the project. This shows that HIF
balances are expected to improve as a result of improved revenue collection and better
expenditure management. This will contribute to building a better reserve fund for HIF and
contribute to fiscal stability and sustainability.

  Table 9.5: Projections of HIPRevenues, Expenditure and Balance as a result of project
                                     benefits (in Macedonian denars)

                      Revenues                ExDenditures            Balance
                            14,000,000,000          13,945,400,000            54,600,000
                            14,400,000,000          14,299,654,176           100,345,824
                            14,800,000,000          14,662,865,392           137,134,608
                            15,855,000,000          14,283,537,064         1,571,462,936
                            16,585,000,000          14,337,994,929         2,247,005,071
                            17,33 1,000,000         14,386,004,085         2,944,995,915
                            17,930,000,000          14,589,305,198         3,340,694,802
    12011                   18,370,000,000          14,959,87335 1         3,410,126,449
     Source: World Bank calculations

         Costs and Benefits from Improving Procurement of Drugs: The HIF is currently
responsible for the procurement of drugs. There are significant benefits fiom adopting a
competitive process for the procurement of drugs and medical supplies. Calculations show that
on an annual basis, HIF can expect to save 230 million denars fiom improving procurement
practices for drugs.   4




  The methodology used for these calculations are as follows: price data collected from the pharmaceutical
department o f the University o f Skopje, which were based on Macedonian tender prices o f August 2002, a Greek
government publication for the Greek data and M S H data for international prices. T h ~ tender included 55 products.
                                                                                         s
Comparative products were available inGreece for 22 o f the drugs and 10 international drugs on the M S H data base.
In6 cases the Macedonianprices were lower than the Greek prices while in2 the Macedonian prices were lower
than the MSH listed prices. In the remaining cases Macedonian prices were around 20 to well over 200 percent
higher than the Greek or M S H listed prices. There are approximately 7,000,000 outpatient prescriptions each year.



                                                        73

Other Indirect Benefits

         There are many indirect benefits o f the project which are difficult to quantify. Reducing
the length o f time each patient will remain in hospital will reduce the productivity losses
associatedwith medical care. To the extent that patients spend less time waiting for treatment or
inhospitalreceivingpost-operative treatment that theycouldobtain inanambulatory setting, this
will result in a direct productivity saving. In addition, improving the management of HIF is
expected to improve staff performance and the efficiency o f operations, including reduced
wastage and fraud through the application o f appropriate intemalcontrol.

Fiscal Impacts

         Counterpart finds are US$1.34 million over 4.5 years. This amounts to approximately
US$300,000 for each fiscal year. Annual public spending on health care is approximately
US$281 million (2002 levels). This means counterpart funds will take up to 0.05 percent o f
public resources for health (at 2002 levels). This i s a conservative estimate since it does not take
into account any increases inpublic spending for health care (beyond adjustments for inflation).
If arefurtherincreases,thencounterpartfundsasapercentageoftotalpublicspendingwill
  there
be even lower. The recurrent costs o fthe project are approximately US$165,000 per year (which
includes 10 percent of total spending on goods (US$3.8 million) and additional $365,000 o f
project recurrent costs). This amounts to 0.03 percent o f annualpublic spendingon health care.




These prescriptions cost on average 163.2 denars per prescriptions. Based on this data and assuming a minimum
savings of 20 percent on cost of drugs, will result in annual savings or 230 million denars or 7 denars per
prescription.



                                                      74

                             Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                 FYRMACEDONIA : Health Sector Management Project

The project will involve only minor works, with limitedremodeling inside existing buildingsto
 be undertaken.Contracts for the remodeling works will include appropriate clausesfor safe
    disposal o fwastes and for minimizingnoise, dust, etc. duringthe construction works.




                                             75

                         Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                  FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSectorManagement Project

____~
                                                   Planned              Actual
PCNreview                                      October 7,2003       October 7,2003
InitialPID to PIC                             October 20,2003       October 28,2003
InitialISDS to PIC                            October 20,2003      November 4,2003
Appraisal                                      March 3,2004         March3,2004
Negotiations                                   April 15,2004       April 15-17,2004
BoardRVP approval                               May 13,2004
Planned date o f effectiveness               September 1,2004
Planned date o fmid-termreview               September 1,2006
Planned closing date                         December31,2008

Key institutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:

MinistryofHealth, HealthInsuranceFund,MinistryofFinance

Bankstaffandconsultantswho worked onthe project included:

Name                                            Title                        Unit
JanBultman                                 Task Manager                     ECSHD
Loraine Hawkins                       Senior Health Specialist              ECSHD
MariaE. Gracheva                         Operations Officer                 ECSHD
Ranja Cemerska                           Operations Officer                 ECSHD
Sarbani Chakraborty                       Health Specialist                 ECSHD
Nadejda Mochinova                   Language Program Assistant              ECSHD
Anna L.Wielogorska                 Senior Procurement Specialist            ECSPS
Silviu CalinRadulescu                 Senior Health Specialist              ECSHD
Monique Mrazek                       Pharmaceuticals Specialist             ECSHD
RossenPapazov                     Financial Management Specialist           ECSPS
Nikolai Soubbotin                          Senior Counsel                   LEGEC
NicholayChistyakov                     Senior Finance Officer               LOAGl
Siew Chai Ting                LeadFinancialManagement Specialist            ECSPS
Laszlo Balkan$                Consultant, HealthInformationSystem
                                            Development
Gyorgy Novotny                    Consultant, Project Management

Bank funds expendedto date onproject preparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$ 116,376
    2. Trust funds:      US$488,800 (Government executedPHRD)
    3. Total:            US$605,176
EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining coststo approval:US$35,000
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:US$100,000




                                                76

                   Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
         FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSectorManagement Project

Project AMsBTOs, 2002-2004
ConsultantReportspreparedunderthe PHRD grants
QER Report, August 2003
FinancialManagementAssessment
World Bank.2003. FYRMacedonia: Country Assistance Strategy, Report# 26513-MIS
World Bank.2002. FYRMacedonia: Public ExpenditureandInstitutional Review,
Report # 23349-MK
EuropeanObservatory. 2004. HealthSystems inTransition (HIT) Report - FYR
Macedonia-draft
Social assessment (rapid assessment report), March2004




                                      77

                              Annex 13: PSMAL PolicyMatrix
             FYRMACEDONIA : HEALTH           SECTOR MANAGEMENT       PROJECT

                               PROPOSEDPSMAL CONDITIONS

Board Conditions                               Second Tranche Conditions



MOFBudget Directorate to adopt
sustainable aggregate spendingceilings for
2004 budget andimpose fixed ceilings on all
first line budgetentities.
BudgetCeilings to bereflectedinthe final
2004 budget submitted to Parliament.
All transactions bybudgetary entities to be    MOFincooperationwith HIFto transfer
conducted throughsingle treasury account.      HIFaccountsto MOF single treasury
                                              I account.
Government to submit legislation imposing
commitment controls on highvalue
contracts.
Procurement regulations to require ex ante
MOF approval before contracts are legally
valid.
                                           Au it
                                                                                       ~~~
Systematization Act creating MOF internal      MOFinternal audit unit to be fully staffed.
audit unit and staffing to be approved by
MOF.
Systematization Act creating internalaudit      Systematization act creating internal audit
unitinHIFapprovedbyHIFBoard.                    units inat leasttwo other first linebudget
                                                users approved by respective ministry.
Government to submit to Parliament              S A 0 to publishaudit results andperiodic
revisionto S A 0 enabling act: (a)              reports on cases reported to anticorruption
permittingSA0to focus onhighrisk budget         commission, systemic weaknesses in
entities andEBFs [111and (b) requiring          financial management, and Government's
S A 0 to publishaudit results andperiodic       progress intaking corrective actions.
reports on weaknesses infinancial
management, andgovernment's progress in
taking corrective actions.
                                        Procurement
Parliament to enact a new Law on Public
Procurement which i s satisfactory to the
Bank and inlinewith international standards
andbestpractice.
                                               Government to adopt comprehensive
                                               implementingregulations under the Law on
                                               Public Procurement, acceptable to the Bank


                                            78

                                                  andinline with international standards and
                                                  best practice.
                                                  Government to promulgate andrequire use
                                                  of standardprocurement documents and
                                                  standardforms ofcontract, acceptable to
                                                  the Bank.
                                                  MOF to beginand continue publishingon
                                                  the MOFwebsite the Register o f
                                                  Performed Public Procurement and
                                                  findingso fPublicProcurement Complaints
                                                  Committee.
                                                  A separatestate administrative bodyfor
                                                  public procurement within the Ministryo f
                                                  Finance hasbeen established andi s fblly
                                                  operational with staff, resources, andterms
                                                  o freference satisfactory to the Bank.
                                         Civil ervice
 Government to authorize a payroll-based        Government to submit to Parliament an
 mechanism for enforcing civil service          amendmentto Organic Budget Law
 hiringrequirements in 2004Annual Budget        establishingpayroll-based enforcement
 Law.                                           mechanism.
 Government to repeal "hold-harmless"
 provisionfrom civil service law, so as to
 reducenet costs o f salary decompression.
 Parliament to approve CS Law amendments
 consistent with the scale andtimingo f CS
 wage decompression as agreedwith the
 Bank.
 Satisfactory implementation o fthe Wage        Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress
 DecompressionAction Plan.                       inthe implementationofthe wage
                                                 decompression time-bound action plan
                                                 agreedwith the Bank.
                                         Health Sector
                                                HIFfinancial controlsystemsaudit hasbeen
I                                                completed and acceptedbythe Borrower's
                                                 Government and an actionplanbasedon
                                                 audit recommendations has been approved
                                                bvthe Government.
 Pharmaceutical Bureau to revise rule book      The Borrowerhas adopted anewpractice
 on abridgedprocedure for issue                  for procuringthe pharmaceuticals on the list
 pharmaceuticalmarketingauthorizations in        agreedwith the Bank, based on the
 order to eliminate inappropriate               procedures specified inthe Memorandumo f
 requirements for local testing and expert      Understanding.New supplycontracts
 opinions for drugs already tested, evaluated    sufficient to meet the requirements o fthe
 and licensedinreference countries.             HIFandhealthcareinstitutionsfor said
                                                pharmaceutical for a periodo f at least a year



                                              79

 HIFto adopt satisfactory bylawsonhospital                HIFto havecollectedcontract monitoring
 contracts and sign contracts with at least 17            data from contracted hospitals covering first
 His.                                                     six months of2004, analyzed the data, and




                                        Social Sector Expenditures
 Amendments o fthe Pension andDisability                   Regulations governing new reporting
 Insurance Law, Law on Records from the                    requirement enactedandthe reporting
 Labor Area andthe Law on Personal                         forms for individualpension contribution
 Records o f the Insured approvedbythe                     reporting developed.
 Parliament andrelevant by-laws enactedto
 enable the introductiono fthe new system o f
 mandatory monthly reporting onpension
 contributions paid for each employee
 individually.




  Satisfactory is defined as the following: (i)
                                              contracting with any willing dispenser, (ii)definition o f adequate
reimbursement mechanisms to ensure cost-containment and access.
 For 2004, "materially" i s proposed to mean: greater than +I- 5% for financial performance indicators and greater
than +/- 10%for volume and other non-financial performance indicators.



                                                       80

                                        Annex 14: Statement of LoansandCredits
                              FYRMACEDONIA : HealthSector Management Project

~                                                                                                                                                    ~~



                                                                                                                               Differencebetween
                                                                                                                               expectedand actual
                                                                Original Amount in US$Millions                                    disbursements

 ProjectID   FY     Purpose                                 IBRD         IDA       SF       GEF       Cancel.      Undisb.     Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

 PO76712    2002    COMM DEVT                                  0.00       5.00     0.00      0.00       0.00          5.55       2.10       0.00

 PO63577    2001    COMM DEVT &CULT LIL                        0.00       5.00     0.00      0.00       0.00          5.19       2.35       0.00

 PO73483    2001    CHILDROUTHDEVT LIL                         0.00       2.50     0.00      0.00       0.00          1.98       0.89       0.00

 PO70089    2001    TRADE & TRANS FACILINSE EUR                0.00       9.30     0.00      0.00       0.00          5.47      -4.28       0.00

 PO42400    2001    FESAL2                                    30.31      20.00      0.00     0.00       0.00         20.55      19.27       0.00

 PO50589    1999    TRANSPORT                                 32.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00         11.63      15.77       10.71

 PO38399    1998    IRRIGREHAB                                 7.50       5.00      0.00     0.00       0.00          7.08       6.41       6.20

 PO42399    1998    POWER                                     35.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.29          9.21       6.20       0.00

                                                     Total:  104.81      46.80      0.00     0.00        0.29        66.66      48.71       16.91




                                  FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
                                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                                Committed                                        Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                             IFC

        FY Approval    Company                     Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.   Loan             Equity      Quasi     Partic.

        1999/00        Alkaloid                    0.00         0.00        0.00      0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00       0.00

        2001           Komercijalna                4.32         0.00        0.00      0.00        4.32          0.00        0.00       0.00

        2003           MFB Macedonia               0.00         1.13        0.00      0.00        0.00          1.13        0.00       0.00

        1998           MacedoniaTelcom             0.00        11.31        0.00      0.00        0.00         11.31        0.00       0.00

        1997           Makedonija                  1.76         0.00        0.00      0.00         1.76         0.00        0.00       0.00

        1997           Nikol-Fert                  3.80         0.00        0.00      0.00        3.30          0.00        0.00        0.00

        1999           SEAFMacedonia               0.00         1.66        0.00      0.00        0.00          0.33        0.00        0.00

        1997           SEF Masinomont              0.82         0.00        0.00      0.00        0.82          0.00        0.00        0.00

        1998/00/01/03  StopanskaBanka              0.00         0.00        1.95      0.00        0.00          0.00        1.78        0.00

        1997102        Teteks                      5.30         0.00        0.00      0.00        4.00          0.00        0.00        0.00
                                                                                                 ~           ~~



                                  Totalportfolio:   16.00      14.10        1.95      0.00        14.20        12.77        1.78        0.00




                                                                              Approvals PendingCommitment

                       FY Approval     Company                            Loan        Equity        Quasi           Partic.




                                            Total pendingcommitment:      0.00         0.00          0.00            0.00




                                                                     81

                                         Annex 15: Country at a Glance
                  FYRMACEDONIA: HealthSector ManagementProject



                                                                  Europe(L       Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                    Macedonia.     Central     middle-
                                                             M R      Asia      income      i Developmentdlamons
2002
Population,mid-year(mi1lions)                                 2.0       476       2,411
GNI per capita(Atlasmethod, US$)                                                                             Lifeexpectancy
                                                            1,700    2,160        1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                               3.5    1,030        3,352

Average annual growth, 199642
Population(%)                                                 0.5       0.1         1.o
Laborforce(%j                                                 1.0       0.4         1.2                                            Gross
                                                                                                                                 primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available,199642)                                                                             enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpoveriyline)
Urbanpopulation(%of totalpopulation)                          60         63          49
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                                 73         69          69
Infant mortality(per 7,000livebirihs)                         22         25          30
Child malnutrition(% ofchildren under 5)                       6                     11               Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improved water source(% ofpopulation)                        91          81
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 75+)                                          3         13
Grossprimaryenrollment (% of schml-age population)            99        102         111          -Macedonia,         FYR
    Male                                                      99        103         111          __Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                    99        101         110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1982       1992      2001        2002
GDP (US$ billions)                                            2.3        3.4        3.7
Grossdomestic investmentiGDP                                 15.6      18.3        21.9
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                             54.3      42.4        36.8                          Trade
Grossdomestic savingdGDP                                     16.6        5.2        0.5
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                    14.8      14.0         13.1

Current account balance/GDP                                  -0.8       -6.8        -8.7
InterestpaymentslGDP                                                     1.6         1.3
Total debt/GDP                                                         41.4        43.5
Total debt servicelexports                                             12.8         11.1
Presentvalueof debtlGDP                                                34.0
Presentvalue of debtiexports                                           77.2

                                                                                            ~                 Indebtedness
                                       1982-92 1992-02      2001       2002     2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                         ..     0.9       -4.5        0.7        4.1     ~     -Macedonia,         FYR
GDP per capita                              ..     0.2       -4.9        0.6        3.5                   Lowermiddle-income WOUD
Exportsofgoods and services                 ..                                                       ~
                                                   4.1      -15.7       4.4         6.5


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                  171        117
Industry                                                     398       321          297
   Manufacturing
Services                                                     432       561          582

Privateconsumption                                           639       700          767       m -
General government consumption                               195       248          228
Importsof goods and services                                 533       555          582                   -GDI            -0-GDP




(average annualgrowth)                         1982-92 1992-02                     2o02       Growthof exportsand imports(Oh)            1
Agriculture                                          ..      -0.2      -10.8        2 3      " T
Industry                                                      0 2       -64         -48
   Manufacturing                                             -1 8       -3 9        -56
Services                                                      1 9       -1 6         3 9
                                                                                              0
Privateconsumption                                            2 0      -100          8 3
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                  3 1      297           2 4    -20
Grossdomesticinvestment                              ..       3.4      -17.9         7.7                -
                                                                                                               Expons    -0-Imports
Importsof goods and services

Note:2002 data are estimates.
*The diamondsshow four key indicatorsinthe country (inbold) comparedwith its income-group average.If data are missing, the diamondwill
    be incomplete.




                                                                 82

                                                                                                   FYR Macedonia
                                        ~




PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                                                                                                      I
                                         1982   1992   2001     2002      Inflation ('4
Domestic prices                                                              -
(% change)                                                               10

Consumer prices                               1,690.7    5.5      1.9
                                              1.271.8    3.6      1.4   I l
ImplicitGDP deflator

Governmentfinance                                                         0
(% oFGDP,includesCurrent&"IS)                                                                                         I
Current revenue                                         34.2    35.9
Current budget balance                                  -2.5     -1.3               -GDP     deflator -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          -9.8   -6.3     -5.7

                                                                                                                      I
TRADE
                                         1982   1992   2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                            Exportand import levels(US$mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                             1,199   1,154    1,112   2,500
 Raw materials                                           37       35
 Food                                            144     65       75
 Manufactures                                           825      778
Totalimports(cif)                              1,198   1,688    1,963
 Food                                            112     194     246
 Fueland energy                                  127    234      241
 Capitalgoods                                     85    284      407

Exportpriceindex (1995=fOO)                              69       71
Importpriceindex (1995=100)                              79       81
Termsoftrade (1995=100)                                  87       88


BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1982   1992   2001     2002      Currentaccountbalanceto GDP (%)
(US$ millions)                                                                                                        I
~xportsof goods and services                    1,259  1,395    1,364       0
Importsof goodsand services                    1.236   1,934    2,156
Resourcebalance                                    23   -539    -792        2


Net income                                        -72    -39      -31      -4

Netcurrenttransfers                                30   343      498
                                                                           -6
Currentaccountbalance                             -19   -235    -324
                                                                           -6
Financingitems(net)                                79    318      194
Changesin netreserves                             -60    -82      131     10 -
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)               60   775       735
Conversionrate (DEC, loca!fUS$)                   5.1   68.0     64.4

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1982   1992   2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                           1 Composition  of2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed                    1,423    1,613
  IBRD                                                   124      138
  IDA                                                   254       293    I                    64    138

Totaldebt service                                        194      167
  IBRD                                                    12       13
  IDA                                                      2        2

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Offcial grants
  Gffkialcreditors                                       -27      -22
  Privatecreditors                                       23        25
  Foreigndirect investment                              442        77
  Portfolioequity                                          0        1

World Bank program
  Commitments                                             24       20    IA-IERD                          E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                          23        34    I 6 . IDA    D Othermultilateml
                                                                                        -                 F Private
                                                                                                             --
  Principalrepayments                                      4        6    IC-iMF                           G Short-term
                                                                                                              -
  Netflows                                                19       28
  Interestpayments                                                  9
  Nettransfers                                            i10o     19




                                                      83


+MAPSECTION


