                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 78210




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

             FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                             (P086670)


                               September 25, 2013




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                              ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Macedonian Dinar

2003                     US$1.00               MKD54.32
2004                     US$1.00               MKD49.41
2005                     US$1.00               MKD49.28
2006                     US$1.00               MKD48.80
2007                     US$1.00               MKD44.72
2008                     US$1.00               MKD41.86
2009                     US$1.00               MKD44.10
2010                     US$1.00               MKD46.48


Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPS   Country Partnership Strategy
DfID  Department for International Development
DRG   Diagnosis-related group
EU    European Union
HIF   Health Insurance Fund
HSMP Health Sector Management Project
HSTP Health Sector Transition Project
ICB   International competitive bidding
ICR   Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDF   Institutional Development Fund
IEG   Independent Evaluation Group
IHIS  Integrated health information system
IMF   International Monetary Fund
IT    Information technology
M&E Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH Ministry of Health
NGO Non-Governmental Organization
NPV   Net present value
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PAU   Policy Analysis Unit
PCU   Project Coordination Unit
PDPL Programmatic Development Policy Loan
PPAR Project Performance Assessment Report
PSMAL Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan
TTL   Task Team Leader



Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 – December 31


Director-General, Independent Evaluation             :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation               :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                :   Mr. Mark Sundberg
Task Manager                                         :   Ms. Susan Ann Caceres
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and Relevance ................................................................................. 5
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 8
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 11
       Objective 1 ................................................................................................................ 11
       Objective 2 ................................................................................................................ 20
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 24
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 26
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 26
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 26
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 27
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 29
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 30
7. Lessons and Conclusions .............................................................................................. 31
References ......................................................................................................................... 33
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 37
Annex B. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 41
Annex C. Tables................................................................................................................ 43


Tables
Table 1. Prior, Concurrent, and Current Related Bank Operations .................................... 9
Table 2. Health Sector Policies and Strategies Developed with Project Support ............. 12
Table 3. Persons Insured by Health Insurance Fund, 2006-2011 ..................................... 18
Table 4. Average Length of Stay and Hospital Beds/1,000 Population, All Hospitals,
1991- 2010 ........................................................................................................................ 23
Table 5. Distribution of HIF Payments by Type of Provider (listed as percentage of total
HIF allocations to providers), 2003-2011 ......................................................................... 23
Table 6. HSMP Outcome Indicators ................................................................................. 43
This report was prepared by Judyth L. Twigg, who assessed the project in June of 2012. The report was
peer reviewed by Bjorn Ekman and panel reviewed by Robert Lacey. Viktoriya Yevsyeyeva and Richard
Kraus provided administrative support.
                                                               iv


Table 7. HSMP Output/Intermediate Outcome Indicators ............................................... 44

Figures
Figure 1. Total Value of Prescription Drugs Covered by HIF, Billions of Macedonian
Dinars, 2006-2011............................................................................................................. 14
Figure 2. Number of Prescriptions Covered by HIF, 2003-2011 ..................................... 15
Figure 3. HIF Revenue and Expenditure, 2006-2011 ....................................................... 17
                                                               v


Principal Ratings
                                        ICR*                         ICR Review*                            PPAR
Outcome                     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to
Development                          Moderate                          Moderate                           Moderate
Outcome
Bank Performance            Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower
                            Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible

Project                 Task Manager/Leader                     Sector Manager                      Country Director
Appraisal                     Jan Bultman                       Armin H. Fidler                 Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Completion                  Nedim Jaganjac                         Abdo Yazbeck                       Jane Armitage
                                                           vi


            IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in
                                         independent evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
     Outcome:The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently.The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance.Efficiency is the extent
to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital and
benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations.Possible ratings for Outcome:Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome:The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected
outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome:High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of
supervision.Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance:Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                           vii


Preface
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Health Sector
Management Project in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.

A Loan (IBRD-47330-MK) was approved on May 13, 2004 for an amount of US$ 10
million equivalent. The project closed on December 31, 2010, eighteen months after the
scheduled closure date, primarily to allow additional time for the procurement of
computer hardware to support the development of an integrated health management
information system. The project was restructured on June 11, 2009, to extend the closing
date by one year to June 30, 2010, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement on June 8,
2010 further extended the closing date by another six months. The project’s objectives
were not revised.

This report presents findings from the project based on review of project documents, the
Implementation Completion and Results Report, aides-memoire and supervision reports,
and other relevant material. A mission to Macedonia was undertaken by Judyth Twigg
(consultant) in June 2012, during which interviews were conducted with government
officials, Bank staff in Washington and Macedonia, health sector personnel, beneficiaries,
and other involved persons. IEG gratefully acknowledges all those who made time for
interviews and provided documents and information, and especially expresses its thanks
to Jasminka-Sopova, who provided exemplary logistical and administrative support in
Skopje.

The report aims, first, to serve an accountability purpose by evaluating whether the
operation achieved its intended outcome. Second, the report draws lessons to inform
future health sector reform projects. Third, the assessment will contribute to a
forthcoming IEG evaluation of the World Bank Group’s activities related to health
financing reform.

Following standard IEG procedures, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia were
invited to comment on the draft PPAR. No comments were received.
                                              ix


Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report reviews the experience and lessons from the
Health Sector Management Project (2004-2010) in the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia. The project supported reforms aimed at increasing capacity and efficiency
across the system of financing and delivery of health care.

At appraisal, Macedonia was recovering from brief but intense armed conflict in 2001
between ethnic insurgents and government security forces. The fighting ended with an
agreement that satisfied local communities and protected minority rights. Given the
relatively short time to build institutions, a number of processes are still evolving in this
young democracy. There has been frequent change of governments, including high turnover
of health ministers. European Union (EU) accession is the anchor of reform in nearly every
area of government and public services.

Macedonia’s health status is similar to other countries in southeastern Europe, but lags
behind EU countries. The same is true for health spending. A single payer, the Health
Insurance Fund (HIF), contracts with public and private providers to deliver health services.
A comprehensive benefits package is universally covered through social insurance. Prior to
the project, the financial management capacity of the HIF was weak, and provider payment
mechanisms, largely fee-for-service, were major cost drivers and sources of inefficiency.
Hospitals were overused and overstaffed, and primary care was underdeveloped. The
benefits package was generous compared to available HIF revenues and contributed to
problems of implicit rationing and informal payments.

The objectives of the Health Sector Management Project, financed by an International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development loan of US$ 10 million equivalent, were to “upgrade
the Ministry of Health’s (MOH’s) and Health Insurance Fund’s capacity to formulate and
effectively implement health policies, and to develop and implement an efficient scheme of
restructuring of hospital services, with an emphasis on developing day-care services and
shifting to primary care.” These objectives were to be achieved through activities intended to
shift the MOH from day-to-day administrative functions to priority setting, policy making,
and monitoring and evaluation, and to build the HIF’s capacity in the core functions of
revenue collection, Fund management, and purchasing. Attention was also paid to
improvements in service delivery through the introduction of new management models,
development of skill sets necessary to implement new contracting schemes, and some
improvements in infrastructure of health care facilities through a grants program.

Concurrently with the project, the Bank financed a series of three Programmatic
Development Policy Loans in 2005-2006, 2007, and 2008, and another Development Policy
Loan Series from 2009-2011. One of the main objectives of the first PDPL series was to
improve the financial management, transparency, and governance of the HIF and public
health institutions, including procurement of medicines. The 2009-2011 operation included
reforms to create a treasury function within the HIF to enhance financial management and
control in the health sector. The HSMP is viewed by stakeholders as an example of sector
investments complementing a broader reform agenda supported by adjustment operations,
                                               x


with the latter acting as an incentive for the government to implement the overall health
strategy. In addition, parallel technical assistance during the project was provided through
Dutch Trust Funds. The project spent a relatively small amount of money compared with
these other interventions, but it is widely acknowledged that the project’s investments
realized important synergies with the policy loans, and that overall the Bank has been an
important impetus for health reform before, during, and after the project period.

The project’s outcome was moderately satisfactory. Its objectives were substantially relevant
to country conditions at the time of appraisal, and to the Bank’s current Country Partnership
Strategy. Project design was also substantially relevant, with a solid results chain logically
connecting development objectives to expected outcomes and project activities. The MOH’s
and HIF’s institutional capacities were only modestly improved, but the second objective to
restructure hospital services was substantially achieved. Economic analyses show that the
project’s net benefits far outweighed its costs in the areas of revenue collection and
expenditure management, indicating substantial efficiency. The risk to development
outcome is moderate, with financial risk stemming from continuing arrears among health
providers and the HIF, and political risk linked to uncertainty about commitment to reform in
a fluctuating political environment. The Bank’s performance was moderately satisfactory.
Project design was strong, but it did not wholly anticipate potential difficulties with some
political and institutional arrangements that later proved problematic. Intensive supervision
was required, particularly to guide a difficult process of procurement, testing, and delivery of
information technology equipment prior to closing. Government performance was also
moderately satisfactory. HIF commitment and capacity, in particular, improved dramatically
during implementation, and the Project Coordination Unit’s component coordinators
assumed strong and effective responsibility for implementation and continuity.

The preparation and implementation experience of the project yields the following lessons:

Close coordination of policy lending and investment lending can greatly facilitate
achievement of reforms. In this case, health reforms supported by the project and health
aspects of the adjustment operations were supervised closely by the same health team,
ensuring that policy dialogue with the government was consistent and linked to the overall
macro-level dialogue between the government and the Bank. Importantly, although the
policy lending included reforms across several sectors, there was a sustained sector focus on
health that was central to achieving important synergies with the investment operations.

Political obstacles can be overcome with effective planning and consultation – but will
be insurmountable otherwise. An appropriate political enabling environment and incentive
structure, achieved through careful political economy analysis and planning, were crucial for
the success of reforms supporting family medicine and diagnosis-related groups. Hospital
rationalization and reform of the basic benefits package, however, have encountered
difficulties in the face of political obstacles. Furthermore, where possible, sheltering project
implementation from politics allows focus on implementation and appropriate attention to
desired outcomes. In this project, the appointment of the deputy prime minister as project
coordinator resulted in frequent personnel turnover (as ministers changed) and resultant
delays in project activities. The need for independent, stable project management trumps any
                                                xi


benefits that may accrue from presumed proximity to the health minister. The project
manager should be chosen by agreement between the Bank and the MOH as a bridge person,
someone with political access but who is not reporting and subject to the MOH on a daily
basis.

Information technology (IT) components of health sector reform frequently encounter
delays, whose risk can be mitigated through careful planning and flexibility. IT
components should begin implementation as soon as possible, so that the technology keeps
pace with the other project elements it is supporting, and it should be sufficiently flexible to
adapt to projects as they evolve. Ideally, Bank teams should directly incorporate IT experts
to prevent delays and inefficiencies.

Qualified regional experts can be extremely effective as consultants and trainers.
Family medicine and other experts from Slovenia and other former Yugoslav countries, with
their in-depth local knowledge, provided a valuable complement to Western subject-matter
experts. These consultants also contributed important demonstration effects of successful
reform in other parts of the region.


                                                                       Caroline Heider
                                                                       Director-General
                                                                          Evaluation
                                               1


1. Background and Context
1.1     The Former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) of Macedonia, which gained independence in
1991, is a landlocked country of around two million people. Ethnically diverse, it contains
about 65 percent Macedonians, 25 percent Albanians, 4 percent Turks, and nearly 3 percent
Roma. The country remained largely peaceful during the wars following the dissolution of
Yugoslavia in the 1990s. Conflict between extreme ethnic Albanian armed groups and FYR
Macedonian security forces broke out in March 2001, but proactive international intervention
helped end the fighting after five months with both sides agreeing to terms under what has
become known as the Ohrid Framework Agreement. The main elements of this Agreement
provided for greater devolution of political authority to local communities, equitable
representation of minorities in public administration, and mechanisms to protect minorities’
interests in the legislative process (World Bank 2010). Given the relatively short time to
build institutions, a number of processes are still evolving in this young democracy. Since
independence, Macedonia has seen frequent changes of prime minister and many different
compositions of government, including high turnover of health ministers. European Union
(EU) accession continues to be highly popular and desirable, remaining the anchor of reform
in nearly every area of government and public services.

1.2     The health status of Macedonia’s population is similar to the other countries of
southeastern Europe, but lags behind European Union countries. Overall, health indicators
have steadily improved since independence. Life expectancy at birth, for example, has
increased from 72 years in 1991 to 74.8 years in 2011, although it remains five years lower
than the EU-27 average of 79.7 in 2011. The disease prevalence pattern is very similar to
that of other EU countries, with non-communicable disease the most prominent cause of
morbidity and mortality in the country (World Bank 2009c). Population aging is becoming
evident, with the segment of the population over age 65 increasing from 10 percent in 2000
to 12 percent in 2011 (World Development Indicators).

1.3     Uptake of perinatal and post-natal interventions, particularly immunization coverage,
is high. Care by trained staff is almost universal, with 98.8 percent of women in 2010
receiving care at least once during pregnancy and 99.8 percent of births involving a skilled
attendant (World Development Indicators). Despite a near halving of infant mortality
between 2000 and 2011 (from 14.3 to 8.7/1,000) due to a number of effective policy
interventions, infant and perinatal mortality remain persistently high, correlating with
poverty, education level of the mother, residence in a rural area, low service utilization, and
ethnicity (with limited access among the Roma population) (World Bank 2009c). Data from
2005 indicate that about 17 percent of Roma women delivered their babies with the help only
of a family member or friend; only about 16 percent of Roma infants were correctly fed; and
about 25 percent of Roma infants were diagnosed with anemia due to substitution of less
valuable nutrition for breast feeding (World Bank 2009c).

1.4    After the Second World War and the establishment of the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia, a highly decentralized health system was put in place, with responsibility for
the provision of health care set at the municipal level. Accordingly, 30 municipalities owned
and operated health facilities offering care at the primary, secondary, and tertiary levels
                                               2


(Center for Research and Policy Making 2006). This system led to significant oversupply
and duplication of services, and it did not promote the functional separation of the different
levels of care. Financing was, for the most part, local, with central coordination only for
projects requiring large-scale capital investments (Gjorgjev 2006). Owing to the strong
independence of the municipalities with regard to both decision-making and financial
management, the influence of the central government on the overall development of health
care at the local level was minor.

1.5     At independence, Macedonia inherited from Yugoslavia a large and well-established
health care system with good geographic and financial accessibility, health insurance
covering nearly the entire population, educated staff, good control of infectious disease, and
almost full coverage of the population with a national immunization program (Kjosev and
Nedanovski 2008). An August 1991 Law on Health Care established the organizational
structure of the system, with the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the government in charge of
health policy formulation and implementation, system operation, and stewardship, the Health
Insurance Fund (HIF, established in 2000) responsible for the collection and management of
funds, and health care institutions responsible for service delivery. The Ministries of Health
and Finance rotate chairmanship of an HIF Board of Directors. Doctors’, dentists’ and
pharmacists’ chambers are responsible for licensing health professionals, and medical
associations are responsible for drawing up clinical guidelines (Gjorgjev 2006).

1.6      There is a purchaser-provider split in the system, with the single payer, the HIF,
contracting with public and private providers to deliver health services. Reflecting the
comprehensive nature of the benefits package financed through social insurance, there is
little scope for voluntary health insurance despite provisions in the Health Insurance Law
making it possible (World Bank 2007). The HIF pools health insurance contributions from
the payroll, transfers from the central budget, and (since 2003) co-payments, giving providers
little incentive to collect co-payments and limiting their impact on the behavior of consumers
and providers. The HIF is responsible for 90 percent of government health expenditures.
Health insurance contributions are paid at a statutory rate of 7.5 percent of gross wage.
Financial management capacity within the HIF was weak during its first decade, with
payments not matching invoices, improper write-offs, and poor accounting and recording of
transactions. Provider payment mechanisms have been major cost drivers in the system. In
2004, a transition was made from a fee-for-service model to one that bases hospital budgets
on the average needs of the preceding three years combined with projections of types and
volumes of services. However, effective incentives for efficiency remained scarce, as have
cost-effective models of replacing inpatient care with appropriate outpatient alternatives (day
surgeries, etc.). The benefits package is generous compared to available HIF revenues and
has contributed to problems of implicit rationing and informal payments (Kjosev and
Nedanovski 2008).

1.7     Health care is provided through an extensive network of health care organizations, on
three levels: primary, secondary, and tertiary. Health care institutions cover the country’s
territory relatively evenly, making it possible for around 90 percent of the population to
access health services in less than 30 minutes (Kjosev and Nedanovski 2008). Hospital
health care is delivered by 67 public hospitals, specialized hospitals, institutes, and
specialized departments (clinics) in the Skopje Clinical Center, as well as by four private
                                                3


hospitals. There is an outflow of qualified medical personnel from public to private
institutions (WHO 2011); if a private facility is not contracted with the HIF, costs for users
are significant.

1.8      While coverage is extensive, health care services have been characterized by
overprovision, inefficiency, and duplication of services, capacity, and equipment, largely due
to the legacy of the highly decentralized Yugoslav system. There has been over-production
and under-utilization of personnel, over-employment in hospitals, obsolete equipment, lack
of medicines, and a general focus on hospital-based care rather than primary and preventive
services. Some tertiary-level institutions also provide secondary care, and the system has not
implemented the necessary regulatory framework to ensure proper gatekeeping and referral
practices.

1.9    There has been an oversupply of medical personnel, especially in the hospital sector,
contributing to high fixed costs. Overstaffing reflects generous norms under previous
systems, targeting one physician per 1,000 inhabitants. The sector has had difficulty
employing all qualified personnel, resulting in unemployment among doctors and nurses
(European Commission 2007). Health facilities still have flexibility in hiring and firing, and
labor unions are strong, contributing to high fixed costs and limited opportunity for hospital
managers to influence their input mix. Labor rigidities have been one of the key obstacles to
introducing incentive-based payment systems at the hospital level (World Bank 2007).

1.10 Quality of care is widely perceived to be low, with wages and salaries absorbing most
of the health budget, and few systemic incentives to focus on treatment outcomes (European
Commission 2007). A 1997 study of the quality of clinical care in the United States and
Macedonia showed wide variance among Macedonian physicians, but with some physicians
in Macedonia performing at a standard comparable to that of their American counterparts
(Peabody 2004). However, a 2005 survey of Macedonian primary care physicians and
patients found the physicians inclined to refer patients to a higher level of care due to a
deficit of diagnostic tools, poor conditions in their facilities, compliance with patients’
requests for referral, and their own general perceptions that better treatment is available at the
secondary or tertiary level (Center for Research and Policy Making 2006). Furthermore,
most primary care physicians did not understand why there should be an effort to treat
patients at their level rather than referred elsewhere, and fully one-third of specialists viewed
primary care only as a referral point. Only 29 percent of patients in this study expected
effective medical advice or therapy to be received at the primary care level.

1.11 Total health expenditure as a percentage of GDP was 6.8 percent in 2002, rising to
7.1 percent in 2011. This represents a significantly lower figure than that of most of the
other ex-Yugoslav countries and the EU: the EU-27 average in 2010 was 9.0 percent, and
Slovenia spent 9.4 percent, Serbia 10.4 percent, Boznia-Herzegovina 11.1 percent, and
Croatia 7.8 percent. Average spending per capita on health care was $317 in 2011. Public
spending on health care represents 4.7 percent of GDP, compared to 5 percent in new EU
member states. Out-of-pocket payments, both formal and informal, have decreased from
about 43 percent of total health spending in 2000 to about 36 percent in 2011 (World
Development Indicators).
                                               4


1.12 High unemployment and contribution evasion, together with relatively low
contribution rates, have made it necessary for the HIF to find additional sources of revenue.
These have included general budget transfers and out-of-pocket payments (World Bank
2007). Formal co-payments are made by insured people for the use of health services and
drugs at all levels of care, with a list specifying the services and drugs concerned (Donev
1999). The maximum co-pay is set at 20 percent of the total cost of the service or drug, in
inverse proportion to the price (with the co-pay for more expensive services set at a lower
percentage of the cost, and vice versa) (Gjorgjev 2006). Lower co-pays, special conditions,
and exemptions apply for those with low income, children and youth, and pensioners.
Medical exams by a general practitioner, some other preventive programs, and emergency
services are exempt. The low effective level of official co-payments (averaging about one-
half of statutory requirements) -- unsurprising given that health institutions have little
incentive to collect these payments and hand them over to the HIF -- has limited their
effectiveness in curbing demand for health services and is bringing little revenue to the HIF.
Revenues from co-payments amount to 3-4 percent of HIF revenues, compared with 7-10
percent in most West European countries (World Bank 2007).

1.13 Beginning in the mid-1990s, rising costs and consumer expectations, the availability
of new drugs and technologies, and insufficient volumes of revenue from the collection of
contributions led to the accumulation of significant deficits in the HIF. Payments to
providers were made against costs of inputs (wages, consumables, utilities) rather than
services provided, with no incentives for efficiency and quality of care. On the input side,
the shift to dependence on payroll taxes left the health system vulnerable to the subsequent
shrinking of formal sector employment. Deficits therefore stemmed from a guaranteed
package of care more comprehensive than the country could afford; excessive numbers of
doctors, dentists, and support staff; high prices and little volume control over prescription
drugs; and an inefficient and fragmented network of health institutions. By 1998, the
shortfall in the HIF was equivalent to 19 percent of revenues (World Bank 2002). In 2004,
the HIF was 84 million Euros in arrears, with 78 percent of that attributable to debts owed to
suppliers of drugs, medical devices, and consumables. At least a share of rising health care
costs was shifted to patients in the form of increased out-of-pocket payments (World Bank
2002).

1.14 In 2004, a new budgeting system for hospitals was introduced, basing payments on
funding for the preceding three years as well as projected types and volumes of services. The
new payment mechanism was intended to stop the growth of hospital debt and generate
performance accountability by linking payment to services actually provided within a global
budgeting framework. However, efficiency gains in individual health care institutions were
hampered by the lack of empowerment of facilities to provide financial incentives to staff
(related to quality or quantity of care provided), or to make human resource planning
decisions. As a result, there were still no financial incentives for individual physicians to
deliver a greater volume of work, or to deliver more efficient or better quality services. In
addition, approaches to, and examples of, more cost-effective means of ambulatory care
delivery at the secondary care level, such as day surgery, day care for the elderly and
chronically ill, rehabilitation programs, and the like, were scarce. There was also
underinvestment in technologies to support some of the more cost-effective treatment
regimes, such as minimally invasive surgery (Gjorgjev 2006).
                                                5


1.15 The Bank’s involvement in the Macedonian health sector began with the Health
Sector Transition Project (HSTP, US$ 17.1 million, 1996-2002), whose objectives were: (i)
to improve the health of the population by enhancing the quality of basic health services; and
(ii) to support an initial phase of policy reforms designed to increase cost-effectiveness, fiscal
sustainability, and patient choice within the health system. Its components included activities
to build capacity for policy making and health system management, to strengthen primary
health care and health promotion with a focus on rural areas, and to create a more
competitive pharmaceutical market to help reduce the cost of essential drugs (World Bank
2003). The preparation and implementation experience of the HSTP offered key lessons
about the need for realistic assessment of the political economy environment for project
implementation and the challenges inherent in investments in complex technical systems.

2. Objectives, Design, and Relevance
2.1     Objectives. The objectives of the Health Sector Management Project (HSMP) were
to assist the Borrower to: (i) upgrade the Ministry of Health’s (MOH’s) and Health Insurance
Fund’s (HIF’s) capacity to formulate and effectively implement health policies, health
insurance, financial management, and contracting of providers; and (ii) develop and
implement an efficient scheme of restructuring of hospital services, with emphasis on
developing day-care services and shifting to primary care.

2.2     Relevance of objectives is rated Substantial. At the time of appraisal, the
Government was committed to implementing reforms to facilitate economic growth, poverty
reduction, and social stability. Quality of health services was perceived to be poor,
particularly for primary care and in rural areas. Furthermore, revenue shortfalls and poor
expenditure management had contributed to persistent cash deficits in the HIF. Inadequate
provider payment systems that reimbursed based on inputs were driving up costs, and the
benefits package was too generous in relation to HIF revenues. A functional review of the
MOH prior to appraisal showed that there was an urgent need to realign its roles and
functions toward the core functions of policy formulation and implementation, priority
setting, monitoring health system performance, and coordination.

2.3      Since the Health Insurance Fund became independent of the Ministry of Health in
2000, there had been fragmentation of positions between the two agencies, duplication of
effort (including funding of some vertical health programs), and inconsistency in approaches
to policy (Dredge 2005). The MOH was under-resourced and did not have the capacity to
undertake its policymaking and oversight functions. It was unable to perform the
stewardship role explicit in the duties of a health ministry, and it did not have the capacity to
evaluate and quantify policy options. It similarly was not resourced to oversee the financial
and functional operation of the HIF, nor could it hold the HIF accountable for its
performance.

2.4     The Government’s development program for 2008-2012, “Rebirth in 100 Steps,” still
identifies better education and health systems as essential preconditions for achieving the
core goal of faster, sustainable growth as the means to create jobs and improve living
standards (World Bank 2010).Achieving cost containment in the health sector without
                                              6


sacrificing quality and equal access remains a key element of the Government’s public
expenditure management program.

2.5     The Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Macedonia (2011-2014)
notescritical challenges facing health sector outcomes, sustainability, and efficiency, citing
strengthening of the health financing system as one of the keys to consolidating
macroeconomic stability (World Bank 2010). Improving health outcomes is one of the
central planks of the Strategy’s Principles of Engagement, “More Inclusive Growth:
Employability and Social Protection.” With health care not specifically included in the EU
acquiscommunitaire, the value of continued Bank engagement in a sector where it has built
relationships and important country knowledge is heightened. The 2011-2014 CPS identifies
the health sector as a target for possible additional investment lending in FY 2013 or 2014
(World Bank 2010).

2.6    Design. The project contained four components:

(1) Policy Formulation and Implementation (appraised costs, US$ 1.00 million; actual
costs, US$ 2.42 million), was intended to shift the MOH from day-to-day administration
functions to priority setting, policy making, and monitoring and evaluation. Its activities
were to include development of health sector policy and strategy for overall health policy
formulation, health management information system development, quality improvement in
health systems provision, primary health care, privatization of health services delivery, and
streamlining of pharmaceuticals registration and generic substitution provision; strengthening
of the MOH’s and HIF’s capacity to develop and implement public relations and
communications activities related to health reforms; and capacity-building in the MOH for
budget formulation and monitoring, including providing guidelines to the HIF and other
health institutions in budget formulation.

(2) HIF Governance and Management Strengthening (appraised costs US$ 3.35 million;
actual costs, US$ 1.57 million), was intended to implement positive changes in various core
HIF functions such as revenue collection, HIF management, and purchasing, in order to
improve fiscal discipline, transparency, and effectiveness of service provision. Its activities
were to include improvement of revenue collection and of eligibility criteria for health
insurance coverage for different categories of beneficiaries, including information technology
upgrading; strengthening of the HIF’s management capacity, including improving its
Management Board functioning and development of oversight functions, its financial
management and administration practices, its management information systems, and its
general management at the central office and regional branches; and strengthening the HIF’s
purchasing functions in order to reduce costs of goods and services to be purchased,
including design and implementation of new payments models and contracts, improvement
of drug needs assessment and of drug supply use and management, and improvement of drug
procurement processes.

(3) Service Delivery Improvement (appraised costs, US$ 5.12 million; actual costs, US$
5.88 million), was to improve the quality and efficiency of health care providers by
supporting development of staff skills, introduction of new management models and
instruments, and essential upgrades of units selected to implement well-defined subprojects.
                                               7


Its activities were to include strengthening of management for hospitals and primary health
care providers, including development of new skills and instruments required for the
implementation of new HIF contracting schemes, and development of a basic electronic
registry; and establishment of a grant facility to provide grants to eligible health service
providers to support the implementation of new business plans and other activities designed
to improve service quality and efficiency, including infrastructure of health care facilities.

(4) Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation (appraised costs, US$ 1.17 million;
actual costs, US$ 1.70 million), was to strengthen MOH and HIF capacity for project
management, monitoring, and evaluation, including audit, procurement, and financial
management activities, and financing of Project Coordination Unit (PCU) operating costs.

2.7      Relevance of Design is also rated Substantial. The Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) contains a clear results chain linking project activities (by component and
subcomponent) to expected results, expressed in terms of outcome indicators, and each link
in this results chain is plausible and well explained. The activities in Component 1 would
have plausibly been expected to lead directly to achievement of the first objective, with
capacity-building activities across a range of actors intended to lead to more effective policy
and policy-making. Component 1’s inclusion of activities related to public relations and
communications was intended to ensure that affected populations would understand the
content of new policies as well as behavior changes and trade-offs that would be anticipated.
The activities in the second and third components were linked, with service delivery
enhancement activities under Component 3 intended to give health care providers the tools
necessary to respond to new incentives created as the HIF implemented new payment and
contract models under Component 2. The lack of specific emphasis on development of day-
care services and shifting to primary care in Components 2 and 3, however, is a shortcoming;
the stress on overall capacity-building and achievement of greater efficiencies in the delivery
of health services would not necessarily lead directly to investments in day-care services (as
cited in the objectives).

2.8     M&E design included thirteen outcome indicators and nine intermediate outcome
indicators. These appropriately included outcome measures related to the first objective
regarding not merely formulation and adoption of new policy, but also effective
implementation of these policies (increase in HIF revenue and contributors, reduction in
prescription drugs purchased in non-HIF-contracted pharmacies, adherence to new clinical
guidelines). For the second objective, standard indicators were included to measure
increased efficiency of delivery of health services, including reduced average length of
hospital stay, decreased referrals to inpatient care, and increases in the number of outpatient
surgeries. A Policy Analysis Unit was to be created in the MOH, to work together with
project staff to monitor performance indicators for the duration of the project, establish a plan
for M&E activities of the MOH, and agree with the Bank on evaluation studies to be
conducted prior to the completion of the project. This Unit was to be responsible for
monitoring the impact of health reform on the health status of the population and on the
financial viability of the sector.

2.9   Implementation arrangements. The MOH was to be responsible for overall project
management and implementation. Staff from the MOH and HIF were to be appointed as
                                               8


Project Coordinators, with consultants in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) acting as
Assistant Coordinators. In practice, the Project Coordinators were not able to devote
adequate time to the project due to their responsibilities in their respective institutions, and
therefore the consultants in the PCU functioned as de facto Component Coordinators. In
addition, the Deputy Minister of Health was assigned to be the Project Principal Coordinator,
allocating 20 percent of his time to oversee the work of the PCU. This also proved to be
unworkable due to time constraints. In early 2006, the Minister of Health agreed to recruit a
Chief Operating Officer to help deal with day-to-day issues of implementation, but this did
not take place.

3. Implementation
3.1    There were four amendments to the Loan Agreement, three of which reallocated
funds among components. The most substantial of these reallocations stemmed from a
government decision to finance development of software for the Integrated Health
Management Information System with its own funds, shifting project resources initially
intended for this purpose to consultancy services, training, and operating costs. The
government made US$ 2.06 million of a planned US$ 1.34 million contribution.

3.2     The closing date was extended twice. The first extension, from June 30, 2009 to June
30, 2010, was to allow time for procurement of hardware for the health information system
and for activities related to the strengthening of primary care and introduction of diagnosis-
related groups in hospitals. The second extension, from June 30, 2010 to December 31,
2010, allowed for completion of delivery, installation, configuration, and testing of computer
hardware.

3.3      Concurrent operations. The precursor Health Sector Transition Project provided the
institutional underpinning for the implementation of health reforms under the Public Sector
Management Adjustment Loan 2 (PSMAL, US$ 30 million, 2004-2005), which included
specific reforms in the health sector to improve the internal control system of the HIF and the
procurement of pharmaceuticals(Table 1). Concurrently with the Health Sector
Management Project, the Bank financed a series of three Programmatic Development Policy
Loans: PDPL I (2005-2006, planned US$ 30 million; actual US$ 29.3 million); PDPL II
(2007, planned US$ 30 million; actual 34.1 million); and PDPL III (2008, planned US$ 25
million; actual, US$ 21.1 million); and a First Programmatic Development Policy Loan
(2009-2011, US$ 30.0 million). One of the main objectives of the first PDPL series was to
improve the financial management, transparency, and governance of the HIF and public
health institutions, including procurement of medicines. The Health Insurance Law was
amended to streamline the operations, decision-making, and transparency of the Board of
Directors of the HIF, and its implementation capacity and independence from the MOH was
improved. A comprehensive National Health Strategy was developed to guide policy-
making in the sector over the long term. A Health Provider Law was drafted, but did not
advance and was largely abandoned. The 2009-2011 operation included reforms to create a
treasury function within the HIF to enhance financial management and control in the health
sector. The HSMP is viewed by stakeholders as an example of sector investments
                                                 9


complementing a broader reform agenda supported by adjustment operations, with the latter
offering incentives to the government to implement the overall health strategy.

Table 1. Prior, Concurrent, and Current Related Bank Operations
                            Amount
    Operation       Dates    (US$                 Health-Related Objectives/Policy Areas
                            millions)
                                        To improve the health of the population by enhancing the
Health Sector      1996-                quality of basic health services; and to support an initial
                              17.1
Transition Project 2002                 phase of policy reforms to increase cost-effectiveness, fiscal
                                        sustainability, and patient choice within the health system.
                                        Five major areas of reform (budget formulation, budget
                                        execution, audit, procurement, and civil service), plus
                                        specific reforms in the health sector, including
Public Sector                           improvements in the internal control system of the Health
Management          2004-               Insurance Fund and in the procurement of pharmaceuticals.
                              30.0
Adjustment Loan     2005                To strengthen incentives for the efficient operation of public
2                                       hospitals, the operation also supported revisions in the
                                        legislation governing the financial relationship between the
                                        HIF and individual hospitals, as well as the introduction of
                                        performance contracts for at least seventeen such facilities.
                                        Reforms to improve transparency, management, and
Programmatic                            governance of the Health Insurance Fund by strengthening
Development         2005-               HIF governance and the health policy making environment,
                              85.0
Policy Loan         2009                and improving budget planning and control, financial
(PDPL) 1, 2, 3                          management, and procurement in the HIF, Ministry of
                                        Health, and health care institutions.
                                        To manage the impact of the global crisis by maintaining a
                                        sound macroeconomic and fiscal framework; to cushion the
First                                   impact on the poor and vulnerable by enhancing social
Programmatic        2009-               protection systems; and to strengthen the resilience of the
                              30.0
Development         2011                financial sector by addressing potential vulnerabilities.
Policy Loan                             Included reforms to create a well-functioning treasury
                                        function within the HIF to enhance financial management
                                        and control in the health sector.
                                        To strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of the
                                        country’s safety net through the introduction of conditional
                                        cash transfers, and improvements in the administration,
                                        oversight, monitoring, and evaluation of social assistance
Conditional Cash    2010-
                              25.0      transfers. Support for the implementation of a CCT program
Transfers Project   2014
                                        for poor families with children in secondary education, and
                                        support for identification, development, and implementation
                                        of possible extensions to the CCT model in health, labor,
                                        and/or other levels of education.
                                        To strengthen sustainability of public finances and
Policy Based
                    2011     134.9      functioning of labor markets, improve performance of social
Guarantee
                                        protection, and strengthen resilience of the financial sector.
                                                         10


                                    Amount
     Operation              Dates    (US$                 Health-Related Objectives/Policy Areas
                                    millions)
                                                Included actions to de-link provision of free health insurance
                                                to registration as unemployed and introduce an income-
                                                based test for provision of free health insurance; and for the
                                                HIF to effectively regulate the operations of the new Health
                                                Single Treasury Account covering all public health
                                                institutions.
                                                To strengthen public financial management, improve the
                                                efficiency of spending and service provision in the health
                                                sector, and strengthen social protection and inclusion.
                                                Included prior actions aimed at decreasing wholesale prices
Public
                                                for drugs by improving the methodology for reference
Expenditure
                            2012     201.5      pricing, decreasing prices for some medical devices by
Policy Based
                                                introducing centralized procurement, and improving service
Guarantee
                                                provision in underserved areas by introducing standards of
                                                health staff coverage based on population density, intended
                                                to limit new service provision in well-served areas and shift
                                                to under-served areas.
Source: Project Documents


3.4     Political factors. Four changes in ministers of health and similarly frequent changes
among other senior MOH officials compromised continuity. Political commitment and
project ownership were affected, resulting in implementation delays. Over time, the MOH
has placed less priority on implementation of agreed strategic priorities and more on realizing
politically attractive big-ticket equipment purchases and construction contracts. Jockeying
among political parties and interest group-based struggles over policy and resources have
politicized and obstructed reform (Dimeski 2011). As a result, strategy does not guide
decision-making to an optimal degree.

3.5     Implementation of M&E. While the Policy Analysis Unit played some role in
monitoring indicators during early stages of project implementation, through most of the
project period the PCU component coordinators took the lead in collecting and reporting
data. Also, under the project, the HIF introduced a set of key performance indicators for
monitoring of service provision in primary, secondary, and tertiary care, including a
methodology for collecting data for monitoring, review, and assessment. Ten indicators were
agreed upon, and regional institutes of public health were put in charge of completion of
forms and transcription of collected data into a database. These indicators have formed an
integral part of every contract between the HIF and health care institutions since 2007.

3.6     Safeguards compliance. The project was classified as Category “C” for
environmental assessment purposes. The loan did not finance civil works as a category of
expenditure. However, through the grant facility under Component 3, the project financed a
number of minor rehabilitation-type works in hospitals and other health institutions. None of
these renovations triggered environmental safeguard policies. The project did not finance
goods requiring a medical waste management plan.
                                              11


3.7     Fiduciary compliance. Until mid-2006, financial management arrangements,
including accounting, reporting, budgeting and planning, internal controls, and funds flow
were satisfactory. Between the end of 2006 and mid-2007, shortcomings began to appear,
including accounting discrepancies, consequent inaccuracies in quarterly financial reports,
and in some cases, lack of application of key internal controls and procedures. By early
2008, most of these problems were resolved, but several issues resurfaced again in early
2009. Significant improvement was observed by the end of 2009, and auditors issued a clean
opinion on the project’s 2008 financial statements.

3.8     Disbursements were slow during the first two years of implementation, with only 8
percent of the loan spent at mid-term (December 2006). This was partly due to the types of
expenditures early in the project period (technical assistance and training), but also because
of delays in the purchase of information technology hardware. Disbursements accelerated
after mid-term. Withdrawal applications were prepared regularly, but since the project
followed the treasury system, expenses had to be paid from the Special Account. Some large
contracts for hardware toward the end of the project period required more funds than were
available in the Special Account, and an agreement was reached with the Ministry of Finance
in these cases to authorize the PCU to process withdrawal applications for direct payments.

4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1     Attribution. At the same time that the Project was being implemented, there were
parallel adjustment operations, as well as technical assistance provided through Dutch Trust
Funds. The project spent a relatively small amount of money compared with these other
interventions, but it is widely acknowledged that the project’s investments realized important
synergies with the policy loans, and that overall the Bank has been the primary external
agency supporting health reform before, during, and since the project period.

OBJECTIVE 1

Upgrade the Ministry of Health’s (MOH’s) and Health Insurance Fund’s (HIF’s)
capacity to formulate and effectively implement health policies, health insurance,
financial management, and contracting of providers is rated Modest.

4.2     Ministry of Health. The project provided technical assistance on many aspects of
health reform, including for the development of a medium- and long-term health strategy and
implementation plan, and for development of a public relations strategy to promote health
reforms to various stakeholders and the general public, including training for MOH staff and
journalists on health reforms (see Table 2 for a list of policies developed under the project).
As indicated earlier, the project provided technical support for many policy reforms that were
included as prior actions under parallel adjustment operations. A Medium-Term MOH
health sector strategy was developed and approved in 2005-2006; initially covering the
period 2005-2015, it was subsequently extended (in June 2007) to 2020. The health sector
strategy is universally seen as strong and appropriate for the Macedonian context, developed
through a consensual process. However, there is wide disagreement over the extent and
effectiveness of its implementation, with many stakeholders claiming that it has been
essentially abandoned in favor of ever-shifting political considerations. For example, over
                                              12


the last two years the MOH has begun to conduct tenders for equipment purchases for health
institutions, encroaching on the area of HIF’s responsibility and contradicting the MOH’s
central roles as steward and policy-maker.

Table 2. Health Sector Policies and Strategies Developed with Project Support
Policy                            Date                                  Impact
National Health           2005, revised in 2007    Mixed opinion: some see the Strategy as an
Strategy                                           effective foundation for reform; others see it as
                                                   secondary to political considerations.
Privatization Strategy            2007             Full, successful privatization of primary care
                                                   providers with full introduction of capitation
                                                   model for payment.
Diagnosis-Related                 2007             Successfully introduced, but limited impact.
Groups                                             Account for only 20 percent of hospital
                                                   budgets.
Public Information                2007             Successfully produced and implemented.
Strategy for health
reform
Medical Map                       2007             Largely abandoned.
Health Provider Law      2007-2008, proposed but   Would have given providers more autonomy to
                             not adopted or        react to incentives for efficient care.
                              implemented.
Pharmaceutical and                2009             Clinical guidelines universally distributed but
Clinical Guidelines                                not yet widely adopted in practice.
Public Health Law                 2010             Comprehensive law, central to EU accession.
Health Information                2011             Created but unsuccessfully implemented.
Technology strategy
Treasury Function for             2011             Successfully implemented with existing HIF
HIF                                                staff.
Basic Benefits Package    Reform necessary but     Would provide an important tool for rational
                           not implemented.        and cost-effective investment decisions.
Source:IEG

4.3     The procurement of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Guidelines (Cochrane database) was
completed in late 2009, serving as a reference for updating Macedonian clinical guidelines
and improving quality of care. A working group on clinical guidelines was active beginning
in 2007, and 32 new guidelines were developed in line with international standards and
widely distributed in hardcopy and through the project’s website. However, interviews with
providers and with the Doctors’ Chamber make it clear that adoption of these protocols is far
from complete, with their use not yet mandated by law and with physicians still posing
numerous questions about whether the protocols are intended as reference tools or as strict
instructions with penalties for non-compliance. According to the HIF, the focus during the
project period was on their creation, with implementation explicitly deferred until later.
Formal quality control is still officially the mandate of the MOH, but despite the occasional
investigation of a case of malpractice, drawing much media and public attention, very few
instances of fault are ever confirmed.
                                                13


4.4    A 2010 Public Health Law, passed without objection in Parliament, was elaborated
through extensive workshops and consultations with stakeholders, and with two intensive
programs in Belgium and Holland for the media and for the Macedonian Institute of Public
Health. This comprehensive law, which (according to stakeholders) would not have been
possible in the absence of the project, complies with European public health norms and is an
important component of the EU accession process.

4.5      A Policy Analysis Unit (PAU) was established in the Ministry of Health in 2005, with
responsibility for providing input and guidance on health policies, monitoring health
indicators, and assessing the impact of policies and reforms as they were implemented. The
Head of the PAU was to lead and coordinate the formulation of all health policy within the
Ministry and was to report directly to the Minister. Challenges in launching the PAU were
evident, however, from the beginning. Rigid Macedonian laws on civil servants and the state
budget required a number of preconditions before a new position, department, or unit could
be established, but agreements to consider these preconditions satisfied and add to MOH
manpower were not followed through because of financial and overall civil service number
restrictions. Established reporting hierarchies also meant that a stand-alone unit like the PAU
could not enjoy its intended role and authority (Dredge 2005). Initial staff appointments
specified that the PAU would be comprised of two existing full-time employees of the
Ministry, and one existing staff member from the Republic Institute of Public Health. With
core staff simply adding to existing responsibilities, and not dedicated to the role of policy
analysis and monitoring, the PAU was diluted from the beginning. In addition, the PAU’s
role in providing advice to the Minister was never made clear, generating opposition from
other senior officials who were not included in this policy “loop” (Dredge 2005). By the end
of 2008, it was clear that the MOH was not maintaining the PAU, despite project investments
in an international advisor and equipment for the unit.

4.6       A medical map was finalized in 2007. It provides distributional information on the
population, demographics, poverty proxies such as unemployment and illiteracy rates, health
status, and health resources across eight statistical regions and 84 municipalities. It was
intended to serve as a planning tool to modernize and rationalize the health sector and to
control expenditures. However, recent governments have been less than enthusiastic about
its utility; if the map matches demographics, morbidity, and mortality with health
institutions, staffing, and capacity, it is likely to produce a politically toxic finding of excess
hospital capacity, and so it has been largely abandoned.

4.7     The project also contributed to reform in the pharmaceutical sector. Macedonia, with
only two million people, has not traditionally been an attractive market for large drug
companies. The combination of limited market opportunity and complicated procedures for
new product registration has resulted in high costs for some pharmaceuticals and medical
devices compared to neighboring countries. During the decade following independence,
there was constant lack of supply in the pharmacies of the drugs included on the positive list
financed by the HIF, but these drugs were always available for private purchase directly by
patients. This resulted in an increase in private spending for health care (Lazarevik 2010).
The 2004-2005 PSMAL required the government to adopt and implement a new procurement
procedure based on international competitive bidding (ICB), with the tender covering one
year’s supply of generic drugs; the second tranche was not disbursed until contracts with the
                                                                   14


winning bidders were signed. The HIF issued Bank-approved bidding documents in
November of 2004, and the bid evaluation process was successfully completed in March
2005. This tender achieved a savings of 17 percent compared with previous efforts, and the
number of prescription drugs purchased in non-HIF-contracted pharmacies and reimbursed
by HIF decreased by 14 percent. The HIF then introduced reference pricing (one of the main
elements of the 2005-2009 PDPL series), where rather than procuring drugs, the HIF
reimburses a fixed amount covering the cost of generics, and patients and doctors then
choose which drugs actually to use. A Dutch Trust Fund was used to help establish
appropriate national pricing (World Bank 2009a). Since then, largely due to the new pricing
scheme, and later the introduction of new covered medications and an increase in the number
of pharmacies under contract, the value and number of prescription drugs covered by the HIF
has increased considerably (Figures 1 and 2).Reference prices made costs lower and more
predictable for the HIF, allowing it to stretch its revenues across a wider array of drugs and
facilities. Attribution for these gains cannot be unequivocally ascribed to the project, as data
are not available for the time period immediately preceding its interventions, but the jump in
coverage is clearly between 2008 and 2009, during the project’s lifetime and immediately
after reference pricing was introduced.

Figure 1. Total Value of Prescription Drugs Covered by HIF, Billions of Macedonian
Dinars, 2006-2011
    2

  1.8                                                                                   1.9
                                                                        1.829
                                                                                1.778
  1.6

  1.4                                1.522

  1.2                                                      1.319
               1.254

    1

  0.8

  0.6

  0.4

  0.2

    0
                2006                 2007                  2008         2009    2010    2011

Source:HIF annual reports; values adjusted for inflation
                                                         15


Figure 2. Number of Prescriptions Covered by HIF, 2003-2011

  18000000
                                                                                                   16330000
  16000000
                                                                               14965727 15277792

  14000000

  12000000                                               11045366
                                                                    10288509
                             9730000 9470000
  10000000
                                               8755525
                 8000000
   8000000

   6000000

   4000000

   2000000

            0
                   2003       2004    2005      2006       2007       2008       2009    2010        2011

Source: HIF annual reports

4.8     Capacity developed under the project enabled limited progress toward reform of the
Basic Benefits Package, necessary for long-term sustainability of health spending. Currently,
the benefits package provides (on paper) comprehensive coverage for outpatient and
inpatient services for the more than 90 percent of the population enrolled in the HIF. In
contrast to EU countries, non-medical benefits, including sick leave and maternity benefits,
are also included, even though available health sector finances are not adequate to cover the
cost of all these benefits and services. The package has not been evaluated using cost-
effectiveness and allocative efficiency criteria (World Bank 2011c), and reform has been
politically challenging, with new priorities following each new government and few
politicians willing to reduce the scope of guaranteed benefits. In November 2010, the
government adopted a Memorandum on revision of the package that recommended options
for reform, including revision of the list of services to be covered, changes in co-payment
policies, and promotion of voluntary health insurance. So far, however, reform of the Basic
Benefits Package has proved to be politically unworkable and has stalled.

4.9     The major IT effort under the project was the development of an integrated IT system
that would link the MOH with hospitals and with the HIF. Beginning in 2009, the Bank
began to persuade the government of the importance of progress toward an integrated data
environment for all of these institutions. A wide range of planned IT reforms for both MOH
and the HIF – development of an integrated health information system (IHIS), introduction of
electronic cards, restructuring of the HIF information system, introduction of DRGs, and the
introduction of the HIF treasury function – depended directly or indirectly on the planned
                                               16


procurement of IT equipment through the project. Delays in preparing the technical
specifications for the IT equipment threatened successful completion of the procurement.
There were also architectural risks, as the IHIS as initially designed did not integrate the HIF
well, resulting in a situation where (for example) a case-based payment model was
implemented with two different software products, and therefore hospital personnel had to
enter data twice for each case. Furthermore, as of late 2009, there was no project manager
devoted only to IHIS development, and the relationship of the HIF team to the project’s IT
team was unclear. An IT Working Group in the MOH did not have the capacity to manage
such a complex project. Cost overruns for the computer hardware and consequent need to
shift funds between components meant that other beneficial activities had to be stopped.

4.10 The MOH purchased, with US$ 2.65 million in funds from the project, 1,695 desktop
computers, 200 printers, 100 laptops, hardware for an MOH data center, 30 servers for
hospitals, networking hardware, all supporting equipment, and off-the-shelf system software.
These were delivered to hospitals and other public health institutions. Development of the
software and training of users was left to the government, however, and that process stalled.
A consortium of Croatian companies was contracted to create the network software, but after
repeated missteps and delays, that contract was cancelled. As a result, each hospital has an
acceptable package of computer hardware but has been left to its own devices to develop or
purchase its own software, establish a network, and implement training. This means that the
HIF now has to cope with different invoicing software systems at each hospital.

4.11 Moreover, the individual hospitals’ computers are not networked to the central health
ministry. A planned MOH IT Center was never built because of a change in priority when a
new health minister came on board, and there was pressure simply to disburse the funds even
in the absence of a network. Overall, there were not enough IT experts involved in system
planning, and as a result the MOH IT working group did not create an adequate set of initial
specifications; there were too many members in the working group, each pushing a different
set of specific ideas and needs. Without effective coordination and leadership, eventual
development of a coherent set of system specifications was impossible. Overall, these IT
shortcomings represent a significant missed opportunity. While not a major brake on
achievement of overall project outcomes, they compromised efficiency and will require
duplicate expenditures if the health sector is to move forward with more cost-effective forms
of provider payment.

4.12 Health Insurance Fund. The project provided technical assistance for training for
members of the HIF Board and staff, for development of the HIF information and
management system, for developing key performance indicators for HIF contracting with
health care institutions, and for implementation of provider payment reforms. Assistance
was also provided for the development of the methodology for drug reference pricing and for
prescribing guidelines and rational drug use. These interventions were considered necessary
because HIF audits in 2000, 2001, and 2003 had identified a litany of shortcomings,
including poor accounting and recording of transactions, payments that did not match
invoices received, and improper write-offs of accounts receivable and payable (World Bank
2005). Disbursement of the second tranche of the 2004-2005 PSMAL was conditioned on
the government’s agreement to an action plan with a time-bound schedule for: (a)
establishing an appropriate policy base for health system reforms; (b) imposing fixed budget
                                                                        17


ceilings on health care institutions; (c) improving controls over providers’ budget execution,
reporting, reforecasting, and the treatment of arrears; (d) establishing a preliminary set of
financial and service performance indicators for all health care institutions; and (e)
strengthening internal and external audit. Elements of this action plan were also included as
disbursement conditions under the PDPL (World Bank 2005).

4.13 An Action Plan for improving revenue collection, based on an external audit of HIF,
was prepared and implemented. Revenue collection increased by 13.2 percent between 2004
and 2009 (from 14.9 billion Dinars in 2004 to 19.7 billion Dinars in 2009), at least in part
due to decreased contribution evasion (Figure 3). The number of contributors (employed
contributors plus people whose contributions are being paid by the government, including
unemployed persons, persons with disabilities, etc.) increased by 12 percent over the project
period (Table 3).

Figure 3. HIF Revenue and Expenditure, 2006-2011

                                    25
                                                                                                    21.104
                                                               20.43                     19.925
                                                                             19.72
    Billions of Macedonian dinars




                                    20
                                                  17.49                                             20.967
                                          16.5                 19.63                     19.803
                                                                             19.165
                                    15   16.281   16.425


                                    10


                                    5


                                    0
                                         2006     2007         2008          2009            2010   2011

                                                     HIF expenditures         HIF revenues

Source: HIF annual reports
                                               18


Table 3. Persons Insured by Health Insurance Fund, 2006-2011
Category                          2006       2007       2008       2009       2010       2011
Active workers                    423284     445653     468860     478962     482929     488869
Active farmers                    18038      17297      14799      14613      14869      18154
Pensioners                        313396     329611     284425     278863     283303     291170
Unemployed persons                283999     263672     253280     256416     253249     21927
Unemployed insured by MOH                                          5628       14458      216965
Other                             25285      24098      21296      18586      17321      17464
INSURED PERSONS                   1054002    1080331    1042660    1053068    1066129    1054549
Family members                    884758     879053     853352     840766     836816     780980
TOTAL INSURED PERSONS             1938760    1959384    1896012    1893834    1902945    1835529
Source: HIFAnnual Reports

4.14 With support from the 2005-2009 PDPL series and technical assistance from the
project, the HIF Board structure and operation was revised, according to new regulations
adopted by Parliament; the Board is now appointed for four years and functions according to
a new operations manual. In 2011, it met 14 times, with minutes published on its website
(HIF 2012). An internal audit unit is functional. Annual HIF audits have been found
acceptable; since 2004, comments in management letters have decreased in substance and in
number. The percentage of total HIF expenditures devoted to HIF administration has
remained low, around 2.5 percent. In addition, the HIF is now effectively performing its
control function. In 2011, it carried out 8,251 controls (inspections to ensure that providers
are fulfilling their contractual obligations to the HIF), resulting in 273 fines or penalties. Of
these, 150 prompted objections from the health care institutions involved, and upon review,
the majority (134) of the penalties were confirmed (HIF 2012).

4.15 At least in part due to technical assistance, capacity development, and IT support
provided by the project, the HIF has maintained coverage for 90 percent of the population
and has increasingly gained capacity to identify and rectify barriers to effective coverage.
According to Employment Bureau Agency estimates, for many years around 20 percent of all
those who registered as unemployed were doing so only for the purpose of receiving free
health insurance (about 68,000 of 341,000 in July 2009), and there were relatively limited
checks on the accuracy of information provided (World Bank 2009b). The HIF identified
this trend and instituted checks to reverse it, resulting in an 8.8 percent reduction in those
receiving these benefits between 2009 and 2001 (those registered as unemployed plus those
unemployed covered by the MOH; Table 3). More recently, the HIF identified a 22 percent
increase from 2010-2011 in the number of farmers registered for health insurance, while the
State Statistical Office found a 7 percent decrease in the number of persons employed in the
agricultural sector that year. The HIF found that this trend stemmed from people who had
formerly registered as unemployed in order to benefit from reduced monthly premiums for
health insurance, now prevented from doing so, beginning to identify themselves as farmers
in order to get reduced health insurance premiums. As a result, a September 2011 legislative
action pursued by the HIF decoupled the provision of free health insurance from employment
registration altogether, introducing instead an income test in the form of a self-declaration
that will be checked by the Public Revenues Office (HIF 2012). Free health insurance will
                                               19


be provided only to individuals with income levels below 30 percent of the average annual
income.

4.16 The HIF also has displayed analytic capacity to understand recent increases in the
number of issued sick leaves and funds allocated for sick leaves. Rather than concluding that
there is increased population morbidity, the HIF conducted an analysis indicating that the
sick leave increases are due to rising employment (and therefore a greater number of persons
eligible for sick leave), an increase in the average salary (which increases sick leave
compensation), low interest among employers in controlling sick leave, and evidence of
misuse of sick leave (higher rates of use among young people age 25-35, and higher rates
among young women indicating possible use of sick leave for child care needs). As a result
of this analysis, there were amendments to the by-laws governing sick leave in 2011 and
2012 (HIF 2012).

4.17 In January 2011, a Single Treasury Account covering all public health institutions
was introduced within the HIF (as a prior action to a 2011 Policy Based Guarantee), designed
to increase efficiency in spending and provide an additional line of defense against over-
commitment or overspending by the HIF and health care institutions (World Bank 2011c;
HIF 2012). This new function has been carried out by existing staff already employed in the
HIF; with reallocation of existing human resources, the HIF established departments or
divisions for treasury operations in the 30 regional HIF branches, as well as a department for
treasury operations within the Accounting and Treasury Section at HIF headquarters (HIF
2012). This arrangement may begin to allow appropriate flexibility for these institutions to
have autonomy in allocation of resources. Estimated savings from the Single Treasury
Account amounted to 0.2 million Euros in 2011, and the new system is improving financial
management practices by requiring health institutions to prepare budgets and monthly plans
and control their execution (World Bank 2012).

4.18 Most importantly, financial obligations of the HIF to suppliers were cleared in 2007,
and the obligations of the entire public health sector fell from 1.7 percent of GDP (4.7
percent of government revenues) in 2004 to 0.4 percent of GDP (1.0 percent of government
revenues) in 2008, largely due to the introduction of hard budget ceilings for health care
institutions and strengthening of ex-ante controls over spending (the project helped to install
accountants in hospitals to ensure compliance). However, after 2008 debts began to re-
accumulate, with the obligations shifted from the HIF to the providers themselves. In 2007,
as the HIF debt was cleared, responsibility for purchasing medicines and small medical
equipment was shifted to hospitals. Hospitals are now accumulating arrears that reached 0.5
percent of GDP by the end of 2009, 0.3 percent of GDP by mid-2010, and 0.6 percent of
GDP at the end of 2010, with about 40 percent of that debt for intra-hospital services (World
Bank 2011c). As these hospital facilities are public, ultimately the debt accrues to the
central government; the eventual fiscal impact is unclear.

4.19 At the time the HSMP became effective, an information system for the HIF was
essentially in place. Branch offices of the Fund were integrated with the central office
through a functioning network. However, each of the HIF branches had created its own
registry, rather than relying on one central database in Skopje, resulting in duplication for
                                               20


patients who live and work in two different cities, a substantial number of people in such a
geographically small country. The HIF is now having to design a new, centralized system.

4.20 Overall, the project Modestly upgraded the capacity of the MOH and HIF to
formulate and effectively implement a wide range of policies and strategies. The MOH
pattern is one in which new and potentially effective policies have been successfully adopted,
but political or other pressures prevent follow-through to implementation. This was true of
the clinical guidelines, medical map, basic benefits package, and information technology
strategy. The HIF has been more successful, with capacity development resulting in
improved revenue collection, administrative efficiencies, and progress toward clearing debt
obligations within the health insurance system. However, even the HIF has struggled with
effective implementation of IT development plans.

OBJECTIVE 2

Develop and implement an efficient scheme of restructuring hospital services, with
emphasis on developing day-care services and shifting to primary care is rated
Substantial.

4.21 The project provided technical assistance on health care financing and legislation,
including for drug reference pricing, development of key performance indicators for HIF and
health care provider contracting, and hospital reform and management. Training was
provided for regional as well as national offices. These inputs were intended to contribute to
effective restructuring of health services that would provide increased incentives for
expanded use of cost-effective, higher-quality primary care, in conjunction with new
payment models for hospital care that would result in closure or reprofiling of excess
capacity and improved, more efficient care in remaining inpatient facilities. To this end, the
project supported new models of financing and ownership of primary care as well as training
of family medicine practitioners. It also supported grants to improve infrastructure in select
facilities and the introduction of case-based payments for inpatient care.

4.22 As of January 1, 2007, primary care physicians – general practitioners, gynecologists,
pediatricians, occupational medicine, and school medicine physicians -- were privatized.
Practitioners received premises, equipment, and devices under concession, and compensation
shifted from salary to capitation based on the size of the providers’ catchment area
populations. Preventive care doctors and nurses remain on the public payroll, and those
facilities and equipment remain in public ownership. By the end of 2008, almost 2200
primary health care providers had been contracted by the HIF, constituting 95 percent of the
licensed primary care providers and over 35 percent of all licensed practicing physicians in
the country (Milevska-Kostova 2011).

4.23 Also in 2007, with project support, capitation payments were introduced for primary
care. The HIF pays primary care centers a capitation amount adjusted by age, gender, and
region (high payments in rural and mountainous areas), with an additional performance
component based on compliance with a set of preventive and curative care indicators
including immunization, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer prevention, prescription
medicines, referrals, and the issuing of sick-leave certificates. Of the total monthly capitation
                                               21


amount, a 70 percent base payment is paid monthly, while 30 percent is withheld to be paid
at the end of each quarter, based on quarterly performance evaluation on agreed preventive
care benchmarks: 7 percent for limiting the number of prescriptions per registered patient, 4
percent for rational referrals and sick leaves, and 19 percent for preventive services and early
detection of malignancies and deformities in children (Schneider 2007; Milevska-Kostova
2011). A limit is placed on the total patient list a physician can claim each year, to ensure
adequate attention to each patient. In 2009, the formula for prescriptions was further refined
(because reductions in the numbers of issued prescriptions did not reach desired levels) to
include a fixed budget, adjusted to the number of registered patients, for prescribing;
exceeding the ceiling results in a decrease in the capitation payment. The capitation amount
is paid directly from the HIF to the health facility bank account, where it is used to pay for all
recurrent costs, including salaries of privatized physicians and materials to treat patients.
The performance component is intended to eliminate the incentive to use the capitation funds
for paying primarily salaries and to refer patients to the next level of care; there are few data
available to assess whether there has been an impact on the provision of care.

4.24 The project established and equipped a Family Medicine Training Center at the
Clinical Center in Skopje, harnessing trainers from Slovenia and also 20 personnel trained as
trainers under the precursor Health Sector Transition Project who continue to serve as core
staff. The MOH has established a requirement that all existing general practice physicians
will be retrained through a standard three-month course in family medicine by the year 2020.
After this retraining, each physician has to pass the same licensing examination as doctors
newly educated as family medicine specialists.

4.25 This strong progress in family medicine evolved in the face of moderate political
opposition. In early 2010, upon learning of the project’s intention to implement training for
family medicine, pediatricians began to mobilize with plans to strike and to encourage patient
protests. Members of the project team met with practitioners’ groups, brought in the Chair of
the Board of Pediatrics from Llubjana to discuss sensitive issues in a frank and open
environment, and engaged the services of an effective public relations firm to engage the
mass media. A new specialty, Primary Health Care: Pediatrics, was established to make
pediatricians an essential part of primary health care teams. Resistance from
obstetrician/gynecologists was overcome through reassurance that family doctors would
perform only the most basic gynecological care, with continued referrals to specialists where
appropriate. The level of capitation payments to primary care physicians was widely
considered to be satisfactory, helping to smooth the way for the family medicine reform; the
correct sequencing, with capitation first, facilitated the introduction of family medicine. The
2009 H1N1 pandemic also played a role in decreasing resistance to family medicine, as
physicians hesitated to send patients to crowded infectious disease clinics where they might
spread or be exposed to further infection; the epidemic helped physicians to see the important
role family doctors could play in the health care system.

4.26 A grants facility was established to support demonstration projects in 14 health care
institutions nation-wide, to improve energy efficiency, patient safety and satisfaction, and
quality of care. An additional ten competitive grants were supported for activities including
purchasing of x-ray equipment, dialysis chairs, and medical and office furniture.
                                               22


4.27 At the inpatient level, in preparation for the introduction of case-based payments, in
late 2006 hospitals began quarterly activity reporting, as well as performance reporting on
average length of stay (ALOS), inpatient admissions, referrals, re-admission rates, and
patient satisfaction scores. Of the historically defined global hospital budgets, the HIF began
to pay 60 percent as a monthly base payment, 30 percent as a monthly payment based on
activity benchmarks, and 10 percent based on those five performance indicators (with the
performance component added at the beginning of 2007) (Schneider 2007). In 2007,
diagnosis-related groups (DRGs) were introduced to measure performance and finance health
services in hospitals, with 20 percent of a hospital’s budget tied to the DRGs (World Bank
2009a). By 2011, the DRG system covered 54 public and four private hospitals (HIF 2012).
Beginning in 2009, the HIF has published quarterly and annual DRG reports, with analyses
of diagnoses and procedures, age and sex structure of patients, complexity of cases, average
hospital stays, hospitalization rates, use of hospital capacity, and efficiency of spending.
These analyses include comparisons of different hospitals and within the same hospitals over
time (HIF 2012).

4.28 Acceptance of diagnosis-related groups was a political process, with resistance from
the MOH, the HIF Board, and hospital directors. The project approached this problem
gradually and through a multi-pronged strategy. A ten-day Hospital Management and
Leadership Training Course was developed and delivered for about 700 participants, offered
at 20 sites around the country. Through this management training, hospitals were persuaded
of the benefits of business planning, so that each facility would know exactly what money
was being spent, and for what services. Bringing physicians and economists together in these
training sessions and planning processes addressed a situation where doctors had never
thought about money, and economists had no ear for medicine. In parallel with the
management training, the DRG system was brought on line with access for each hospital, so
that the hospitals could see exactly how the system was intended to work while they were
attending extensive workshops on its functioning in Skopje and across the country.

4.29 Hospitals have not, however, been fully transformed. The management training
courses were a solid start, but their duration was too short to give hospitals the full capacity
to be efficient. With DRGs comprising only 20 percent of hospital budgets, hospital
managers still do not have full incentives for efficiency, and even if they did, they do not
have the management autonomy to react to financial incentives through changes in the
provision of care (eliminating unnecessary beds and staff). There are still political pressures
to spend money on expensive equipment and capital repairs (that win votes for incumbent
legislators) and to avoid staff reductions. The HIF conducts some training with hospitals that
are found, through HIF audits, to have obvious needs for organizational improvements, but
there is no team to conduct continuous work on management efficiency in hospitals.
Moreover, the introduction of DRGs has had some unintended consequences, with
procedures that are more highly scored (for payment) being performed more frequently, and
referrals to other hospitals decreased because hospitals do not want to send reimbursements
elsewhere.

4.30 Average length of stay in all hospitals decreased from 11.5 days in 2002 to 6.13 days
in 2010, and the number of hospital beds per 1,000 population decreased from 4.83 in 2002
to 4.5 in 2009. The bed occupancy rate has remained constant at 53.7 percent in 2004 and
                                                               23


52.9 percent in 2009, very low compared with the 2004 EU15 average of 77 percent
(Gjorgjev 2006; World Bank 2007; DRG Work Group 2010). The number of outpatient
surgeries for selected indications increased from 13,151 in 2005 to 41,500 in 2009. The
number of re-admissions for the same condition within a three-month period decreased from
72,226 in 2004 to 3,488 in 2008. It is not clear, however, that all of these gains can be
attributed to the project, as progress was evident prior to the project period.

Table 4. Average Length of Stay and Hospital Beds/1,000 Population, All Hospitals,
1991- 2010
                                              ALOS                               Hospital beds/1,000
                 1991                         14.4a                                     5.79a
                 1995                         14.2a                                     5.42a
                 2000                         12.2a,b                                  5.06a,b
                 2001                         11.8b                                     4.93b
                 2002                         11.5b                                     4.83b
                 2004                         11.8c                                     4.94a
                 2005                                                                   4.70b
                 2006                                                                   4.63b
                 2008                         6.25c
                 2009                          5.9c                                         4.5b
                 2010                      5.8c; 6.13c
          Source: Gjorgjev 2006(a); World Development Indicators(b); HIF and project documents(c)


4.31 In addition, actual hospital rationalization was limited. The structure of HIF
expenditure during and immediately following the project period has not shifted away from
hospitals and toward primary care, as would be expected from a process of hospital
rationalization (Table5).

Table 5. Distribution of HIF Payments by Type of Provider (listed as percentage of total
HIF allocations to providers), 2003-2011
                       2002             2003       2004      2005       2006      2007       2008    2009    2010    2011
Hospitals              42.04            37.21      37.47     42.70      35.10     32.14      35.17   36.29   34.89   39
Outpatient specialists 24.79            24.95      26.49     20.64      28.87     31.08      30.32   29.41   31.08   30
Primary care           28.94            33.30      33.00     33.40      32.51     33.92      31.82   30.87   30.3    27
Medical devices        1.40             1.30       1.78      1.92       2.18      2.06       1.84    2.20    2.71    2
Treatment abroad       1.22             1.66       0.93      1.19       1.31      0.76       0.84    1.20    1.00    1
Other                  1.61             1.58       0.33      0.15       0.03      0.04       0.01    0.03    0.02    1
TOTAL                  100              100        100       100        100       100        100     100     100     100
Source: Milevska-Kostova 2011

4.32 Hospital rationalization appears to have been limited for two reasons. First, closing
or downsizing of hospitals has proved impossible due to political considerations, as populist
governments have been unwilling to take this essential step. In 2005, for example, there was
a plan to close one hospital in the small city of Priyaholanka, near the Bulgarian border,
where only 17 percent of capacity was being used and another, larger hospital was within a
                                               24


one-hour drive. A huge public protest stopped the closure, however, with a group of NGOs –
widely assumed to be financed by opposition political parties – blocking the highway leading
to the hospital.

4.33 Second, the provider payment reforms have been incompletely implemented. The
DRG-based payment is widely seen as an activity independent of “real” payments for
hospital services, as it constitutes only 20 percent of total hospital budgets. To a great extent,
hospital budgets are still based on historic costs. Furthermore, in order for restructuring
schemes to be efficient, health facility managers need management autonomy, decision
power about hiring staff, and training and decision-making capacity to change the input mix
(for example, firing staff in order to increase availability of drugs), reinvest profits from
efficiency gains toward improvements in quality and processes of care, merge facilities and
close inefficient departments, and contract out services (laundry, cleaning, etc.) to the private
sector. Hospital managers still have limited autonomy and flexibility to respond to new
financial incentives under the case-based payment schemes (Schneider 2007). In late 2007
and early 2008, the government presented to the Bank team a proposed framework for a new
Health Provider Law that was to give more autonomy to health care institutions to allow
them to respond appropriately to new sets of imperatives and incentives. Overall, the Bank
found the proposed framework to be an excellent model of provider autonomy. A working
group chaired by the deputy health minister was charged with translating that framework into
specific legal language by the end of February 2008. However, at that same time, the
Minister of Health indicated that other legal options for achieving the same goal were also on
the table. The Bank team stressed that any new legal framework would have to grant
hospital management and administration the flexibility to deal in a proactive and autonomous
manner with operational issues and constraints, including financing, staffing, and asset
management, with a minimum level of day-to-day control by the MOH and HIF. By April of
2008, it was clear that political obstacles were going to block the adoption of a new law in
this area, and the law was removed as a core condition for the Bank’s third PDPL.

4.34 Despite shortcomings, progress in restructuring hospital services is rated Substantial.
Primary care and family medicine, whose strengthening is a prerequisite for rationalization of
the inpatient sector, were restructured with wholly new forms of ownership and provider
reimbursement. Diagnosis-related groups were introduced in hospitals, and although their
impact is currently limited by their relevance to only 20 percent of hospital budgets, the
project made important progress in their creation, the training of personnel in their
implementation, and overcoming political hurdles to their use. There was progress on key
indicators related to hospital restructuring, with reductions in average length of stay, hospital
beds per capita, and readmissions, and increases in outpatient surgeries.

5. Efficiency
5.1    Efficiency is rated Substantial. The economic analysis conducted for the Project
Appraisal Document assigned the major share of anticipated project benefits to improved
HIF revenue collection and expenditure management, finding a Net Present Value (NPV) of
net benefits by 2011 of 5.86 billion Dinars (approximately US$ 118.3 million), at a 10
percent discount rate, from improved revenue collection, and 5.6 billion Dinars (US$
                                              25


114million), at a 10 percent discount rate, from improved expenditure management. This
calculation was predicated on reasonable assumptions that the benefits would start accruing
in 2007, with increased revenues of 5 percent in 2007, 7 percent in 2008, 9 percent in 2009,
and 10 percent in 2010 and 2011. These estimates indicated benefits that far outweighed
costs.

5.2     The economic analysis conducted at the Implementation Completion and Results
Report (ICR) stage, using actual revenues of the HIF for the period 2004-2009 and estimated
revenues for 2010-2015 (based on an actuarial analysis conducted in March 2011), found
benefits even larger than those estimated at the time of appraisal. According to the ICR, the
NPV of net benefits by 2011 at a 10 percent discount rate from improved revenue collection
is 7.31 billion Dinars (US$ 171.4 million), and from improved expenditure management is
6.95 billion Dinars (US$ 163.0 million). These benefits far outweigh calculated investments
of 4.24 million Dinars (US$ 99,400), over the life of the project, for revenue collection
improvement activities, and 226.62 million Dinars (US$ 5.31 million) for expenditure
management improvement activities.

5.3     Indirect benefits of the project were not quantified. However, several realized
efficiencies can be expressed in qualitative terms. Reductions in average length of hospital
stay increased the efficiency of delivery of medical care. Also, efficiencies are being realized
through the competitive procurement of pharmaceuticals and changes in the payment
mechanism to providers. Competitive procurement of pharmaceuticals resulted in a savings
of US$ 9 million in 2009 alone. In 2006, administrative costs and personnel input for the
issuance of health insurance cards were decreased through an arrangement with the Post
Office to issue these cards. Finally, improving the management of the HIF has improved staff
performance and efficiency of operations, including reduced waste and fraud through the
application of appropriate internal controls established with support from the project.

5.4     However, there were shortcomings. Investments in the health information
management system were clearly not efficient. Repeated delays and interoperability issues
have resulted in a situation where some investments will have to be repeated, and the
government had to take direct responsibility for investments that initially were to be covered
by the project.

5.5     Also, according to many observers, political factors resulted in decreased efficiency.
Many key personnel at the MOH, HIF, and health care institutions are appointed based on
party affiliation or political background, and when a political shift takes place – which is
often, in the Macedonian context – much experience and training is lost as people are
replaced, and those with experience and institutional memory are not consulted going
forward. According to several interview respondents, because of this turnover of personnel,
Bank staff and consultants had to give the same lectures and presentations on a variety of
topics – drug price rationalization, co-payments, the basic benefits package – over and over
again, often with the same consultant being paid multiple times to deliver the same product.
                                              26


6. Ratings
Outcome
6.1      The project’s Outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory. The project’s objectives
were substantially relevant to country conditions at the time of appraisal, and to the Bank’s
current Country Partnership Strategy. Project design was substantially relevant, with a solid
results chain logically connecting development objectives to expected outcomes and project
activities. The MOH’s and HIF’s institutional capacities were improved, with the HIF in
particular having made significant strides in financial management, insurance coverage, and
contracting with providers. The MOH, however, exhibited a pattern of developing strong
policies that stalled before or during implementation, resulting in a rating of Modest for the
first objective. The second objective to restructure hospital services was substantially
achieved. Prerequisite development of primary care was carried out through privatization
and the implementation of capitation payment models, and the foundation for implementation
of case-based hospital payments was introduced. There was improvement on such indicators
as average length of hospital stay, although hospital managers still do not have the necessary
autonomy to respond completely to new incentive structures, and political factors have
prevented savings through reprofiling or closing of excess capacity. Economic analyses
show that the project’s net benefits far outweighed its costs in the areas of revenue collection
and expenditure management, indicating substantial efficiency.

Risk to Development Outcome
6.2     Financial risk is moderate. Bank support to the health sector has continued through a
Development Policy operation and a Policy Based Guarantee operation (Table 1); both of
these include health policy reform areas (the former on continuing improvements in financial
management and control, and the latter on the adoption of a revised Basic Benefits Package
consistent with available financing resources for the health sector, as well as a review of
health insurance for the unemployed). In addition, an Institutional Development Fund grant
for about US$ 0.5 million was approved in April 2011 to support the establishment of a
modern accreditation system to help monitor and evaluate the quality of care providers.
However, health care institutions are still accumulating arrears, largely due to incomplete
implementation of DRGs, although the health ministry also blames increases in heating and
drug costs, new equipment purchases, and the expanded care needs of an aging population.
As of mid-2012, hospitals were accruing 1.5 million Euros/month in added debt. This
system is not sustainable.

6.3     Institutional risk is moderate. The project’s attention to management training and
capacity building (including the MOH, HIF, and health care institutions) has entrenched
modern approaches as part of the general management culture in the sector, particularly in
the HIF. However, knowledgeable and experienced project staff have not been integrated
into regular MOH and HIF structures; although such integration was discussed and deemed
acceptable by project leadership, the issue was not resolved into the project grace period,
even while these staff continued support to project completion activities. Key procurement
and financial management staff have moved on to other positions outside of government.
                                              27


6.4      Political risk is moderate. The most important reassurance of sustainability is the
commitment across the political spectrum to the development objectives of an improved
public sector. These objectives are strongly linked to the EU accession agenda, which is a
broadly owned strategic goal of the country. However, the MOH, HIF, and other
institutions’ ownership and commitment to sustaining gains, though relatively strong at this
time, could wane if new managers are appointed and priorities change. Much also depends
on the Bank’s continued involvement, as stakeholders agree that one of the Bank’s most
important contributions throughout the project period was the authority and trust it held with
the government and its consequent ability to facilitate progress despite changing political
winds and agendas. In the absence of a follow-on Bank investment project, the “reform
atmosphere” is widely reported to be waning.

6.5    Overall risk to development outcome is rated Moderate.

Bank Performance
6.6     Ensuring Quality-at-Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Project design
benefited from a functional review conducted during preparation, funded by the UK
Department for International Development (DfID); this review found that there was an urgent
need to realign the MOH toward the core roles and functions of policy formulation and
implementation, priority setting, monitoring health systems performance, and coordination.
Key lessons were learned from the HSTP, as well as from other health reform projects in the
region. These included the need for: (i) government ownership and active involvement by
government agencies during implementation; (ii) a realistic and flexible timetable for
implementation, to allow management of political risk; (iii) realistic assessment of capacity
for implementation; (iv) effective pairing of policy dialogue with efficient and transparent
project coordination and implementation; (v) strong technical assistance, training, and
information system development to support policy changes; (vi) public relations activities to
ensure public buy-in for reforms and to prevent unrealistic expectations; (vii) involvement of
local experts and end users in investment decisions; (vii) increase of in-house capacity of the
MOH; and (ix) effective monitoring and evaluation.

6.7     However, there were shortcomings. Although most risks were adequately identified
and mitigated (low project ownership by MOH; potential rapid turnover of senior policy
officials; failure of providers to respond adequately to incentives for improving quality and
efficiency; and the relatively ambitious nature of Component 1), the PAD did not include an
assessment of risk associated with institutional arrangements, which called for MOH to be
responsible for overall project management and implementation. Having the Project
Principal Coordinator, a high-level MOH officer, devote 20 percent of work time to the
project was unrealistic. Supervision missions noted that the dual position led to frequent
absence from the ministry and unavailability for project management, making it difficult to
provide the necessary guidance and oversight to project management staff. However, some
of the coordinators responded that their dual MOH-project identities provided an essential
link between the government and the project. Overall, the benefit of having the deputy
minister coordinate the project accrues only if the deputy minister has access and influence
with the minister, which is not automatically the case, and the project coordinator does not
have to be a deputy minister in order to secure that access and influence.
                                              28


6.8    There were also shortcomings related to M&E. The indicators did not attempt to
measure results of improved capacity building, and many of the indicators were not
formulated to capture the development objectives appropriately, measuring broad sectoral
progress rather than project-specific contributions.

6.9     Quality of Supervision is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Supervision was intense,
with frequent missions. Project supervision was carried out in conjunction with the design
and supervision of the concurrent adjustment operations, ensuring consistency in policy
dialogue and in the messages delivered by the Bank to the government at the macro and
micro levels. The Bank team demonstrated flexibility at various stages of implementation to
make adjustments to project interventions and provide more focus, better reflect evolving
needs, and more closely align project activities with the overall reform agenda. In particular,
the Bank team provided close support to conceptualize overall information management and
to guide the procurement, testing, and delivery of equipment for the IHIS throughout the
country prior to closing.

6.10 The Bank team worked through difficult communications between the Bank’s
procurement staff and the staff of the HIF to ensure that international competitive bidding
(ICB) could be implemented. In the 2007 ICB procurement, 70 percent of bidders did not fill
out the bidding documents properly, and their bids were rejected. The Bank, HIF
management, and a special commission for procurement enforced requirements consistently
and effectively. A new tender was carried out, and compliance with tendering procedures
improved dramatically (World Bank 2009a).

6.11 Task team leadership (TTL) changed four times during the life of the project.
According to many stakeholders, frequent changes of TTL presented an obstacle to
continuous and effective Bank support to the project, with changes sometimes occurring at
critical times. The engagement of Bank staff in the country office was most helpful in
ensuring continuity in the Bank team.

6.12 The Bank team also experienced shortcomings in: (i) ensuring that the results
framework was formally amended, as recommended at the Mid-Term Review (informally,
the project began to report on two additional indicators: one regarding execution of Grants,
and the other reporting on the amount of contributions and contributors to HIF separately);
(ii) ensuring formal changes to the institutional arrangements that called for MOH and HIF
staff to be appointed Project Coordinators; (iii) ensuring that comprehensive Progress
Management Reports were prepared regularly and included assessments of progress and
challenges; and (iv) persuading the government to proceed promptly with the procurement of
hardware and software for the IHIS (because of delays in this area, there was a second
extension of the project’s closing date).

6.13 Disagreements remain about provisions made early in the project period for eventual
post-project employment of PCU staff by the MOH. Several of those staff claim that these
commitments were broken due to lack of support from Bank management, while the MOH
and Ministry of Finance claim that full-time positions could not be offered to these PCU staff
due to lack of funds. In any event, there was significant investment in capacity and
                                               29


institutional memory that is now not being used, and it is not the case that most or all of these
staff are now employed under better conditions in the private sector.

Borrower Performance
6.14 Government Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. During project
design, the Government engaged in detailed discussions during and in between missions,
providing written comments on options to be explored and ways to finance various aspects of
the reform, including technical assistance. During implementation, the government
(particularly the Ministry of Finance) demonstrated commitment to the project as part of the
broader reform agenda supported by the various Bank-financed adjustment operations.
Support from the Ministry of Finance was particularly instrumental in offsetting internal and
external opposition to reforms, especially in pharmaceutical procurement (World Bank
2005).

6.15 Incremental recurrent costs were to be financed by the Loan on a declining basis,
starting at 95 percent and ramping down to 25 percent after January 2008; however, due to
lack of counterpart financing, the Loan financed this category at 100 percent of expenditures.
The same situation applied to goods and training, which were initially to be financed at 83
percent for goods procured locally and 83 percent for local consultants; instead, the Loan
financed these categories at 100 percent. The higher-than-anticipated contribution from the
government reflects higher expenditures than initially estimated for recurrent costs, which
went beyond amounts available under the Loan. During the last years of implementation, the
MOH budget was able to cover the additional needs.

6.16 The MOH demonstrated flexibility at various stages of implementation to make
adjustments to project interventions to provide more focus, better reflect evolving needs, and
more closely align project activities with the overall reform agenda. However, weak project
management capacity in MOH and weak inter-institutional collaboration between MOH and
HIF caused delays. There were several changes in ministers of health (four ministers) and
other senior MOH officials during implementation, adversely affecting political commitment
and project ownership and ultimately delaying implementation. Each new Minister of Health
brought in substantially new staff, creating delays while new personnel were brought up to
speed on the project. One year after effectiveness, the Bank requested the appointment of a
full-time Principal Project Coordinator, but this did not materialize; it was only during the
last year of the project, when it was clear that delays with procurement of hardware were
seriously affecting implementation, that the MOH hired a Project Manager to provide overall
coordination with the PCU. Also, the MOH did not respond to repeated Bank reminders to
issue a formal request to institute refinements to the development indicators. Finally, the
MOH did not maintain the Policy Analysis Unit until completion of the project, as stipulated
in the Loan Agreement, despite the Bank’s offering of US$ 50,000 from the Dutch Trust
Fund to hire individuals for an initial period; the MOH argued that the National Public
Health Institute adequately performs the policy analysis function.

6.17 Early support from the HIF was uneven. There was management discontinuity (a
change in HIF director in 2003), a lack of familiarity with international competitive bidding,
and the need to deal with strong opposition from local pharmaceutical distributors, who
                                              30


anticipated that drug procurement reform would expose them to increased competition
(World Bank 2005). HIF commitment and capacity improved dramatically during
implementation.

6.18 Implementing Agency Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
Constraints in project management were identified at an early stage, including weak
coordination among financial management, procurement, and planning of component
activities. One year after Loan effectiveness, limited progress had been made with project
implementation. To get the project back on track, the Bank requested that the MOH pay
special attention to the performance of the project management structure, including
improving communications with and between Coordinators and Assistant Coordinators and
establishing working groups. Changes in the PCU necessitated training of new staff, causing
delays.

6.19 In practice, MOH and HIF staff who were appointed as Project Coordinators did not
devote adequate time to the project, as they had other responsibilities in their respective
institutions, resulting in consultants in the PCU (who held the formal position of Assistant
Coordinators) functioning as de facto Component Coordinators. Primary responsibility for
implementation and continuity fell on these Component Coordinators as a result of the
frequent turnover at higher levels of administration and management.

6.20 The PCU played an important role in M&E. The PCU component coordinators took
the lead in monitoring indicators. Indicators were monitored regularly and reported in aides
memoire. However, the PCU did not prepare systematic quarterly progress reports, as
required in the operations manual, and the reports that were prepared were not
comprehensive for the entire project. In addition, there were occasional problems with
coordination among PCU staff that led to shortcomings with acceptance of works, among
other issues.

6.21 Financial management performance was uneven over time, with significant and
lasting improvement occurring only in 2009 and 2010. Audits were on time and unqualified.
Procurement performance was also mixed. Changes in staffing resulted in the hiring of at
least one procurement officer who lacked experience with procurement under Bank-
supported operations, necessitating a large amount of on-the-job training with the help of the
Bank. At some points during implementation, there was limited coordination between
procurement and financial management planning, and procurement plans included activities
well beyond the budget available under the project. This issue was rectified and procurement
management improved during the last two-and-a-half years of the project, with the PCU
effectively managing complex procurement processes related to hardware for the IHIS.

Monitoring and Evaluation
6.22 M&E Design: The Project Appraisal Document outlined a comprehensive plan for
monitoring and evaluation, with precisely specified output and outcome indicators, and
linkages of those indicators to the project’s planned activities and achievement of objectives.
The M&E plan further specified anticipated additional uses for the project’s outcome data,
including guidance to the Prime Minister and other high-level government entities on the
                                                 31


functioning of the MOH, HIF, and overall health reform process. There was a clear timeline
for data collection and analysis, and explicit assignment of responsibility for various types
and levels of data collection. Progress on some of the project’s indicators could not be
attributed directly or only to the project, however, measuring progress in the entire health
sector rather than just the project. It was also not clear during design that resources were
specifically and adequately allocated for data collection, and that data were available for each
indicator.

6.23 M&E Implementation: While the Policy Analysis Unit was to be responsible for
evaluating the impact of project activities and monitoring project performance indicators for
the duration of the project, the PCU component coordinators actually took the lead in
obtaining data. Three types of indicators were monitored and reported regularly: results
indicators associated with investments and expenditures; intermediate indicators associated
with implementation of the project’s components; and outcome indicators aimed at
measuring progress in achievement of objectives. Most project indicators were closely
related to official state statistical data, and the quality and availability of official data are low
in Macedonia. Most reliable information comes from the HIF, as physicians have incentives
to respond to HIF requests. Overall, attention to M&E during project implementation was
relatively low, with data collection on project indicators done mainly in specific preparation
for the Bank’s mid-term review and ICR missions.

6.24 M&E Utilization: M&E was used not only as a management tool to evaluate the
status of implementation of activities, but also to inform policy makers for decision-making
purposes, specifically to help prioritize activities to support the reform agenda.

6.25    Quality of Monitoring and Evaluation is rated Modest.

7. Lessons and Conclusions
7.1     Close coordination of policy lending and investment lending can greatly facilitate
achievement of reforms. In this case, health reforms supported by the project and health
aspects of the adjustment operations were supervised closely by the same health team,
ensuring that policy dialogue with the government was consistent and linked to the overall
macro-level dialogue between the government and the Bank. Importantly, although the
policy lending included reforms across several sectors, there was a sustained sector focus on
health that was central to achieving important synergies with the investment operations.

7.2     Political obstacles can be overcome with effective planning and consultation –
but will be insurmountable otherwise. An appropriate political enabling environment and
incentive structure, achieved through careful political economy analysis and planning, were
crucial for the success of reforms supporting family medicine and DRGs. Hospital
rationalization and reform of the basic benefits package, however, have withered in the face
of presumed political impossibility. Furthermore, where possible, sheltering project
implementation from politics allows focus on implementation and appropriate attention to
desired outcomes. In this project, the appointment of the deputy prime minister as project
coordinator resulted in frequent personnel turnover (as ministers changed) and resultant
delays in project activities. The need for independent, stable project management trumps any
                                              32


benefits that may accrue from presumed proximity to the health minister. The project
manager should be chosen by agreement between the Bank and the MOH as a bridge person,
someone with political access but who is not reporting and subject to the MOH on a daily
basis.

7.3     Information technology (IT) components of health sector reform frequently
encounter delays, whose risk can be mitigated through careful planning and flexibility.
IT components should begin implementation as soon as possible, so that the technology
keeps pace with the other project elements it is supporting, and they should be sufficiently
flexible to adapt to projects as they evolve. Ideally, Bank teams should directly incorporate
IT experts to prevent and manage delays and inefficiencies.

7.4     Qualified regional experts can be extremely effective as consultants and trainers.
Family medicine and other experts from Slovenia and other former Yugoslav countries, with
their in-depth local knowledge, provided a valuable complement to Western subject-matter
experts. These consultants also contributed important demonstration effects of successful
reform in other parts of the region.

Epilogue. Restructuring post-socialist health care systems is invariably a lengthy and
politically contentious process that involves both strengthening of long-neglected primary
care and rationalizing the hospital sector (Streveler 2009). Generally, these steps are
sequenced, with attention paid first to primary care and then, once capacity has been
developed to absorb the increased demand for primary care that will result from hospital
rationalization, increased efficiencies sought from the inpatient side. In Macedonia, primary
care development and hospital rationalization were implemented practically simultaneously.
The Bank was instrumental in overcoming political opposition to the primary care reforms,
resulting in a swift and successful privatization process, shift to a capitation model of
payment, and acceptance of family medicine that proceeded much more rapidly and
smoothly than in other countries in the region. Hospital rationalization, however, has been
partially stymied by political factors, and full realization and consolidation of the project’s
objectives will depend on consistent political commitment. Without a follow-on Bank
investment project, many observers and stakeholders question whether that commitment is
likely to be forthcoming. The best promise for continued reform may stem from the lure of
EU accession, which will demand demonstration of competent and efficient public sector
management.
                                                   33


References
Buble, Tonći. 2010. “Technical Assistance on Pricing and Reimbursement Policy of Pharmaceuticals in
        Macedonia.” Ministry of Health, Republic of Macedonia.
Burazeri, Genc, Ulrich Laaser, Vesna Bjegovic, Lidia Georgieva. 2005. “Regional Collaboration in Public
         Health Training and Research among Countries of South Eastern Europe.” European Journal of Public
         Health 15(1): 97-99.
Center for Research and Policy Making. No date. “Rationalization of Health Care Services in Macedonia. Case
         Studies: Skopje, Tetovo, Sveti Nikole, Negotino.” Skopje.
Colombini, Manuela, Bernd Rechel, and Susannah H. Mayhew. 2012. “Access of Roma to Sexual and
       Reproductive Health Services: Qualitative Findings from Albania, Bulgaria, and Macedonia.” Global
       Public Health 7(5): 522-534.
Delva, Wim, Francoise Wuillaume, Stijn Vansteelandt, Patricia Claeys, Hans Verstraelen, Davy Vanden
        Broeck, and Marleen Temmerman. 2008. “HIV Testing and Sexually Transmitted Infection Care
        among Sexually Active Youth in the Balkans.” AIDS Patient Care and STDs 22(10): 817-821.
Dimeski, Branko K. 2011. “A Review of Public Health Reforms (1991-2010): An Experience from
        Macedonia.” Webmedcentral Public Health 2(9).
Donev, Doneo M. 1999. “Health Insurance System in the Republic of Macedonia.” Croatian Medical Journal
        40(2).
_____. 2004. “Revitalization of Academic Medicine in Macedonia – An Urgent Need.” Croatian Medical
        Journal 45(6): 677-683.
Dredge, Robert. 2005. “Inception Report of the Policy Analysis Unit Advisor.” Ministry of Health, Republic of
        Macedonia.
DRG Working Group. 2010. “Annual Report, January-December 2009.” Health Insurance Fund, Republic of
      Macedonia, Skopje.
Eikemo, Terje Andreas, Nartijn Huisman, Francesca Perlman, and Kristen Ringdal. 2009. “Educational Health
        Inequalities in Former Yugoslavia: Evidence from the South-East European Social Survey Project.”
        European Journal of Public Health 20(6): 640-646.
European Commission. 2007. “Social Protection and Social Inclusion in the Former Yugoslav Republic of
        Macedonia.”
Farley, Donna O, Robert Nordyke, and John W. Peabody. 1997. “Economic Efficiency of the Macedonian
         Health System: Analysis of Government and Household Survey Data.” Report DRU-1695-WB, The
         RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, CA.
Gerovski, Filip. 2011. “Compliance with International Standards on Patients’ Rights and Implementation of the
        Law on the Protection of Patients’ Rights in the Republic of Macedonia.” Medicine and Law 30: 179-
        186.
Gjorgjev, Dragan, Angelina Bacanovic, Snezana Cicevalieva, Zlate Sulevski, and Susanne Grosse-Tebbe. 2006.
        “The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: Health System Review.” Health Systems in Transition
        8(2): 1-98.
Goldman, Robert L. 1999. “Primary Health Care in the Reforms of the Health Care System: An Analysis of
       Reformation Schemes of Emerging and Developing Countries as Applied to the Republic of
       Macedonia.” Health Marketing Quarterly 17(2): 87-93.
Government of Macedonia. 2000. “Health Insurance Law.” Official Gazette 25.
_____. 2005. “Law on Health Insurance.” Official Gazette 119.
                                                     34

Hajioff, Steve, Gordana Pecelj, and Fimka Tozija. 2000. “The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: Health
         Care Systems in Transition.” European Observatory on Health Care Systems, Who Regional Office
         for Europe, Copenhagen.
Health Insurance Fund of Macedonia. 2004. “Godishen Izveshtaj: 2003” (in Macedonian). Skopje.
_____. 2005. “Godishen Izveshtaj: 2004” (in Macedonian). Skopje.
_____. 2006. “Godishen Izveshtaj: 2005” (in Macedonian). Skopje.
_____. 2007. “Godishen Izveshtaj: 2006” (in Macedonian). Skopje.
_____. 2008. “Annual Report: 2007.” Skopje.
_____. 2009a. “Annual Report: 2008.” Skopje.
_____. 2009b. “Strategic Plan: 2010-2015.” Skopje.
_____. 2011. “Annual Report: 2010.” Skopje.
_____. 2012. “Annual Report: 2011.” Skopje.
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Finance Corporation. 2007. “Country
         Partnership Strategy for the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for the Period FY07-FY10.”
         Report No. 38840-MK. Washington, DC. .
International Monetary Fund. 2006. “Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: 2006 Article IV Consultation –
         Staff Report; Public Information Notice on the Executive Board Discussion; and Statement by the
         Executive Director for the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,” IMF Country Report No.
         06/344. Washington, DC.
Ivanovska, Liljana, and Ilir Ljuma. 1999. “Health Sector Reform in the Republic of Macedonia.” Croatian
        Medical Journal 40(2).
Janevic, Teresa, Pooja Sripad, Elizabeth Bradley, and Vera Dimitrievska. 2011. “’There’s No Kind of Respect
         Here.’ A Qualitative Study of Racism and Access to Maternal Health Care among Romani Women in
         the Balkans.” International Journal for Equity in Health 10(53).
Jasovic-Siveska, Emilija, and Vladimir Jasovic. 2011. “Demographic Characteristics in Preeclamptic Women in
         Macedonia.” Revista Medica de Chile 139: 748-754.
Jeffery, Heather E., Mirjana Kocova, Fimka Tozija, Dragan Gjorgiev, Marina Pop-Lazarova, Kirsty Foster, Jan
         Polverino, David A. Hill. 2004. “The Impact of Evidence-Based Education on a Perinatal Capacity-
         Building Initiative in Macedonia.” Medical Education 38: 435-447.
Karadzinska-Bislimovska, Jovanka, J. Minov, Snezana Risteska-Kuc, S. Stoleski, D. Mijakoski, S. Todorov,
        Vera Basarovska, Marija Kisman-Hristovska, and Teuta Agai-Demjaha. 2010. “National Survey on
        Identifying Vulnerable Workers and Availability of Occupational Health Services in the Republic of
        Macedonia.” Medicina del Lavoro 101(4): 262-275.
Kjosev, Sasho and Pece Nedanovski. 2008. “Health Care System in the Republic of Macedonia: Current
        Situation and Development Perspectives.” RevistaTinerilorEconomisti1(11): 71-77.
Lazarevik, Vladimir. 2010. “Policy Interventions to Tackle Health Inequities in Macedonia: Patient Rights and
        Reference Pricing of Pharmaceuticals.” Macedonian Journal of Medical Sciences 3(1): 57-60.
Menon, Soniya. 2006. “Decentralization and Health Care in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.”
       International Journal of Health Planning and Management 21: 3-21.
Milevska-Kostova, Marija Gulija, Ivana Tomovska, and Kiril Jakimovski. 2011. “Equity in Health in
        Macedonia: Socio-Economic and Financial Aspects and Effects of Policy Changes on the Access to
        Prescription Medicines in Primary Healthcare.” Unpublished research paper.
Ministry of Health of the Republic of Macedonia. 2007. “Health Strategy of the Republic of Macedonia, 2020:
         Safe, Efficient, and Just Health Care System.” Skopje.
                                                     35


_____. Health Sector Management Project, Project Coordination Unit. 2006. “Strategy for the Development of
        Macedonian Integrated Health Information System.” Skopje.
Minov, Jordan, Jovanka Karadzinska-Bislimovska, Kristin Vasilevska, Zlatka Nelovska, Snezana Risteska-Kuc,
        Saso Stoleski, and Dragan Mijakoski. 2012. “Smoking among Macedonian Workers Five Years after
        the Anti-Smoking Campaign.” Archives of Industrial Hygiene and Toxicology 63: 207-213.
Nordyke, Robert J. 2000. “Privatization of Health Care Provision in a Transition Economy: Lessons from the
       Republic of Macedonia.” Dissertation, RAND Graduate School. Santa Monica, CA.
____________. 2002. “Determinants of PHC Productivity and Resource Utilization: A Comparison of Public
       and Private Physicians in Macedonia.” Health Policy 60: 67-96.
Nordyke, Robert J., and John W. Peabody. 2003. “Market Reforms and Public Incentives: Finding a Balance in
       the Republic of Macedonia.” Social Science & Medicine 54: 939-953.
Onceva, Silvana, Doncho Donev, and Ilija Gligorov. 2001. “Tobacco Smoking, Alcohol and Drug Consumption
        among Youngsters in the Republic of Macedonia.” Medical Archive 55(1): 27-28.
Peabody, John W., Robert J. Nordyke, Fimka Tozija, Jeff Luck, Jorge A. Muñoz, Anne Sunderland, Karen De
        Salvo, Ninez Ponce, and Charles McCulloch. 2006. “Quality of Care and Its Impact on Population
        Health: A Cross-Sectional Study from Macedonia.” Social Science & Medicine 62: 2216-2224.
Peabody, John W., Fimka Tozija, Jorge A. Munoz, Robert J. Nordyke, and Jeff Luck. 2004. “Using Vignettes to
        Compare the Quality of Clinical Care Variation in Economically Divergent Countries.” HSR: Health
        Services Research 39(6): 1951-1970.
Petrova, G.I. 2001. “Monitoring of National Drug Politic: Regional Comparison between Bulgaria, Romania,
         Macedonia, Bosnia Herzegovina.” Central European Journal of Public Health 9(4): 205-213.
__________. 2002. “Prescription Patterns Analysis: Variations among Bulgaria, Romania, Macedonia, and
       Bosnia Herzegovina.” Central European Journal of Public Health 10(3): 100-103.
Rechel, Bernd, and Martin McKee. 2009. “Health Reform in Central and Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet
        Union.” The Lancet 374:1186-95.
Schneider, Pia. 2007. “Provider Payment Reforms: Lessons from Europe and America for South Eastern
        Europe.” Policy Note, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Seiter, Andreas. 2010. A Practical Approach to Pharmaceutical Policy. The World Bank, Washington, DC.
Shosholcheva, Marjana, Dragan Gjorgiev, and Fimka Tozija. 2011. “Attitude of the Macedonian Intensivists
        Regarding Withdrawal of Therapy in Intensive Care Patients: Curriculum for Policy Development.”
        Medical Archives 65(6): 339-342.
Spiroski, Igor, Zlatanka Dimitrovska, Dragan Gjorgiev, Vladimir Mikik, Vesna Efremova-Stefanoska, Daniela
         Naunova-Spiroska, and Vladimir Kendroski. 2011. “Nutritional Status and Growth Parameters of
         School-Age Roma Children in the Republic of Macedonia.” Central European Journal of Public
         Health 19(2): 102-107.
Streveler, Dennis J. 2009. Summary of “Health Management Information Systems: Linking Payers and
         Providers: A 2009 Update,” chapter 5 in John C. Langenbrunner, Cheryl Cashin, and Sheila
         O’Dougherty, Designing and Implementing Health Care Provider Payment Systems: How-To
         Manuals. World Bank and United States Agency for International Development. Washington, DC.
World Bank. 1996. “Staff Appraisal Report, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Health Sector Transition
       Project.” Report No. 15399-MK. Washington, DC.
_____. 2002. “FYR of Macedonia: Public Expenditure and Institutional Review,” Report No. 23349-MK.
        Washington, DC.
_____. 2003. “Implementation Completion Report on a Loan/Credit/Grant to the Former Yugoslav Republic of
        Macedonia for a Health Sector Transition Project.” Report No. 25735-MK. Washington, DC.
                                                  36

_____. 2004. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$ 10 million to the Former
        Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for a Health Sector Management Project.” Report No. 2770-MK.
        Washington, DC.
_____. 2005. “Implementation Completion Report on a Loan/Credit/Grant to the Former Yugoslav Republic of
        Macedonia for a Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan 2 (PSMAL 2).” Report No. 34473-MK.
        Washington, DC.
_____. 2007. “FYR of Macedonia: Public Expenditure Review.” Washington, DC.
_____. 2009a. “Implementation Completion and Results Report on Programmatic Development Policy Loans in
        the Amounts of US$ 30 million, US$ 30 million, and US$ 25 million to the Former Yugoslav Republic
        of Macedonia.” Report No. ICR00001117. Washington, DC.
_____. 2009b. “Program Document for a Proposed First Programmatic Development Policy Loan in the
        Amount of EUR 20.5 million (US$ 30 million equivalent) to the Former Yugoslav Republic of
        Macedonia.” Report No. 50883-MK. Washington, DC.
_____. 2009c. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of Euro 19.3 million (USD 25
        million equivalent) to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for a Conditional Cash Transfers
        Project.” Report No. 47195-MK. Washington, DC.
_____. 2010. “Country Partnership Strategy for the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for the Period
        FY11-FY14.” Report No. 54928-MK. Washington, DC.
_____. 2011a. “Implementation Completion and Results Report for the First Programmatic Development Policy
        Loan in a Total Amount of EUR 20.5 million (US$ 30 million equivalent) to the Former Yugoslav
        Republic of Macedonia.” Report No. ICR00001958. Washington, DC.
_____. 2011b. “Implementation Completion and Results Report on a Loan in the Amount of US$ 10 million to
        the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for a Health Sector Management Project.” Report No
        ICR00001691. Washington, DC.
_____. 2011c. “Program Document for a Proposed Policy Based Guarantee of EUR 100 million (US$ 134.9
        million equivalent) to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.” Report No. 59914-MK.
        Washington, DC.
_____. 2012. “Program Document for a Proposed Public Expenditure Policy Based Guarantee in the Amount
        of EUR 155 million (US$ 201.5 million equivalent) to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.”
        Report No. 72845-MK. Washington, DC.
World Health Organization. 2011. “Country Cooperation Strategy at a Glance.”
Zantea-Naumoska, Magdalena, and Polenakovic Momir. 2008. “Sixty Years since the Foundation of the
        Medical Faculty at the SS Cyril and Methodius University in Skopje, R. Macedonia (1948-2007).”
        Contributions (Journal of the Macedonian Academy of Sciences and Arts)XXIX(1): 303-307.
                                                 37                                        ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA HEALTH
SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (P086670)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                Appraisal          Actual or          Actual as percent of
                                                estimate        current estimate       appraisal estimate
Total project costs                              11.34               11.62                  102.46
Loan amount                                      10.00               9.56                    95.60
Cofinancing                                       1.34               2.06                   153.00
Cancellation                                      0.00               0.44                    0.00


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                     FY05        FY06       FY07     FY08     FY09        FY10       FY11
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                0.15     2.55       6.55    9.00     10.00       10.00      10.00
Actual (US$M)                            0.61     0.64       1.75    4.12      5.05       5.75       9.56
Actual as percent of appraisal      406.66       25.09      26.71    45.77    50.050      57.50      95.60
Date of final disbursement: 05/11/2011


Project Dates
                                                         Original                        Actual
Initiating memorandum                                 10/07/2003                      10/07/2003
Negotiations                                          03/15/2004                      04/15/2004
Board approval                                        04/29/2004                      05/13/2004
Signing                                               07/15/2004                      07/15/2004
Effectiveness                                         09/15/2004                      09/15/2004
Closing date                                          06/30/2009                      12/31/2010
ANNEX A                                         38


Staff Time and Cost
Stage of Project Cycle                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                    US$ Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
Lending                                                            travel and consultants costs)
              FY04                                52                         236.88
                         Total:                   52                         236.88
Supervision/ICR
              FY05                                34                         100.38
              FY06                                42                         116.96
              FY07                                31                          80.78
              FY08                                51                          91.59
              FY09                                38                          97.74
              FY10                                26                         107.79
              FY11                                11                          63.91
                         Total:                   197                        659.15



Mission Data
                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                               Title                Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending

Jan Bultman               Sr. Health Specialist                  ECSHD Team Leader
Loraine Hawkins           Sr. Economist                          ECSHD Economist
Silviu Radulescu          Health Specialist                      ECSHD Health
Rajna Cemerska            Project Officer                        ECSS2     Operations
Monique Mrazek            Pharmaceutical Specialist              HNP       Pharmaceuticals
Lazslo Balkanyi           Health Information Systems Consultant ECSHD IT
Anna Wielogorska          Sr. Procurement Specialist             ECSHD Procurement
Maria Gracheva            Operations Officer                     ECSHD Operations
Rossen Papazov            Financial Management Officer           ECSS2     FM
Sarbani Chakrabotry       Health Specialist                      ECSHD Health Economics
Gryorgy Novotny           Project Management (Consultant)        ECSHD Project Manag.
Supervision/ICR
Jan Bultman               Sr. Health Specialist                  ECSHD Team Leader
Dominic Haazen            Sr. Health Specialist                  ECSHD Team Leader
Daniel Dulitzky           Sr. Economist                          ECSHD Team Leader
                                                 39                         ANNEX A


                                                                      Responsibility/
         Names                               Title            Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Nedim Jaganjac           Sr. Health Specialist              ECSHD Team Leader
Zarko Bogoev             Operations Officer                 ECSS2    Procurement
Marija Gulija            Health Specialist                  ECSHD Health
Rajna Cemerska-Krtova    Operations Officer                 ECSH3    Operations
Sarbani Chakraborty      Sr. Health Specialist              EASHH Health/economics
Olav Rex Christensen     Senior Public Finance Specialist   HDNED Public Finance
Anna Wielogorska         Sr. Procurement Specialist         ECSHD Procurement
Aleksandar Crnomarkovic Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3    Financial Manag.
Marija Gulija            Health Specialist Consultant       ECSHD Health
Zlatan Sabic             Information Technology Spec.       ECSHD IT
Kari L. Hurt             Senior Operations Officer          ECSH1    Operations
Johannes Koettl          Economist                          ECSH4    Economics
Augustina M. Nikolova    Senior Program Assistant           CFPPM
Jasminka Sopova          Program Assistant                  ECCMK
Johanne Angers           Sr. Operations Officer             ECSHD ICR TL
Betty Hanan              Implementation Specialist (Consultant) ECSHD ICR Author
                                           41                                   ANNEX B


Annex B. List of Persons Met
   • World Bank
AndrejaArsovski, Medical Director, Remedika General Hospital (first Principal Project
       Coordinator)
Denis Bosovski, Operations Analyst, Acting Country Manager (June 2012)
Rajna Cemerska, Operations Officer
Dominic Haazen, Task Team Leader (2004-2008)
Nedim Jaganjac, Task Team Leader (2010-2011)
Sofija Karagjorgjeva, Financial Expert, Project Implementation Unit, GEF Sustainable
       Energy Project (HSMP Financial Management Expert)
Vladimir Lazarevik, Founder and CEO, Healthgrouper (fourth Principal Project Coordinator)
Gordana Majnova, Deputy Head, Department for Quality Health Services (third Principal
       Project Coordinator)
Evgenij Najdov, Economist, Central Asia Regional Office (Task Team Leader for Macedonia
       Development Policy Loan)
Nikola Panovski, Professor of Microbiology, Medical Faculty of State University (second
       Principal Project Coordinator)
Vladimir Popovski, Head of Clinic, University Clinic for Maxillofacial Surgery (fifth and last
       Principal Project Coordinator)
Zorica Uzunovska, Assistant Project Coordinator
Katerina Venovska, Assistant Project Coordinator
Anna Wielogorska, Senior Procurement Specialist

   • Government of Macedonia
Branko Adzigogov, Director of Supervision and Public Relations, Health Insurance Fund
Zhaklina Chagorska, IT Advisor, Ministry of Health
Tatjana Lukanovska, Finance Director, Health Insurance Fund
Maja Parnardzieva-Zmejkova, General Manager, Health Insurance Fund
Kristina Pavlovska, Department of International Finance, Ministry of Finance
Vasilka Salevska-Trajkova, Cabinet of the Minister, Ministry of Health
Georgi Trenkoski, Director, Health Insurance Fund (2006-2009)
ANNEX B                                    42


   • Other
Kocho Chakalaroski, Head, Doctors’ Chamber
Dragan Gjorgjev, Policy Advisor, Institute for Public Health
Vladimir Kendrovski, Institute for Public Health
Katarina Stavrik, Head, Family Medicine Education Center, Skopje
Sasha Stojchev, Chief Executive Director, City General Hospital 8 September, Skopje
Fimka Tozija, Policy Advisor, Institute for Public Health
                                          43                                  ANNEX D


Annex C. Tables
Table 6. HSMP Outcome Indicators
Indicator                     Baseline       Target      Achievement
OBJECTIVE # 1: UPGRADE MOH AND HIF CAPACITY TO FORMULATE AND EFFECTIVELY
IMPLEMENT HEALTH POLICIES, HEALTH INSURANCE, FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, AND
CONTRACTING OF PROVIDERS.
Amount of collected HIF       14.9 billion   5% increase 15.2 (2005), 16.5 (2006), 19.7
contributions                 Dinars (2004)              billion Dinars (2009), increase of
                                                         13.2%
Number of contributors to     91, 957 (2004) 5% increase 80,305 (2006), 83,000 (2007),
HIF                                                      110,451 (2010), increase of 12% --
                                                         includes 90,146 paying
                                                         contributors and 20,805 people
                                                         whose contributions are being paid
                                                         by the government
Administrative costs and      n/a            Reduction   Indicator became irrelevant
personnel input for the                                  through a 2006 arrangement for the
issuance of health insurance                             Post Office to issue health
cards                                                    insurance cards
Number of drugs purchased     105,334 drugs, Reduction   95,462 drugs, 76.3 million Dinars
in non-HIF contracted         84.2 million               (2005)
pharmacies and reimbursed     Dinars (2004)              133,666 drugs, 267.2 million
by HIF                                                   Dinars (2006)
                                                         14% decrease (2009)
Out-of-pocket payments for    Data not       Decline     Data not available
health care and drugs among   available
groups eligible for HIF co-
payment waivers
Clinical guidelines developed 18: 15 for     15          Original 18 were updated and 14
according to international    primary care               more were developed; all were
standards and distributed     and 3 for                  distributed in hard and soft copy
                              secondary care             and made available on-line;
                                                         implementation status is unclear
Yearly HIF audits acceptable n/a             Annual      Achieved, with comments in
                                             unqualified management letters decreasing in
                                             audits      substance and number since 2004
                                                         (26 recommendations in 2004; 21
                                                         in 2005; 19 in 2006)
Average length of drugs       Eight months   25%         Five months (2006);
registration process, for all (2003)         decrease    15 days for centralized procedures,
drugs                                                    three months for decentralized
                                                         procedures, and three months for
                                                         mutual recognition procedures
                                                         (2009)
All practicing doctors,       0% (2004)      100%        100% (2010)
dentists, and pharmacists
licensed in accordance with
new procedures (2004
ANNEX B                                                     44


Indicator                       Baseline       Target      Achievement
transfer of licensing authority
to medical chambers)
OBJECTIVE # 2: DEVELOP AND IMPLEMENT AN EFFICIENT SCHEME OF RESTRUCTURING OF
HOSPITAL SERVICES WITH EMPHASIS ON DEVELOPING DAY-CARE SERVICES AND SHIFTING TO
PRIMARY CARE.
Average length of stay, all     11.5 days      Decrease by 6.13 days (2010), a 53% reduction
hospitals                       (2002)         15%
Outpatient surgeries for select 13,151 (2005)  20%         41,500 (2009)
indications                                    increase
Number of hospital              72,226 (2004)  30%         3,488 (2008)
readmissions for the same                      decrease
condition within a three-
month time period
Number of referrals to          2,139,361 to   10%         10% decrease (2009)
outpatient specialists and to   outpatient     decrease
hospitals                       specialists
                                (public and
                                private, 2004)
Number of contracted health     n/a            30%         Full data not available. All
care providers complying                                   providers are supposed to be using
with newly developed clinical                              guidelines, but full compliance
guidelines                                                 may be limited due to lack of
                                                           necessary medical equipment.
Source: ICR, Implementation Status Reports, Aides-Memoire


Table 7. HSMP Output/Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Indicator                            Baseline                Target              Achievement
Medium-term MOH health               No strategy             Strategy            Strategy completed and
sector strategy developed            (2004)                  completed           adopted for period 2005-2015
and approved                                                                     (2006), extended to 2020 in
                                                                                 June 2007
Public information strategy          No strategy             Strategy            Strategy developed and
for health reform                    (2004)                  developed           adopted in February 2007, with
developed and applied to                                                         strategy and implementation
health sector policy                                                             plan revised in 2009 and 2010
development
HIF Board structure and              HIF Board was           Board structure     Board structure and operations
operation revised                    not performing          and operations      were revised, with four-year
                                     financial               revised             appointments and functions
                                     oversight                                   specified in operational manual
                                     function (2004)
Hospital contracts revised           17 contracts            Revised contracts   Contracts for all hospitals are
on the basis of evaluation           concluded                                   now signed annually using new
study of first phase of              (2004)                                      provider payment mechanisms
hospital contract
implementation
Contracted primary health            n/a                     75%                 PHC 88%, Hospitals 70%
                                                            45                               ANNEX A


Indicator                            Baseline               Target           Achievement
care providers are correctly                                                 (2005)
collecting and analyzing                                                     PHC 90%, Hospitals 75%
data for contract                                                            (2006)
compliance                                                                   100% (2010)
Business plans prepared              No plans               n/a              100% (2010)
according to standards by            developed
health care institutions
Public expenditure                   No survey              1                No survey was undertaken, but
tracking survey of funding                                                   a Public Expenditure Review
for priority public health                                                   in 2008 included detailed
services completed                                                           information on public health
(baseline and one follow-                                                    expenditures
up)
Action Plan for improving            No plan                Implementation   Action Plan was prepared and
revenue collection based                                    of Action Plan   implemented, including
on external audit of HIF                                                     recommendations by the State
                                                                             Audit Office, which now
                                                                             conducts annual audits of HIF
Project deliverables                 n/a                    Activities       All activities completed, but
implemented and                                             completed        quarterly progress reports for
evaluated in an efficient                                                    the entire project were not
manner and on a timely                                                       prepared systematically
basis
Source: ICR, Implementation Status Reports, Aides-Memoire
