Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFaCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13178
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1718-KEN)
JUNE 17, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1718-KE'
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$1.00 (at Appraisal) = SDR 1.13
US$1.00 (at Completion) = SDR 1.33
ABBREVIATIONS
ASAO          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
ASMP          Agricultural Sector Management Project
ATAP          Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
DPD           Development Planning Division of MOA/MOLD
DRSRS         Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing
FAO/CP        Food & Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
GIS           Geographical Information System
GOK           Government of the Republic of Kenya
HIID          Harvard Institute for International Development
IDA           International Development Association
ISC           Inspectorate of State Corporations
KREMU         Kenya Rangelands Ecological Monitoring Unit
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MOALD         Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOLD          Ministry of Livestock Development
MPND          Ministry of Planning and National Development
NCPB          National Cereals and Produce Board
NIB           National Irrigation Board
PCC           Project Coordinating Committee
PC            Project Coordinator
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
TAP           Technical Assistance Pool
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEARS
Government           =  July 1 - June 30
IDA                  =  July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offics of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 17, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Kenya -
Agricultural Sector Management (Credit 1718-KEN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Kenya Agricultural Sector Management
(Credit 1718-KEN) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower prepared Part II.
The project supported  development of seven public-sector agricultural institutions.  It
provided TA and material support for improving budgetting procedures, management, sector-policy
development, and rationalization-including reducing costs-of parastatal operations.
Numerous staff received training for graduate degrees (36 MAs and PHDs) or short-term in-
country courses. A university-based consultant organization did an excellent job in managing the very
diverse training program. Progress was good in introducing procedures that enhanced the operational
capacity of the Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing. Government budget
procedures were improved by more intensive use of computers. Finance for these undertakings took
more than two thirds of the IDA credit.
The work on improving parastatal performance never got started. (This work was to help
fulfill covenants in the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation.) Low government wages made it
impossible to adequately staff parts of the organizations to be reformed, or to retain some of the staff
that received graduate degrees under the project.  Ignoring the problem  of poor civil service
incentives reduced the sustainability of the institutional development that the project fomented.
On balance, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, sustainability as uncertain, and
institutional development as substantial.
The PCR is adequate. Part II is consistent with Part I, but not completely. In Part II, the
Borrower notes that during preparation "there was an overstatement of the TA required and the
views of the institutions concerned had not been taken seriously." During implementation the
Borrower cut long-term technical assistance far below what had been programmed, notwithstanding
Bank resistance.
No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLEMION REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1718-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE    .............          ........ .....  ......  ........................ i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................... ........................ ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .........................  1
Background and Sector Context ...........          ..............  1
Project Objectives and Description . .........................  2
Project Design and Organization ...........        ..............  3
Project Implementation .........................  4
Project Results and Impact .........          ................  10
Sustainability ..........................                                12
Bank Performance .........................   14
Borrower Performance .........................   14
Lessons .........................   14
Project Relationships .........................   16
Consultant Services .........................   16
Project Documentation and Data . .........................  16
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA/Bank Loans/Credits .20
Project Timetable .21
Cumulative IDA Credit Disbursements .22
Project Implementation Indicators .23
Project Costs and Financing .26
Project Results .28
Status of Major Covenants .29
Use of IDA/Bank Resources .30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of thedr
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlc authorization.l






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1718-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Sector Management Project
(ASMP) in Kenya, for which IDA Credit 1718-KE, in the amount of SDR 10.2 million (equivalent to
US$ 11.5 million) was approved on February 10, 1987. The project was to be cofinanced by CIDA,
UNDP, USAID, and SIDA in the amount of US$ 4.5 million. However, as a result of disagreement
between the non-IDA donors and Government of Kenya, regarding technical assistance arrangements,
this financing was withdrawn - effectively reducing the size of the funding and leaving IDA as the
only committed donor. A total of some SDR 9.9 million (US$ 13.2 million) or 97 percent of the
Credit was disbursed; the undisbursed balance of SDR 312,000 was cancelled in June 1993. The
Credit closed one year behind schedule on December 31, 1992.
This PCR was prepared by the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division, Eastern
Africa Department, Africa Region. This report is based, inter alia, on the Project Implementation
Volume, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and
the Borrower, internal IDA memoranda, and information gathered by the FAO/CP mission which
visited Kenya in July 1992.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1718-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Objectives:  The Bank's operational program in Kenya sought to counter major sector
development constraints and to stimulate agricultural growth through actions to: improve basic
services - extension, research, input supply, marketing and credit; address key physical resource
management issues; support better policy planning and implementation; reduce management and
institutional constraints; and, build local capacity through technical assistance (TA) and training of
agricultural sector staff. IDA's TA operations in Kenya began with the Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project (ATAP; Cr. 1277-KE) which initiated important programs for institutional
strengthening, focusing on management and budgeting in the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development (MOALD) and related public enterprises. As institution building is a long-term and
continuous process, a second phase project - the Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP;
Cr. 1718-KE) was introduced to consolidate the efforts initiated under ATAP, expanding project
coverage to include a number of institutions in the sector.
2.     ASMP was also designed to be an essential complement to the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation (ASAO; Cr. 1717-KE), by supporting reform in several key areas, notably,
sector policy and management, budget rationalization and parastatal management. ASMP's scope and
scale addressed the sectoral priorities and objectives of strengthening Government capability in the
formulation, analysis and implementation of agricultural policy, efficient management of resources
(financial, human and physical) in key ministries, and enhanced public sector capacity to implement
programs and projects. The project was essentially an umbrella operation which primarily impacted
the following ministries and sector agencies, viz., Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
(MOALD), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Planning and National Development (MPND),
Department of Resource Surveys & Remote Sensing (DRSRS), the Inspectorate of State Corporations
(ISC), National Cereals & Produce Board (NCPB) and National Irrigation Board (NIB).
3.    Implementation Experience: Project start-up had to be deferred by nearly six months to
March 1987, due to delays related to the finalization of various aspects of project design,
implementation and cofinancing arrangements. The slippage primarily stemmed from delays in the
definition of the parastatal reform package and revisions in the TA component, as well as from issues
relating to the establishment of financing and administration arrangements for the TA component. Due
to the collapse of the proposed third phase of the Technical Assistance Pool, TAP III (an arrangement
wherein donors financed the TA recruitment and training coordination services provided to GOK by
an external agency), some US$ 4.5 million in donor funding was withdrawn, effectively reducing the
size of the project and leaving IDA as the only committed donor. However, actual total costs as of
end December 1992 are estimated at US$ 19.7 million (including GOK contribution of US$ 6.5
million) or 95 % of the appraisal estimate - a result of the depreciation of the project currencies
against the SDR. A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) was set up to serve as a forum for
exchange of information, and to assemble project-level information. A senior MOALD official was
appointed PC; however, due to the restructuring of MOALD, the PC's role had been weakened and
his function of providing focus and guidance on project activities and issues was merely a token one.



iii
In retrospect, at this juncture it may have been advisable to set up an inter-ministerial PCC, but this
was not done. The heads of various agencies/ministries implemented project activities in their
respective institutions. Despite various start-up and implementation delays, the Credit closing date was
only extended by one year to December 31, 1992.
4.     TA had become a highly politicized and sensitive issue in Kenya by the mid-1980s; thus,
although ASMP was prepared by IDA staff after extensive consultations with the participating
institutions in Kenya, the TA needs of the various project entities were reviewed and revised
continually over the project's life. Both the project design and Bank staff demonstrated considerable
flexibility in this respect. TAP managed the recruitment of technical advisors and short term
consultancies for MOA, MOLD, MOF, NCPB and MPND, and also administered funds for overseas
and local training as well as for some equipment and vehicles. TA was recruited directly through
independent contracts for DRSRS, ISC and MOF Investments Division. The training costs for
DRSRS, NIB and ISC were financed under categories (cat. 2 & 5) other than TAP. To facilitate the
administration of funds, the NIB training program was later combined with that for MOA. Four
(expatriate) resident experts (two in MOA/MOLD, one each in Treasury and NCPB) were recruited
through TAP, instead of the 8 originally planned. A Geographic Information Systems (GIS) expert
was also recruited by DRSRS. Additionally, twelve Kenyan advisors and four local research assistants
were intermittently engaged for varying periods, to assist in sector policy and project formulation and
analysis, budget reform, and information systems development within MOA, MOLD and MOF. The
employment of local experts, cognizant with local policy issues and environment, was a step in the
right direction - subscribing to the concepts of nurturing national capacity, and promoting awareness
and commitment to succeed through encouraging greater ownership by Kenyans of the process of
development. By and large, all institutions with the exception of DRSRS, NIB and the Treasury,
made ample use of their training resources. Reportedly, while overseas training progressed reasonably
well under ASMP, local training was essentially confined to a few areas such as, budgeting,
information systems and project management.
5.     A key focus of ASMP related to the introduction and effective use of a GIS financed by
ATAP, which would serve as the central tool for enhancing DRSRS capabilities for analyzing natural
resources data. After considerable delays, a resident expert was recruited to assist in installation of the
GIS, staff training and formulation of developmental projects. However, constant developments in
GIS hardware/software market led to quick obsolescence of already acquired products, and as a
result, the expectation that the GIS would facilitate production of land-use data could not be realized
fully. Nonetheless, significant progress was made in DRSRS's overall work-program and carrying out
of individual projects. The project also financed 2 small aircraft and avionics packages for DRSRS,
and three expatriate pilots were engaged for the management of DRSRS's Air Services Section
(including selection, training and deployment of local pilots). However, there was a persistent
problem of attracting sufficiently experienced Kenyan pilots for performing DRSRS's demanding and
dangerous work at non-competitive salaries. There were considerable cost over-runs in the component
due to an escalation in the cost of the aircraft and equipment procured (largely due to a two-fold
increase in aircraft costs from an appraisal estimate of US$ 222,000/aircraft), recruitment of an
additional (third) expatriate pilot and the maintenance and upgrading costs of the systems.
6.     The NCPB component got off to a difficult start, perhaps primarily as a result of the Board
functioning in 1988, without the bulk of its middle and higher level management which was removed
following a major reorganization. ASMP financed the acquisition of a mainframe computer and some
47 personal computers for NCPB. Primarily as a result of inappropriate specifications for hardware
and application packages, the mainframe procured had a limited memory and personal computers
lacked hard disks. Political interference and inaction on critical issues for long periods also hampered



iv
the decision making process. In addition to the foregoing, the revolution in the field of information
systems in the 1980s meant that upgrades of the mainframe at headquarters along with further
development of the data capture network in the field had to be undertaken at an estimated additional
cost of over US$400,000. The additional expenditure was funded through unutilized resources
earmarked for equipment and operating costs. The computer system for the Food Monitoring and
Control System (FOCMOS) and related Master Plan were completed and became operational within
months of project effectiveness; however, the computerized application systems were not utilized to
their full potential, and as late as 1990, only 5 systems out of the 18 installed under ASMP had
become operational. The use of parallel manual systems continued to dominate the monitoring of
operations and generation of reports. Considerable bottlenecks and problems in fully operationalizing
the FOCMOS information system persisted, largely due to lack of cooperation and inadequate
awareness of responsibilities and functions on the part of both the users and data processing staff;
staffing changes and resultant discontinuities at NCPB; and non-renewal of the technical advisor's
contract at the end of the first term of service. The appointment of a qualified Systems Manager to
take over from the consultant project manager was delayed due to the level of remuneration being
offered by NCPB being almost a third of the prevailing market salaries for candidates with the
requisite qualifications.
7.    A Budget Rationalization Program (BRP), was prepared and implemented through the MOF
component of ASMP under the supervision of the Budgetary Procedures Group of the Budget Supply
Department (BSD). BSD made good progress in the Forward Budget Process especially in areas of
analyzing the policy implications of the forward budget expenditures, inclusion of additional
information on level of revenues expected and external funding, utilization of the findings of the
Forward Budget Committee by Treasury in institutionalizing a system of approving the ministerial
budgetary ceilings. Both expatriate and Kenyan budget and economic advisors contributed to the
preparation of the forward budget. A Project Management System (PMS) and Project Registry were
introduced within MOA/MOLD, with the objective of improving the project planning and budgetary
exercises. A joint (MOA/MOLD) Executive Committee was also established to follow up on
implementation of the Budget Task Force recommendations. Specific areas of improvement (in the
field of MOA/MOLD's budget preparation process), were related to the completion of four year
forward budgets (1989-92), submission of annual policy statements on priority areas, improved funds
flow reporting, enhanced participation of field and district offices in budget formulation process,
increased budgetary allocations to MOA and MOLD by 8.5 % and reduction of subsidies to
agricultural parastatals by nearly 20%. However, the preparation of a revised Budget Manual and
Budget Calendar proceeded slowly and these were completed belatedly. A number of computer
operations were also introduced in MOA/MOLD and became operational with varying degrees of
success. Although an Economic Advisor was to be provided for MPND, this did not materialize. The
start up of implementation of both the NIB (involving improvement of the accounting and financial
management systems at NIB) and ISC (focusing on strengthening of parastatal oversight institutions),
components was also slow - a result of various organizational/management issues.
8. Results:   ASMP's achievements were not spectacular; overall project ratings did not deviate
from '2" over the project's life, although in view of the existence of procurement problems and
overall management issues related to certain project components, these parameters would have
merited a "3" rating at times. Nonetheless, it should be kept in view that ASMP was implemented: (i)
in the absence of an enabling policy environment (as evidenced by the international donor
community's concern regarding the up to recent lack of GOK's commitment to an appropriate macro-
economic framework and structural reform agenda); and (ii) against a background of growing
resentment in Kenya against the use of expatriate TA. Despite such major constraints, ASMP was
able to meet its core objectives of continuing to build on the positive initiatives introduced under



v
ATAP, and providing support to ASAO through furthering public sector capacity for delivering key
services and firming the institutional base for formulation of agricultural policy. Thus, on balance, its
results may be deemed satisfactory. ASMP helped push forward the process of enhancing GOK's
capacity to design and implement sector reform measures through: the provision of resident advisors
working closely with Government officials, expansive training of personnel, provision of information
processing equipment and some enhancement of the data analysis capabilities of several sectoral
entities. A 1990 Operations Evaluation Department (OED) study which sought to assess the
effectiveness of some Bank TA interventions in Sub-Saharan Africa, concluded that ASMP continued
the work initiated under its highly successful precursor - ATAP, albeit with not the same degree of
success; this was primarily a result of GOK's decision to dramatically reduce the level of TA in the
country. GOK's disagreement over proposed TA objectives had consequences for the timeliness of
start-up/implementation, financing, provision of TA and training performance. The long-term TA
component under ASMP was slashed from the proposed 30 staff-years, to almost in half, and funds
were allocated away from training and TA for the procurement of goods (vehicles, planes,
computers), and the planned hiring of a Management and Training Expert was not effected. Some of
the TA provided was utilized in operational/functional capacities rather than advisory tasks.
Nevertheless, another review at ASMP's completion points to positive project performance and
impact; GOK's recognition of management and financial problems increased; some managerial,
operational and analytical capability was developed in the ministries and agencies; basic reforms in
the budgetary processes were introduced, and there was strengthening of the target institutions,
development of information processing systems and management procedures.
9.     ASMP supported the work programs of DRSRS and NCPB. Project impact with respect to
NCPB and DRSRS was however uneven. The GIS greatly enhanced the Departmental data quality and
analytical capability, including cartographic capabilities of DRSRS; significant progress in
implementation of independent development projects was also achieved. However, the
recruitment/training of Kenyan pilots, and the development of local expertise for the management and
operation of the GIS, did not take-off as envisaged, chiefly as a result of unattractive remuneration
levels. NCPB handles Kenya's most important staple crop, white maize. NCPB's operations (over the
years) have been primarily driven by political motives and limited economic/marketing rationale.
ASMP as a TA intervention designed to simply provide support for agricultural policy reform, did not
seek to address the thorny issue of grain marketing reform, which was indeed beyond its scope;
consequently, the Board's marketing policies have continued to impede agricultural growth and
sectoral efficacy. Only modest assistance to NCPB by way of management processes reform and the
development of the food security plan were included under the project, and even these efforts had a
reduced impact due to the various problems mentioned above in para. 6 (also refer para. 1 1).
10.   The project contributed to improvements in MOA/MOLD's budgeting process and financial
management capabilities, and the strengthening of capabilities within MOF through focusing on
rationalization of functions and processes and training of staff. Thus, in the field of budget
preparation, considerable institutional strengthening took place, particularly with the activation of the
Budget Secretariat, Budget Committee and the Task Force to facilitate the formulation and
rationalization of the budget for MOA and MOLD. Important improvements in budgetary procedures
(e.g., computerization of procedures, preparation of a Budget Manual on the Budget Calendar) were
introduced. However, it should be noted that while the actual budgetary procedure itself was
streamlined and enhanced, it did not directly result in an improved budget due to lack of Government
commitment. Project impact on parastatals, MPND, ISC and NIB was marginal due to a piecemeal
TA strategy, inadequate linkages and coordination, modest support and dispersal of project focus over
a number of small, fragmented components. Perhaps most importantly, ASMP helped underscore the
need for developing a comprehensive sectoral institutional strategy, and in this context its input in



vi
project pipeline development should be recognized. The follow-on projects, ASAO II and ASMP II
drawing on the experience of ASMP, were consequently designed to support the formulation of a
well-defined institutional development strategy.
11.    Sustainability: Clearly institution building is a long-term and evolutionary process, and in this
respect the agenda for Kenyan agriculture sector is still far from complete. However, despite set-
backs, the Bank is striving to build on previous accomplishments through constant dialogue with GOK
and careful management of the agricultural sector project portfolio. Barring absolute lack of GOK
commitment, economic problems of a colossal nature, and a complete neglect of critical structural
reform in the agricultural sector, it may be concluded that the two largest ASMP components (related
to MOA/MOLD: strengthening of financial management practices, policy analysis/ formulation/
implementation and project analysis capabilities; and DRSRS: enhancement of capacity in delivering
key services) are likely to be sustainable, and in fact are the basis for further reform under the follow-
on project, ASMP II. This project is helping in the formulation of a coherent institutional structure
for MOA/MOLD through provision of TA and training, and financing of various operations and
maintenance costs. The DRSRS support component provides broad support for key aspects of
institutional strengthening, and directly sustains fundamental activities such as the GIS, aerial surveys
and the Department's Publications Program. The reform of NCPB and of grain marketing policy -
necessary to maintain the growth of cereal production and to contain the budgetary burden - is crucial
to the sustainability of the component. Since the mid-1980s, GOK has vacillated over the reform of
the pricing/marketing of Kenya's most politicized cereal - maize. A key element of the second sector
adjustment program, related to the issue of enhanced maize pricing/marketing and improved NCPB
operations, but the second tranche of ASAO II was cancelled in December 1992, as a result of GOK's
reversal of maize movement liberalization measures. However, in the context of its continuing
dialogue with the Bank and the International Monetary Fund, GOK recently stressed its commitment
to completing maize liberalization during the first half of 1994. Additionally, recent developments in
the area of Public Enterprise (PE) reform include GOK efforts to improve the efficiency of strategic
PEs (such as NCPB). To this end, GOK has established a Department of Government Investment and
Public Enterprises (DGIPE), within MOF.
12.    Any back-tracking or neglect of stabilization policies or reform programs, would enfeeble the
achievements of ASMP. Over the past few years, the sectoral development measures introduced in
Kenya have been undermined by destabilizing fiscal imbalances and the deteriorating efficiency of the
public sector. Thus, the extent of Government's commitment to the reform agenda will be the key
determinant of the sustainability of this or any developmental interventions in Kenya by the
international donor community. Additionally, borrower ownership and commitment are critical to
ensure the future viability and success of ASMP's initiatives. Any TA interventions financed by the
Bank must thus be consistent with Kenya's developmental objectives and strategy, and be fully
endorsed by the Borrower.
13.    Lessons: The policy support and institutional development initiatives under ASMP have
helped reinforce the accomplishments under earlier TA and sector adjustment operations, and have
also in turn formed the building blocks for future institutional development and policy reform
interventions in the Kenyan agriculture sector. The project's implementation experience demonstrated
the following key lessons and findings in institution building:
(a)    This project clearly demonstrated the need for a carefully designed, comprehensive
institutional development plan accompanied by a pragmatic implementation strategy, in the absence of
which capacity building could end up as a non-sustainable ad-hoc exercise. ASMP's impact on
parastatals, MPND, ISC, NIB and even NCPB, was marginal, due to a piecemeal TA strategy,



vii
inadequate linkages and coordination, modest support and dispersal of project focus over a number of
small, fragmented components.
(b)    While TA is an essential ingredient for getting institutional strengthening measures underway,
the socio-political climate and policy environment, should be carefully weighed and factored in at the
time of designing a project; the growing political sensitivity to the issue of expatriate TA, and the
consequent lack of GOK's agreement to proposed TA objectives under ASMP, clearly had
consequences for timeliness of start-up/implementation, financing arrangements and provision of TA.
(c)    Certain systemic problems which undermined ASMP's impact, stemmed directly from
deficiencies of the Kenyan public sector; thus, the comprehensive and effective reform of the public
sector, including the Civil Service is essential for supporting development interventions such as
ASMP. The project's performance was affected by the issue of low wages/ inadequate incentive
system and the unavailability of adequate operational and managerial resources (partly attributable to
the large size of the wage bill and the country's debt service obligations). In this connection, it is
important to ensure that local salaries and other benefits are sufficiently attractive to assure the
recruitment and retention of qualified and capable local staff. Public sector institutions such as
DRSRS and NCPB have experienced considerable difficulty in attracting qualified personnel, as a
result of the non-competitive salaries they were offering; and consequently, some of the TA provided
under ASMP (e.g., pilots) has been utilized in an operational capacity. In the interest of
sustainability, it must be ensured that the TA provided is of a transient nature and is accompanied by
a clear provision for its phasing out. The hazard of TA being used for operational rather than
advisory tasks should be minimized through appropriate pay scales (to attract local expertise),
improved work planning and extensive training to build local staff.
(d)    As budget rationalization is an on-going process, measures to improve the budgetary process
and overall quality of the budget have to be constantly instituted, such that increasingly efficient use
of resources is introduced. While the BRP has achieved some success in process issues, this did not
translate into a more disciplined approach to public expenditure.
(e)    For projects containing a substantial training component, there should be a clear assignment
of responsibilities for the implementation of the training program; special attention must be given to
the design (developed in close cooperation with the Borrower). ASMP's design introduced the
focussing essential for an ambitious training and TA program, by continuing the consolidated
administration of the component by the HIID. This enabled better planning and coordination than
entrusting the component to several institutions (some of which may have lacked the management
capacity). Additionally, evaluation of training impact must be undertaken to assess improvements in
project management and enhanced efficiency, leading to specific productivity/ performance
augmentation. A large cadre of government staff were trained under ASMP, a number of whom were
trained overseas. This can be an expensive proposition which may not be sustainable over the long
run without continuous external financial support. Efforts must also be made to train people locally at
the educational institutions within regional African centers. This could be more cost effective and
would enable more people to be trained and could help advance local capability in these educational
institutions as well.
(f)    Project implementation arrangements should be reviewed periodically, so that when there are
key structural and organizational changes in the participating institutions, the
management/coordination arrangements for the project are changed accordingly. The restructuring of
some sectoral institutions meant that the PCC/PC lost a firm grip on the coordination of project
activities, and the latter's function of providing focus and guidance on project activities and issues was



viii
reduced to being a token one. In retrospect, at this juncture, it may have been advisable to set up an
inter-ministerial PCC, but this was not done.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CR 1718-KE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name                Agricultural Sector Management Project
Credit No.                  1718-KE
RVP Unit                    Eastern Africa Department
Country                     Kenya
Sector               :      Agriculture
2. Background
2.1   General: The Kenyan economy is predominantly dependent on agriculture, which employs
close to 80 percent of the total labor force. Agriculture also contributes some 30 percent to the GDP.
Additionally, through strong backward and forward linkages with the service and industries sectors,
agriculture has been an engine of growth for the economy. The performance of the sector has
however been decelerating since the early 1970s: the agricultural sector expanded at an impressive
4.7% in the decade following Independence, fell to 3.7% in the seventies, and declined further to 3%
over the 1980s. The uneven performance of Kenya's agriculture sector in the wake of the first oil
crisis of 1973 (especially the period between the mid-1970s and the early 1980s), was attributed to
adverse weather conditions' and growing limitations on the availability of arable land, in addition to
structural problems such as, stagnating use of key inputs, especially fertilizers and HYVs, declining
agricultural investment, inadequate production incentives, inefficiencies in the delivery of agricultural
services, weak public institutions and inappropriate Government policies that constrained agriculture.
2.2    A rapidly expanding population combined with a burgeoning unemployment problem and the
threat of lagging agricultural growth, underlined the urgent need for stabilization through appropriate
financial sector and budgetary actions to bring the macroeconomic program back on track. In view of
these issues and the economic importance of the sector, structural reforms and appropriate agricultural
sector policy measures to accelerate growth had become essential.
2.3    Sector Development Objectives and Strategv:  It was against this sectoral and macro-
economic backdrop that the Government of Kenya (GOK) began implementing the first phase of an
agricultural adjustment program with the support of a number of donors, including IDA. GOK's
official strategy for the agricultural sector, as set out in the Fifth Development Plan, 1984-1988,
placed heavy emphasis on smallholder production, intensification of resource use, technology
improvements, market incentives, and improved management and administrative procedures. On the
other hand, actual policies in the sector translated into a high degree of Government intervention in
some areas, and did not address key constraints to agricultural growth, which included poor
' Droughts of varying severity afflicted Kenya in 1974, 1979, 1980 and 1984; in 1990, the
preference of the sector was affected by inadequate and uneven rainfall in the main agricultural areas.



2
performance in the areas of agricultural services, policy formulation and weak analytical and
management capabilities. The Bank's operational program in Kenya2 sought to counter mnajor sector
development constraints and to stimulate growth through actions to: improve basic agricultural
services - extension, research, input supply, marketing and credit (particularly those directed to
smallholders); address key physical resource management issues - forestry and conservation; support
better policy planning and implementation; reduce management and institutional constraints; and,
build local capacity through technical assistance (TA) and training of agricultural sector staff.
2.4    IDA technical assistance operations in Kenya began with the Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project (ATAP; Cr. 1277-KE) which became effective in 1982 and was completed in
1986. ATAP initiated important programs for institutional strengthening, focusing on management and
budgeting in the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MOALD) and related public
enterprises. As institution building is a long-term and continuous process, a second phase project - the
Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP; Cr. 1718-KE) was introduced to consolidate the
efforts initiated under ATAP, expanding project coverage to include a number of institutions in the
sector. ASMP focussed on critical issues of management, finance and organization so as to provide a
firm foundation for policy formulation and program and project implementation in the agricultural
sector.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1   Proiect Obiectives: The main objectives of the project were to strengthen major public sector
agricultural institutions, through improving their capacity to manage resources (financial, human and
physical), implement programs and projects, and formulate and implement agricultural policy.
Programs aimed at improving management and budgeting initiated under ATAP were to be continued
and expanded and new initiatives introduced, primarily in strengthening oversight agencies for
parastatals, and training of government personnel (para. 2.4). ASMP was also designed to be an
essential complement to the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO; Cr. 1717-KE), by
supporting reform in several key areas, notably, sector policy and administration, budget
rationalization and parastatal management.
3.2   Proiect Description: Project components and related costs at appraisal (excluding
contingencies of US$ 3.7 million) were as follows:
(i) Part A Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) & Ministry of Livestock Development
(MOLD)3 -US$ 6.5 m: TA and support to MOA & MOLD, provided through the Technical
Assistance Pool (TAP)4, to improve management and budgeting, to strengthen policy and project
analysis, to monitor the sector adjustment program and continue the computerization progran;
2 By 1986, the Bank had financed some 30 projects in Kenya's agriculture sector.
At appraisal, the two ministries were one entity having been merged in 1983 to form the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock Development, MOALD. The ministry was split again in FY86, only to
be merged again in FY92 as the Ministry for Agriculture, Livestock Development & Marketing
(MOALDM).
' TAP was established in 1976 to strengthen MOALD. For the first phase of TAP, 6 non-Bank
donors provided financing for the retention of an agency to manage and recruit TA and coordinate
training.



3
(ii) Part B Assistance to Ministry of Finance (MOF) & Ministry of Planning & National
Development (MPND) - US$ 2.2 m: TA and support for GOK's Budget Rationalization Program in
MOF, including streamlining of the resource allocation program and rationalization of the national
budget. Strengthening of MPND's planning capabilities through provision of an economic advisor.
(iii) Part C Assistance to Department of Resource Surveys & Remote Sensing (DRSRS)5 - US$
6.1 m: institutional support, TA, training and provision of planes, vehicles, equipment: to strengthen
the ability to provide timely and quality data on national resources for planning and decision making.
(iv) Part D Assistance to National Cereals & Produce Board (NCPB) - US$ 1.4 m: upgrading
NCPB's computer facilities, strengthening its financial and stock management system, and improving
its food security planning by provision of TA, training, computers, and related equipment.
(v)  Part E  Parastatals/Inspectorate of State Corporations (ISC) - US$ 0.6 m: assistance to
selected agricultural parastatals to implement management & financial reform programs. Assistance to
parastatal oversight institutions in monitoring and supervision of key areas of parastatal performance.
(vi)  Part F  Assistance to National Irrigation Board (NIB) - US$ 0.2 m: strengthening NIB's
accounting and financial management systems through TA, training, computer equipment.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1   Conceptual Foundation, Design & Scope : ASMP was prepared by IDA staff after extensive
consultations with the participating institutions. As a technical assistance project, ASMP focused on
addressing issues which resulted largely from poor institutional performance in the sector. As a
follow-on project designed to build upon the achievements of ATAP, ASMP's scope and scale
addressed the sectoral priorities and objectives of further strengthening GOK capability in policy
analysis, formulation and implementation, improved management and budgeting in key ministries, and
strengthening capacity of public sector institutions such as DRSRS and NCPB, to deliver key services.
ASAO6 was also supported by ASMP. ASAO was to sustain the first two years of a five-year GOK
program of sectoral adjustment. In view of the serious shortage of qualified personnel, the sector
adjustment operations were felt to strain GOK resources. Hence, ASMP was designed to be an
essential complement to ASAO (as ATAP was to the second Structural Adjustment Loan, SAL II),
providing TA and funding longer term reform programs contained under ASAO, which could not be
financed through the latter due to its fast-disbursing nature. Under ASMP, an emphasis on TA and
indigenous capacity development was the appropriate response to the near chronic shortage of
qualified local personnel in the country. The project design introduced the focussing essential for an
ambitious training and TA program, by continuing the consolidated administration of the component
by the Harvard Institute for International Development, HIID. This enabled better planning and
coordination than entrusting the component to several institutions (some of which may have lacked the
management capacity), and subjecting it to various cumbersome local procedures.
4.2    However, with the benefit of hindsight, certain weaknesses in project design may be
identified. There were a number of discrete components relating to NCPB, NIB, parastatals & ISC,
MPND and even MOF, which were too small to have provided the leverage needed for any
5 Formerly called Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Board, KREMU.
6 ASAO was presented to the Board jointly with ASMP on June 23, 1986.



4
meaningful project impact. The consequent dispersal of desired project impact could perhaps have
been mitigated through greater inter-agency coordination and linkages (para.4.3). Furthermore, the
absence of a coherent and integrated action plan or strategy in the area of public sector informatics,
meant that much valuable learning and cross-support between the various ministries/agencies was lost
- apparently resulting in a dis-jointed approach to the computerization program under ASMP (paras.
5.9-5.12).
4.3    Roles & Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies: The project was essentially an umbrella
operation financing TA, institution building and reform programs in a number of institutions; the
project directly impacted four ministries7, and four sector agencies/ parastatals8, viz., MOALD,
MOF, MPND, DRSRS, ISC, NCPB and NIB. Although it was initially felt that coordination of
project activities among the participating institutions was not necessary, as the components were free-
standing and required no day to day coordination, a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) was
indeed set up to provide a forum for exchange of information, and to assemble project-level financial
data and reports. A senior MOALD official was appointed PC and also acted as Secretary of the
PCC9. This arrangement was logical at the time of appraisal. However, subsequently certain changes
took place in the organizational structure of MOALD which rendered the project arrangements less
effective. First, MOALD was split into separate ministries for Agriculture, Livestock Development
and Supplies & Marketing. Secondly, two parastatals which were the responsibility of MOALD at the
time of appraisal, were transferred to other ministries: NIB was transferred to the Ministry of
Regional Development, and NCPB was transferred to the Ministry of Supplies and Marketing. These
changes meant that the now restructured and divided MOALD lost a firm grip on the coordination of
project activities. In retrospect, at this juncture, it may have been advisable to set up an inter-
ministerial PCC, but this was not done. While the PC continued to be based in MOA, his role had
been weakened, and his function of providing focus and guidance on project activities and issues was
reduced to being a token one (para. 4.2).
4.4    The directors of DRSRS, NCPB, NIB and ISC and the parastatals were responsible for the
implementation of project activities in their respective institutions. In MOA/MOLD, day to day
administration of project activities was the responsibility of departmental and sectional heads who
were assisted by experts and guided by the Annual Work Plan; a working level Project Steering
Committee brought key staff together. Within MOF, the Director of Budget Supply directed
implementation of the Budget Rationalization Program, and the Director of the Investment Division
prepared the annual work and training programs.
5. Project Implementation
5.1    Credit Effectiveness & Implementation Schedule: The Credit was approved on June 23, 1986,
and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed on February 10, 1987. As a result of
delays in definition of, and cofinancing arrangements for the third phase of the TAP, the appraisal of
the MOALD component of the project could not be completed on a timely basis; project start-up was
7 ASMP initially covered three ministries, prior to the split of MOALD into MOA and MOLD.
8 Project coverage would be extended to several other agricultural parastatals as ISC and the
Investments Division of MOF strengthened their oversight capabilities.
9 The PCC headed by the Permanent Secretary, MOALD, included directors and Project Managers
from participating institutions.



5
thus hampered by disagreements between GOK and the non-IDA donors following GOK's reluctance
to go along with TAP III arrangements (para. 5.14). An amendment to the existing contract was
eventually signed, extending HIID's contract by three years to June 30, 1989'°. Another amendment
provided for the implementation by HIID (on behalf of GOK), of the short term consultancies and
training component of the project. Additionally, project start-up was slow due to delays in defining
the parastatal reform package and the break up of MOALD into separate ministries during this period.
The Credit thus became effective on March 30, 1987 instead of September 1986 (as planned).
5.2    The project was originally scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1991; the Credit closing
date was established as December 31, 1991. Despite various start-up and implementation delays, the
Credit closing date was only extended by one year to December 31, 1992. The extension was to allow
GOK to complete ongoing activities and to meet the financial commitments already made, including
bridge funding of TAP II for six months until the TA under ASAO II was available, as well as,
training of two cotton classifiers and procurement of cotton lint classifying equipment and
remuneration for the services of GIS advisors and 3 pilots working in DRSRS. Proceeds of the Credit
were re-allocated several times: funds were reallocated out of consultant services, training and
'unallocated" category (categories 3, 5 and 7) to meet the additional expenditures related to the TAP
component - TA & training (category 4). Credit proceeds related to various DRSRS sub-components
(category 2(c) - 2(e)) were also reallocated to cover the considerable over-run in the cost of the
aircraft (cat. 2(b)) procured for DRSRS. The DRSRS reallocations in favor of goods/equipment were
made at the expense of reduced funding for training and short term TA (paras. 5.4, 5.6). The DCA
was amended once more (April 1990), to reflect the opening of a Special Account for ASMP.
Effective July 1, 1991, supervision of ASMP was transferred to the Nairobi Resident Mission".
5.3   ImDlementation Experience:  ASMP became effective in March 1987. Not surprisingly, TA
had become a highly politicized and sensitive issue in Kenya by the mid-1980s; political intervention
in the TA component of ASMP stemmed from a pervasive sentiment in Kenya that far too many
expatriates were involved in TA in Kenya, siphoning off an inordinate proportion of total donor
assistance. Consequently, the TA needs of the various project entities had to be reviewed and revised
constantly over the project's life. Both the project design and Bank staff demonstrated considerable
flexibility in this respect. TAP (cat. 4) managed the recruitment of technical advisors and short term
consultancies for MOA, MOLD, MOF, NCPB and MPND, and also administered funds for overseas
and local training as well as for some equipment and vehicles. TA was managed directly by the other
project entities (DRSRS, ISC, MOF Investments Division). The training costs for DRSRS were
covered under category 2(e) and for NIB and ISC under category 5 (TABLE 5B). The training
component related to NIB was later transferred under TAP to facilitate its management. Four
(expatriate) resident experts (two in MOA/MOLD, one each in Treasury and NCPB) were recruited
through TAP, instead of the 8 originally planned. A GIS expert was also recruited by DRSRS.
Additionally, twelve Kenyan advisors and four local research assistants were intermittently engaged
for varying lengths of time, to assist in sector policy and project formulation and analysis, budget
reform, and information systems development within MOA, MOLD and MOF. The employment of
local experts, cognizant with local policy issues and environment, was a step in the right direction -
subscribing to the concepts of nurturing national capacity, and promoting awareness and commitment
to succeed through encouraging greater ownership by Kenyans of the process of development.
0 Subsequent extensions of HIID's contract were effected to cover the remainder of the project's
life.
" The project's management was transferred along with the bulk of the agricultural portfolio.



6
5.4    Training: The implementation of the training component was essentially managed by HIID. A
detailed training program was compiled for MOLD and MOA, including on the job, local and
overseas training. These programs were updated periodically to reflect specific courses, venues and
dates. To facilitate the administration of funds, the NIB training program was later combined with
that for MOA. Under ASMP, HIID screened the candidates and directly paid their training costs, via
TAP. As shown in Table 4A, by and large all institutions with the exception of DRSRS, NIB and the
Treasury, made ample use of their training resources. It is not clear why the Treasury did not take
full advantage of the training opportunities availed by the project. DRSRS attributed the inability to
achieve their training targets to a misunderstanding about availability of funds allocated for this
purpose, and cost over-runs (paras. 5.2, 5.6).
5.5    Virtually all long-term training (Masters and PhD programs), took place in USA and UK.
Short-term training - largely for administrative and financial staff in the ministries and parastatals,
took place at HIID and other US institutions as well as in UK, the Netherlands, and within Kenya 2.
Study tours were also undertaken to various countries including Pakistan, Philippines and South
Korea. Reportedly, while overseas training progressed reasonably well under ASMP, local training
was confined to a few areas such as, budgeting, information systems and project management. A
supervision mission mounted in March 1989 recommended a Mid Term Review (MTR) of the project
to be carried out in August/September 1989, with a special emphasis on designing training
arrangements to serve the rest of the project and continue beyond its life in order to sustain the
process of strengthening the training activities in MOA/MOLD. A consultant was engaged with the
primary responsibility of producing a report, upon completion of the MTR. However, while
reportedly a thoroughly inadequate report was finally received from the consultant, it was much too
late to mount another review. (There is no record of the MTR being undertaken, or of the subsequent
report in project files).
5.6    DRSRS: A Geographic Information System (GIS) configuration (computer equipment and
software), financed by ATAP, was to be the central tool for enhancing DRSRS capabilities for
analyzing natural resources data. A key focus of ASMP was related to the introduction and effective
use of the system. After considerable delays, a resident expert was recruited to assist DRSRS in the
installation of GIS, staff training and formulation of development planning oriented projects.
However, constant developments in GIS hardware/software market led to quick obsolescence of
already acquired products, and the need for reviewing and changing procurement plans for systems
equipment. As a result, the expectation that the GIS would significantly facilitate production of land-
use data, could not be realized fully. Nonetheless, much progress was made in DRSRS's overall
work-program and the carrying out of individual projects such as, the annual maize harvest forecast
and the nationwide forest mapping exercise. ASMP also financed 2 small aircraft and avionics
packages, and three'3 expatriate pilots were engaged for the management of DRSRS's Air Services
Section (including selection, training and deployment of local pilots). However, there was a persistent
problem of attracting Kenyan pilots of sufficient skill and experience to perform DRSRS's very
demanding and even dangerous work at the non-competitive salaries being offered by DRSRS. There
12 HIID also offered regional and in-country training programs of 4-6 weeks in length to which
MOLD/MOA and their parastatals sent participants, financed under TAP. Three to four day seminars
were also organized using internal resources and visiting TAP personnel. Workshops with the
participation of District Agricultural and Livestock officials from MOA and MOLD, were carried out
in a number of districts to present the Project Management System.
"3 A third pilot had to be recruited in April 1990.



7
were considerable cost over-runs in the DRSRS sub-categories 2(a) and 2(b) due to an escalation in
the cost of the aircraft and equipment procured (largely due to increase in aircraft prices: the actual
cost of the aircraft was more than double the appraisal estimates of US$ 222,000/aircraft)'4, and the
recruitment of an additional expatriate pilot. Apparently, no "lease vs. buy" analysis for the aircraft
was undertaken, to evaluate the more cost-effective option. Additionally, the GIS computer broke
down due to electronic failures of computer board and central processing unit, and needed urgent
maintenance. Upgrading and licensing of software to meet the growing demand for complex
interactive analysis by GIS was also undertaken.
5.7    NCPB: The component got off to a difficult start, perhaps primarily as a result of NCPB
functioning in 1988, without the bulk of its middle and higher level management which was removed
following a major reorganization. The project financed the acquisition of a mainframe computer and
some 47 personal computers for NCPB; a building was constructed to house the computer facilities.
To minimize the possibilities of further tampering or damage to equipment, security was stepped up at
NCPB, following the damage of a critical computer tape unit in transit (replaced later). Primarily as a
result of inappropriate specifications for hardware and application packages, the mainframe procured
had a limited memory and personal computers lacked hard disks. However, the revolution in the field
of information systems in the 1980s, which often meant the almost instantaneous obsolescence of
hardware and software acquired, should not be overlooked; resultantly, upgrades of the mainframe
computer at headquarters along with further development of the data capture network in the field
(procurement of additional microcomputers and enhancement of existing hard/software) were
undertaken at an estimated additional cost of over US$400,000. The additional expenditure was
funded through unutilized resources earmarked for equipment and operating costs (cat. 1, 6).
5.8    The computer system for the Food Monitoring and Control System (FOCMOS) and the
FOCMOS Master Plan were completed and became operational within months of project
effectiveness. Micro-computers using 25 modified programs were installed in depots to implement the
Stock Control System; the latter handled sales orders, purchases, and advice on customer dispatches
and dispatches/receipts. In HQ, the General Ledger System software was installed virtually without
any modification. However, the computerized application systems were not utilized to their full
potential. As late as 1990, only 5 systems (General/Ledger, Payroll, Stock Control, Fixed Assets &
Import/Export) out of the 18 installed under ASMP had become operational. The use of parallel
manual systems continued to dominate the monitoring of operations and generation of reports.
5.9    Although the project received considerable support from the Bank's Information, Technology
and Facilities Department (ITF) staff'5, considerable bottlenecks and problems in fully
operationalizing the FOCMOS information system persisted; the problems were largely due to: the
bitter infighting within NCPB on issues related to procurement of the original mainframe and
deliberate sabotage of the hardware with resultant enforcement of strict security systems; NCPB
reorganization and staffing changes with resultant discontinuities; political interference and lack of
decision making on critical issues for long periods; non-renewal of the technical advisor's contract
following the first term of service (with computer systems at the Board still at an early stage of
development); delays in the appointment of a qualified Systems Manager to assist and take over from
"4 Actual combined disbursements for sub-categories 2(a) and 2(b) were SDR 1.7 million against an
appraisal estimate of SDR 900,000.
'5 A Senior Information Technology Specialist, ITF, participated in several supervision missions and
provided technical back-stopping for ASMP.



8
the consultant project manager, due to the level of remuneration being offered by NCPB being almost
a third of the prevailing salaries for candidates with the requisite qualifications, replacement of two
senior Data Processing Department (DPD) personnel by only one staff; strained relations between the
NCPB user community and DPD, with the former asserting that DPD staff lacked sufficient
knowledge of operational requirements and procedures, and alleging inadequacy of user
documentation and support, and errors and delays by DPD. DPD on the other hand pointed to lack of
commitment and resistance to automated systems from both operational and managerial staff at
NCPB, insufficient quality control and lack of timeliness and feedback, to name a few. In short, there
was lack of cooperation and inadequate awareness of responsibilities/functions on the part of both the
users and data processing staff.
5.10   MOF/MPND: A Budget Rationalization Program"6 (BRP), was prepared and implemented
through the MOF component of ASMP under the supervision of the Budgetary Procedures Group of
the Budget Supply Department (BSD). Two years of support from an expatriate specialist in budgeting
and investment evaluation, was planned under ASMP; however, the advisor was retained through
August 1990 (over three years). BSD made good progress in the Forward Budget Process, especially
in areas of analyzing the policy implications of the forward budget expenditures, inclusion of
additional information on level of revenues expected and external funding, utilization of findings of
the Forward Budget Committee by the Treasury in institutionalizing a system of approving the
ministerial budgetary ceilings, and overseas and in-house training of staff in various financial policy
and management courses. Both expatriate and Kenyan budget and economic advisors contributed to
the preparation of the forward budget. No economic advisor was provided to MPND, as envisaged at
appraisal.
5.11   MOA/MOLD: A Project Management System (PMS) and Project Registry were introduced
within MOA and MOLD, with the objective of improving project planning and budgetary exercises.
A joint (MOA & MOLD) Executive Committee was also established to follow up on implementation
of the Budget Task Force recommendations. Specific areas of improvement (in the field of
MOA/MOLD's budget preparation process), were related to the completion of four year forward
budgets (1989-92) and time estimates, submission of annual policy statements on priority areas,
improved funds flow reporting, enhanced participation of field and district offices in budget
formulation process, increased budgetary allocations to MOA and MOLD by 8.5 % and reduction of
subsidies to agricultural parastatals by nearly 20%. However, the preparation of a revised Budget
Manual and Budget Calendar proceeded slowly and were completed belatedly. A number of computer
operations were also introduced in MOA/MOLD and became operational with varying degrees of
success. The Project Registry, Budget & Expenditure Monitoring, Appropriations/Allocations systems
reportedly functioned satisfactorily, although the problem of timely and accurate data capture was
pervasive and impaired the systems' effectiveness. A Vehicle Monitoring System (VMS) was also
established to ensure close supervision and efficient use of vehicles. However, the VMS was not
capable of monitoring the entire fleet of MOA and MOLD vehicles and suffered from considerable
delays (more than 4 months) in obtaining returns from the field; further, VMS outputs were hardly
used as decision making or monitoring tools.
16 Early in 1986, GOK initiated an ambitious four-year Budget Rationalization Program, which aimed
at increasing the efficacy of investments and expenditures by the public sector.



9
5.12   NIB/ISC: The start up of implementation for the NIB'" component was slow - due in part to
the lack of authorization from MOA to engage the consultants for the overhaul of NIB's accounting
system and due also to the allocation of an unrealistically low budget for the computerization of
operations (Kenyan Pounds 20,000 for 1987/88 as compared with ASMP estimates of Kenyan Pounds
82,000). Some 5 personal computers were eventually purchased and utilized for accounting functions
at NIB. Reportedly, no training of NIB staff was undertaken. The start-up of the ISC component was
delayed due to change in top management (with a resultant re-assessment of staff training and
consultant needs by the new Inspector). A training program was eventually completed and forwarded
to the IDA; while the short term training targets were exceeded, only one ISC staff could take
advantage of the long-term training'8. Furthermore, although ASMP provided for an Organization
and Management Technical Expert (for 2 years), no such expert was hired at ISC (para 4.2).
5.13   Disbursements:  A total of some SDR 9.9 million or 97 percent of the approved amount
(equivalent to US$ 13.2 million, some 115% of the Credit amount in terms of US$) was disbursed by
IDA (Table 3, Part III). Institutional and management constraints, together with delays in preparing
and submitting reimbursement claims, led to slow disbursements, particularly in the first three years
of the project. The last disbursement was made on June 1, 1993, and an undisbursed balance of some
SDR 312,000 (US$352,000) was cancelled in June 1993.
5.14   Proiect Costs & Financing: Total project cost over the five year investment period was
estimated at US$ 20.7 million (including price and physical contingencies of US$ 3.7 million), with a
foreign exchange component of US$ 13.5 million or 65%. It was intended that IDA would contribute
US$ 11.5 million (SDR 10.2 million; Table SB, Part III) or 56% of total costs, and GOK was to
provide US$ 4.8 million (23% of total costs), while CIDA, UNDP, SIDA and USAID would
contribute US Dollars 2.2 million, 1.6 million, 0.4 million and 0.3 million, respectively. As a result
of the collapse of the proposed TAP III Agreement, some US$ 4.5 million in donor funding was
withdrawn, effectively reducing the size of the project and leaving IDA as the only committed donor
(para 5.1). However, as a result of depreciation of project currencies, actual total costs as of end-
December 1992 are estimated at US$ 19.7 million (including GOK contribution of US$ 6.5 million)
or 95 % of the appraisal estimate.
6. Project Results and Impact
6.1     ASMP's achievements were not spectacular and overall project ratings did not deviate from
"2" over the project's life, although in view of the existence of procurement problems and overall
management issues related to certain project components, these parameters would have merited a "3"
rating at times. Nonetheless, it should be kept in view that ASMP was implemented: (i) in the absence
of an enabling policy environment (as evidenced by the international donor community's concern
regarding the up to recent lack of GOK's commitment to an appropriate macro-economic framework
and structural reform agenda); and (ii) against a background of growing resentment in Kenya against
the use of expatriate TA. Despite such major constraints, ASMP was able to meet its core objectives
'7 Some key constraints affecting NIB were its organizational structure and limited mandate, as well
as the lack of consensus on: national irrigation policy; the delineation of authority between Ministries
and Agencies with overlapping responsibilities in land and water development; how to address
complex land tenure issues in irrigated settlement areas.
18 There was provisioning under ASMP, for the long-term training of 6 ISC staff.



10
of continuing to build on the positive initiatives introduced under ATAP'9, and providing support to
ASAO through furthering public sector capacity for delivering key services and firming the
institutional base for formulation of agricultural policy. Thus, on balance, its results may be deemed
satisfactory. ASMP helped push forward the process of enhancing GOK's capacity to design and
implement sector reform measures through: the provision of resident advisors working closely with
Government officials, expansive training of personnel, provision of information processing equipment
and some enhancement of the data analysis capabilities of a number of sectoral entities. Despite the
difficulties associated with baseline evaluation of institutional capacity prior to the commencement of
a project, followed by an ex-2ost facto assessment of TA and institution building, an effort at
assessing the effectiveness of Bank's intervention through ASMP (and other TA projects in Africa)
was made in a 1990 Operations Evaluation Department (OED) study20, which concluded that the
project continued the work initiated under its highly successful precursor ATAP, albeit with not the
same degree of success; this was primarily a result of GOK's decision to dramatically reduce the level
of expatriate TA/advisors. Lack of GOK's agreement to proposed TA objectives had consequences for
timeliness of start-up/implementation, financing, provision of TA and training performance.
6.2    Under ASMP the long-term TA component was slashed from the proposed 30 staff-years by
almost in half, funds were allocated away from training and TA (consultant services) for the
procurement of goods (vehicles, planes, computers), and the planned hiring of a Management and
Training Expert was not effected. As TA is particularly difficult to manage and coordinate, it
generally eludes precise definition of the institutional development issues involved, including
borrower's absorptive capacity; further, it may be difficult to attract the requisite expertise in some of
the more technical sectoral functions, e.g., GIS experts with a thorough knowledge of Kenya; the
unavoidable utilization of some of the TA provided for operational/functional rather than advisory
tasks (as under both ATAP and ASMP, despite efforts at improving work planning and training to
build local staff); furthermore, TA often involves high degree of inter-departmental or even inter-
sectoral cooperation and may be a politically sensitive issue. Nevertheless, another review at ASMP's
completion points to positive project performance and impact; GOK's recognition of management and
financial problems increased; some managerial, operational and analytical capability was developed in
the ministries and agencies through training; basic reforms in the budgetary processes were
introduced, while there was strengthening of the target institutions, development of information
processing systems and management procedures.
6.3    ASMP supported the work programs of DRSRS and NCPB. Project impact with respect to
NCPB and DRSRS was however uneven. The GIS enhanced the Departmental data quality and
analytical capability, including cartographic capabilities of DRSRS; significant progress in
implementation of independent development projects was also achieved. However, the
recruitment/training of Kenyan pilots and the development of local expertise in the management and
operation of the GIS did not take-off as envisaged, chiefly a result of the unattractive remuneration
levels. Project impact in the areas of the Department's staff training/development, and short-term TA
was also curtailed as a result of resources being reallocated out of these components into procurement
of aircraft/equipment (para. 5.6). NCPB handled Kenya's most important crop, white maize, which
19 ATAP (closed: November 1986) was successfully implemented, resulting in many long term
initiatives related to strengthening GOK capability to implement policies and improving management
and budgeting in key ministries.
20 Free-Standing Technical Assistance for Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa; April
1990; OED.



11
is also the staple food. NCPB's operations (over the years) have been primarily driven by political
motives and limited economic/marketing rationale. ASMP as a TA intervention designed to simply
provide support for agricultural policy reform, did not seek to address the thorny issue of grain
marketing reform, which was indeed beyond its scope; consequently, the Board's marketing policies
have continued to impede agricultural growth and sectoral efficacy. Only modest assistance to NCPB
by way of management processes reform and the development of the food security plan were included
under the project, and even these efforts had a reduced impact due to the various problems discussed
above (para. 5.7). Project impact on parastatals, MPND, ISC and NIB was marginal, due to a
piecemeal TA strategy, inadequate linkages and coordination, modest support and dispersal of project
focus over a number of small, fragmented components (paras. 4.2, 4.3). The project financed the
training of a large number of government staff2", and its contribution to the development of a
national pool of managerial and policy analysis capacity, should be recognized. A number of
personnel trained under ASMP have reportedly moved into the private sector, only to be re-hired as
TA/consultants by GOK.
6.4    The project contributed to improvements in MOA/MOLD's budgeting process and financial
management capabilities, and the strengthening of capabilities within MOF through focussing on
rationalization of functions and processes, and training of staff (paras. 5.10, 5. 11). Thus, in the field
of budget preparation, considerable institutional strengthening took place particularly with the
activation of the Budget Secretariat, Budget Committee and the Task Force to facilitate the
formulation and rationalization of the budget for MOA/MOLD. A 1989 World Bank Discussion
Paper22 lauded Bank involvement in Budget Rationalization efforts in Kenya, as follows - "Budget
rationalization is one major area in the 1980s in which a Bank sponsored lead in the agricultural
sector [in Kenya] appears to have had genuine impact, as well as broader payoffs in other sectors."
Important improvements in budgetary procedures (e.g., automation of procedures, preparation of a
Budget Manual on the Budget Calendar) were introduced. The absence of concrete "performance
indicators" makes the task of evaluating the budget component very difficult. However, while the
actual budgetary procedure itself was streamlined and enhanced, it did not directly result in an
improved budget due to lack of GOK commitment and unwillingness to address the expenditure policy
issues such as the rapid growth of public sector employment and personnel expenditure, which
21 ASMP sponsored 40 MOA/MOLD staff for overseas courses leading to Masters and PhD degrees
in the fields of agricultural development, economic planning, agricultural economics, agricultural
engineering and public administration. 36 staff successfully completed their studies. ASMP also
sponsored 105 MOA/MOLD staff for short-term non-degree courses in the fields of public financial
management, budgeting, policy analysis, computer programming, farm credit, investment analysis,
human resource management, and public enterprise management. In DRSRS, 7 staff were sent on
courses in data management and environmental impact assessment. In NCPB, about 2,000 staff were
locally trained to various levels of computer appreciation and application while one person went on a
study tour on grain marketing in the USA. In ISC, one staff member was sponsored overseas to a
Master's degree course in public finance while two people were sponsored to the Netherlands for
diploma courses in management and another 16 attended short-term courses locally and at Harvard in
the fields of project budgeting and evaluation, public enterprise policy and management, performance
audits, and computer audits. At the Treasury, 2 staff were sponsored overseas to Masters degrees in
public finance while another 28 attended short-term courses in budgeting, and public financial
management.
22 Lele, Uma & Meyers, L. Richard, 1989. " Bank Economic and Sectoral Analysis and Policy
Advice; Advice to Kenya." MADIA Discussion Paper 3.



12
crowded out non-wage expenditure and the need to prune the project portfolio. The expatriate TA
concentrated on putting a mechanism in place for the improvement of overall budgetary procedures,
so policy could be made by GOK. As a result of GOK's unwillingness to launch the policy decisions
the above tools were designed to support, the budget itself was not improved.
6.5    Perhaps most importantly, ASMP helped underscore the need for developing a comprehensive
sectoral institutional strategy, and in this context its input in project pipeline development should be
recognized. The follow-on projects, ASAO II and ASMP II drawing on the experience of ASMP,
were consequently designed to support the formulation of a well-defined institutional development
strategy. ASMP II, in particular seeks to establish the framework for the development of an
institutional "vision", by furnishing crucial TA needed to underpin policy and institutional changes,
while ASAO II sought to widen and deepen the policy and parastatal reforms initiated under the first
sector adjustment operation.
7. Sustainability
7. 1    Clearly institution building is a long-term and evolutionary process, and in this respect the
agenda for Kenyan agriculture sector is still far from complete. However, despite set-backs, the Bank
is striving to build on previous accomplishments through continuous dialogue with GOK and careful
management of the agricultural sector project portfolio23 through intensive supervision from the
field. Barring absolute lack of GOK commitment, economic problems of a colossal nature, and a
complete neglect of critical structural reform in the agricultural sector, it may be concluded that the
two largest ASMP components (related to: (i) MOA/MOLD: strengthening of financial management
practices, policy analysis/ formulation/ implementation and project analysis capabilities; and (ii)
DRSRS: enhancement of capacity in delivering key services) are likely to be sustainable, and in fact
are the basis for further reform under the third phase TA project.
7.2    The follow-on project, ASMP II24, seeks to build on previous Bank interventions and
complement ongoing and planned IDA operations. The project's two largest components, i.e.,
MOA/MOLD capacity building component and DRSRS support component, together account for
some 60% of its total baseline cost estimates. ASMP II is helping in the formulation of a coherent
institutional structure for MOA/MOLD through provision of TA and training, and financing of
various operations and maintenance costs. The component does not explicitly continue with the BRP,
which was the mainstay of ASMP's TA to MOA/MOLD. However, ASMP II does indirectly
contribute to budgetary reform through facilitating commercialization and privatization of appropriate
ministry services. The DRSRS support component provides broad support for key aspects of
institutional strengthening, and directly sustains fundamental activities such as the GIS, aerial surveys
and the Department's Publications Program.
23 Substantial restructuring of projects has already been undertaken and further restructuring will be
pursued to ameliorate project design and performance.
24 The Credit Agreement for ASMP II was signed in March 1993, and it became effective in
September 1993. Its objectives are: (i) development of key agricultural subsectors: cotton, sugar and
oilseed; (ii) cooperative subsector restructuring and enhancement; (iii) increasing overall efficiency of
MOA/MOLD by rationalizing their role, structure and strategic functions; (iv) strengthening DRSRS;
& (v) developing the institutional capacity to prepare a National Environment Action Plan (NEAP).



13
7.3    The reform of NCPB and of grain marketing policy - necessary to maintain the growth of
cereal production and to contain the budgetary burden - is crucial to the sustainability of the
component. A key element of the second sector adjustment program, ASAO II5, related to the issue
of enhanced maize pricing/marketing and improved NCPB operations through: consolidation of a new
role for NCPB and reduction in its operating costs; removal of maize marketing controls to improve
the efficiency of maize marketing; improving incentives for smallholder maize producers, and
sustaining adequate farm-gate prices through reduced marketing margins. However, the second
tranche of ASAO II was cancelled in December 1992, as a result of GOK's reversal of maize
movement liberalization measures. In fact since the mid-1980s, GOK has vacillated over the reform of
the pricing/marketing of Kenya's most politicized cereal. However, in the context of its continuing
dialogue with the Bank and the International Monetary Fund, GOK recently stressed its commitment
to completing maize liberalization during the first half of 1994. Additionally, recent developments in
the area of Public Enterprise (PE) reform include GOK efforts to improve the efficiency of strategic
PEs (such as NCPB), through restructuring and measures to improve the efficiency and competitive
environment by phasing out subsidies, establishing a corporate governance system that reduces
political interference, dealing with excess indebtedness, and streamlining the regulatory/legal
framework. To this end GOK has established a Department of Government Investment and Public
Enterprises (DGIPE), within MOF.
7.4    Any back-tracking or neglect of stabilization policies or reform programs, would enfeeble the
achievements of ASMP. Over the past few years, the sectoral development measures introduced in
Kenya have been undermined by destabilizing fiscal imbalances and the deteriorating efficiency of the
public sector. Thus, the extent of Government's commitment to the reform agenda will be the key
determinant of the sustainability of this or any developmental interventions in Kenya by the
international donor community. Additionally, borrower ownership and commitment are critical to
ensure the future viability and success of ASMP's initiatives. To ensure the foregoing, the specific
objectives of any TA interventions financed by the Bank must be consistent with Kenya's
developmental objectives and strategy, and be fully endorsed by the Borrower.
8. Bank Performance
8.1    The Bank's commitment to the project continued throughout its implementation. As per
project documentation, eight supervision missions26 (Table 8) visited Kenya over the nearly six year
long project implementation period (March '87 - December '92). Although their input was reportedly
found useful by the implementing agencies, the missions apparently did not resolve the procurement
issues related to acquisition of computer equipment/systems packages and aircraft in a very effectual
manner. In July 1991, supervision of the project was transferred to the Nairobi Resident Mission.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1    At project start-up, GOK delayed the signing of the TA and training contract with HIID.
GOK also back-tracked on the Technical Assistance Pool arrangement; as a result, the non-IDA
donors withdrew their financial support from the project. Collapse of TAP III fundamentally altered
the project design, organization, co-financing arrangements and legal agreements and resulted in start-
' The Credit Agreement for ASAO II was signed in February 1991, and it became effective on May
21, 1991.
26 Excluding the MTR mission, of which there is no record in project documentation.



14
up delays (paras. 5.1, 5.14). With the exception of the above, Government's commitment to the
project was consistent in terms of budgetary support, counterpart staff and procedural arrangements to
expedite project activities. Project coordination, particularly in the later phase of project
implementation, however proved somewhat inadequate (para. 4.3). The Borrower could not fully
comply with the Credit Agreement covenants relating to the timely delivery of audit and progress
reports largely due to a weakened PCC; annual reports and accounts, progress reports and work plans
are only available upto 1990 from the project files27 (para 13.2).
10. Lessons
10.1   The policy support and institutional development initiatives under ASMP have helped
reinforce the accomplishments under earlier TA and sector adjustment operations, and have also in
turn formed the building blocks for future institutional development and policy reform interventions in
the Kenyan agriculture sector. The project's implementation experience demonstrated the following
key lessons and findings in institution building:
(a)    This project clearly demonstrated the need for a carefully designed, comprehensive
institutional development plan accompanied by a pragmatic implementation strategy, in the absence of
which institution building could end up as a non-sustainable ad-hoc exercise. ASMP's impact on
parastatals, MPND, ISC, NIB and even NCPB, was marginal, due to a piecemeal TA strategy,
inadequate linkages and coordination, modest support and dispersal of project focus over a number of
small, fragmented components. The follow-on projects, ASAO II and ASMP II, therefore drawing on
the experience of ASMP, were designed to support the formulation of a well-defined institutional
development strategy. ASMP II, in particular seeks to establish the framework for the development of
an institutional "vision", by furnishing crucial TA needed to underpin policy and institutional changes,
while ASAO lI sought to widen and deepen the policy and parastatal reforms initiated under ASAO I.
(b)    While TA is an essential ingredient for getting institutional strengthening measures underway,
the socio-political climate and policy environment, should be carefully weighed and factored in at the
time of designing a project; the growing political sensitivity to the issue of expatriate TA, and the
consequent lack of GOK's agreement to proposed TA objectives under ASMP, clearly had
consequences for timeliness of start-up/implementation, financing arrangements and provision of TA.
(c)    Certain systemic problems which undermined ASMP's impact, stemmed directly from
deficiencies of the Kenyan public sector; thus, the comprehensive and effective reforrm of the public
sector, including the Civil Service is essential for supporting development interventions such as
ASMP. The project's performance was affected by the issue of low wages/ inadequate incentive
system and the unavailability of adequate operational and managerial resources (partly attributable to
the large size of the wage bill and the country's debt service obligations). In this connection, it is
important to ensure that local salaries and other benefits are sufficiently attractive to assure the
recruitment and retention of qualified and capable local staff. Public sector institutions such as
DRSRS and NCPB have experienced considerable difficulty in attracting qualified personnel, as a
result of the non-competitive salaries they were offering; and consequently, some of the TA provided
under ASMP (e.g., pilots) has been utilized in an operational capacity. In the interest of
sustainability, it must be ensured that the TA provided is of a transient nature and is accompanied by
27 Project documentation available from project files in the Africa ISC Files unit at World Bank Head
Quarters.



15
a clear provision for its phasing out. The hazard of TA being used for operational rather than
advisory tasks should be minimized through appropriate pay scales (to attract local expertise),
improved work planning and extensive training to build local staff.
(d)    As budget rationalization is an on-going process, it must be consistently endorsed by the
government; measures to improve the budgetary process and overall quality of the budget have to be
constantly instituted, such that increasingly efficient use of resources is introduced. While the BRP
has achieved some success in process issues, this did not translate into a more disciplined approach to
public expenditure.
(e)    For projects containing a substantial training component, there should be a clear assignment
of responsibilities for the implementation of the training program; special attention must be given to
the design (developed in close cooperation with the Borrower) which should be flexible enough to
permit modifications during implementation. ASMP's design introduced the focussing essential for an
ambitious training and TA program, by continuing the consolidated administration of the component
by HIID. This enabled better planning and coordination than entrusting the component to several
institutions (some of which may have lacked the management capacity). Additionally, evaluation of
training impact must be undertaken to assess improvements in project management and enhanced
efficiency, leading to specific productivity/performance augmentation. A large cadre of government
staff were trained under ASMP, a number of whom were trained overseas. This can be an expensive
proposition which may not be sustainable over the long run without continuous external financial
support. Training staff locally at the educational institutions within Kenya or even other regional
African centers, could be more cost effective, which would enable more people to be trained and
could help advance local capability in these educational institutions as well. A May 1993 Bank
presentation calls for more direct support for capacity building in Africa through training (including
training of African university faculties), institutional support of key institutions and twinning
arrangements2-.
(f)    Although a number of ASMP components were discrete and designed for independent
implementation, given the large number of Ministries and agencies involved, a stronger PC function
would have made for more successful implementation. Project implementation arrangements should be
reviewed periodically, so that when there are key structural and organizational changes in the
participating institutions, the management/coordination arrangements for the project are changed
accordingly. The restructuring of some sectoral institutions meant that the PCC/PC lost a firm grip on
the coordination of project activities, and the latter's function of providing focus and guidance on
project activities and issues was reduced to being a token one. In retrospect, at this juncture, it may
have been advisable to set up an inter-ministerial PCC, but this was not done.
11. Project Relationships
11. 1  Relationship between IDA, Borrower and the implementing agencies was collaborative
throughout. Despite certain initial impediments to project start-up, both the Bank and the Borrower
remained committed to the project, and maintained a good working relationship. In retrospect,
however, in view of the Borrower's poor performance regarding compliance with major financial
conditionality, the issue begs the question whether Bank staff should have demonstrated greater
firmness in requiring GOK's compliance with the Credit covenants.
28 Capacity Building: The Missing Link in African Development; Presentation by Mr. E. V. K.
Jaycox to the African-American Institute, May 20, 1993.



16
12. Consultant Services
12.1  Information regarding the TA recruited, and the duration and nature of assignments, is
presented in Table 4A. Although it is difficult to objectively evaluate the quality of TA, particularly
when a number of foreign and local experts are involved, ministry and agency officials found the
performance of the consultants recruited satisfactory; by and large, the consultants retained were said
to have made positive contributions. However, DRSRS and NCPB, reportedly made incomplete use
of their in-house consultant resources, as particularly in DRSRS the advisors retained full-filled
operational roles.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1   No conventional SAR was issued. The main project document was in the form of a
comprehensive Implementation Volume, which in conjunction with the Legal Agreements proved
adequate for the project. IDA Supervision Reports were not consistent in their coverage of project
implementation experience, and certain standard forms were either incomplete or unavailable. Data
relating to project progress in key parameters like training, procurement and TA was not readily
available on file, while information on the status of DCA Covenants was also lacking.
13.2  In the field, records were maintained by the various participating ministries and agencies.
These were to be reported regularly to the PCC which in turn would consolidate the information for
project level reporting. However, due to coordination problems, this arrangement did not work
efficiently; the problem exacerbated in the later years of the project (para. 9.1). The financial
statements (Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds for the project) certified by the Auditor
General for the four financial years ending June 30, 1990, clearly state that it was not possible to
verify whether the expenditures conformed to the Credit Agreement, as no records relating to the
expenditures were maintained by MOA or made available for the audits. No audit or progress reports
for the final two years of ASMP were available from the files (refer Footnote 27).



17
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The following letter contains comments from the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Development and Marketing, on Parts I and III of the PCR.
Mr. G. Pathmanathan,
Chief, Agriculture Section,
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa,
View Park Towers,
Nairobi.
Dear Mr. Pathmanathan,
Ref: Comments on the ASMP I Project -
Completion Report - Cr. 1718-KE
This has reference to your letter forwarding the above report for our comments on December
28, 1993. We have had a chance to read the report and make general comments as we find most of
the points and observations made in the report to be correct.
The lessons learned during the implementation of ASMP I will go along way in enabling us to
steer ASMP II to success. This is particularly so in regards to the Institutional Management
Component of ASMP II. The mistakes and short-comings of ASMP I must be avoided and this
Ministry will do all it can to assist in the implementation. We recognize the fact that although the
project is still broadly based with other Ministries participating, we now have a full time Project
Coordinator.
We hope that the attached comments will be of some use for your report to Washington which
has a deadline of January 31st, 1994.
Please do not hesitate to get in touch with us should you need any further comments.
Yours sincerely
Sd/- Eng. W.P. Wambura
Permanent Secretary



18
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT: ASMP I - CR. 1718-KE
COMMENTS
As was stated in the Project Implementation volume of ASMP 1, the main objective of the
project was to solve the agricultural sector development constraints and to stimulate agricultural
growth through improving the basic services in:-
extension
research
input supply; and
marketing and credit.
In addition, there were to be improvements in management areas of policy formulation and
implementation. Reduction of management and institutional constraints through local capacity
building by provision of technical assistance and training of agricultural sector staff was also to be
attained. All these objectives were meant to complement the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Operation (ASAO II) Credit 1717 KE which was to effect reforms in:-
sector policy and management
budget rationalization and
parastatal management
The above objectives of ASMP I were achieved although there were some implementation
difficulties. Most of the points and observations made in the Project Completion Report are correct
although reasons for certain happenings may not necessarily have been the same as given in the
report.
(a)    The continuous review of the TA was not due to "that TA had become a highly
politicized issue in Kenya". In fact the main reason for this was the design of TA
requirements at the preparation state of the project. There was an over statement of
the TAs required and views of the institutions concerned had not been taken seriously.
This was particularly so in case of the Development Planning Divisions of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Livestock Development where an excessive
number of required TAs was put at 13.
(b)    Lack of GOK's comnmitment to an appropriate macro-economic frame and structural
reforms agenda had not become evident during the ASMP I implementation. What
could have affected the implementation speed was the general policy environment.
(c)    The growing of sentiments in Kenya against the use of expatriate TA was countered
with the beginning of the need to use local TAs and in the process, the
implementation of the project was affected. However, ASMP was able to meet its
core objectives of building positive initiatives introduced under ATAP.
(d)    The problems in attracting qualified pilots by DRSRS was common in the whole of
civil service due to low salaries.



19
(e)    The necessary training of computer operators in NCPB was not completed as the TA
personnel who installed the main frame had to leave abruptly.
(f)    The biggest problem with implementation of ASMP I turned out to be the issue of
coordination. When the project was designed, there was only one Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development and NIB and NCPB were under the Ministry.
These institutions were later fragmented to different Ministries with NIB and NCPB
going to other Ministries. ISC was under Office of the President while DRSRS
remained in the Ministry of Planning & National Development.
By and large, we agree with the lessons learned from ASMP I as stated in the PCR.
(i)      ASMP I helped reinforce the accomplishment under earlier TA and
sector adjustment operations. It also formed the building blocks for
future development and policy reform.
(ii)     The institutional development must be designed carefully and
consistently in order to avoid a situation of capacity building becoming
non-sustainable.
(iii)     TA provision alone may not achieve institution development and
strengthening social and political support as well as policy
environment must be taken into account at the design state.
(iv)      The public sector happenings are also important in supporting any
development interventions. This will be a test case for ASMP II
which has coincided with the Civil Service Reform in Kenya.
(v)      Institution development will lean heavily on training of local staff and
therefore must be properly linked to the need of such training
otherwise capacity building so essential for such institutional
development may not be sustainable. All those issues will need to be
reviewed periodically if success is to be achieved.
(vi)      As stated in the PCR 97 percent of the Credit was disbursed and
undisbursed balance of SDR 312,000 was cancelled in June 1993.
Although the project began six months behind schedule,
implementation pace was satisfactory.



20
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Project                  Loan/        Year of      Amount           Status
Credit No.    Approval   (US$ m)
Bura Irrigation Settlement            1449-KE         1977         31.0         Completed
Small-Scale Industry                   750-KE         1978         7.7          Completed
Smallholder Coffee Improvement         914-KE         1979         27.0         Completed
Second Integrated Agric. Development   959-KE         1980         12.0         Completed
Fisheries                             1051-KE         1980         6.5          Completed
Fourth Agriculture                    1995-KE         1981        25.0          Completed
Forestry III                          2098-KE         1982        21.5          Completed
Forestry III                          1213-KE         1982         16.0         Completed
Cotton Processing and Marketing       1237-KE         1982         22.0         Completed
Agricultural Technical Assistance     1277-KE         1983         6.0          Completed
National Extension                    1387-KE         1983         15.0         Completed
Agriculture Sector Adjustment         1717-KE         1986        20.0          Completed
Operation
Agriculture Sector                    2204-KE         1991        75.0         Ongoing\l
Adjustment Operation 11
Agriculture Sector                    2445-KE         1992         19.4          Ongoing
Management Project II
\I  Second tranche of ASAO 11 was cancelled in 12/92, due to GOK's
reversal of maize movement liberalization measures.



21
Table 2. Project Timetable
Activity                   Date Planned         Revised Date         Actual Date
- Preparation                February 1985                             February 1985
- Appraisal                 June 1985                                 June 1985
- Post-Appraisal                                                       November 1985
- Negotiations                                                         April 1986
- Board Presentation         May 1986                                 June 1986
- Credit Signature                                                     February 1987
- Credit Effectiveness       September 1986                            March 1987
- Project Completion         June 1991           June 1992            June 1992
- Credit Closing             December 1991       December 1992         December 1992



22
Table 3. Cumulative IDA Credit Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                   1987    1988    1989    1990      1991      1992     1993
Appraisal Estimate (SDR m)l/       1.6     4.4     6.4      8.2      9.5      10.2       -
Actual (SDR m)2/                  0.9      3.0     4.6      7.4      8.4       9.5      9.9
Actual as % of Estimate            56      68       72      90       88        93       97
1/ Per Implementation Volume.
2/  Per World Bank disbursements records.



Table 4A. Project Implementation
[   Indicator        |        Unit         |   Appraisal          Actual        Actual as %                  Remarks
l  I                  |  Estimatel/                        o r Estimate
f. MOALD
- Microprocessors                      Number                 4                  5             125
- Long-term Training                Number of Staff           51                40              76       All except 3 persons passed their higher
degree/diploma exams.
- Short-term Training               Number of Staff           59               105             178
- Motor Vehicles                       Number                 -                  2              -
2. DRSRS (KREMU)
- Air Craft                            Number                 2                  2             100
- Motor Vehicles                       Number                 7                  6              86
- Technical Training                Number of Staff           50                 6              12       All long-term. There were also 2 local
workshops.
3. NCPB
- Computer Systems Expert             Staff-years             2                  2             100
- Microprocessors                      Number                 26          See Remarks                    I mainframe; 47 personal computers.
- Long-term Training                Staff Numbers              I               -                -
- Short-term Training                Staff Numbers          1,753            2,000              -        Local and in-house training.
- Computer Building                    Number                 -                  I
1/ Per Implementation Volume.



Table 4A. Project Implementation (continued)
Indicator                            Unit           Appraisal         Actual     Actual as % of               Remarks
I   Estimate                       Estimate
4. ISC
- Resident Experts                                 Staff-years            2               0
- Long-term Training                             Staff Numbers            6               1              17
- Short-term Training                            Staff Numbers            6              20             333
5. Treasury
- Microprocessors                                   Number                2             n.a.
- Long-term Training                             Staff Numbers           13               2              15
- Short-term Training                            Staff Numbers           37              28              76
6. NIB
- Head Office and Centralized Scheme
Accounting                                                                                                       Physical targets not defined in
- Mweya and Bura                                                                                                  Implementation Volume. liowever, 5
Decentralized Scheme Accounting                                                                                  Personal Computers were bought by
the project and put to several account
- Computers                                                                              5               -        recording applications. No training
-aConsultancy                                                                                                    activity was undertaken under the
project.
- Training



Table 4B. Long Term Technical Assistance under ASMP
Institution            Time Period                              Area of Technical                       Nationality
Assistance
MOA                    Aug 88 - Mar 89                          Research Assistant                      Kenyan
MOA                    1988-1989                                Research Assistant                      Kenyan
MOA                    1986-June 91                             Economic Advisor                        Non-Kenyan
MOA                    Mar 86-June 86                           Budget Advisor                          Non-Kenyan
MOA                    1986-1989                                Budget Advisor                          Non-Kenyan
MOA                    Feb 89 - Feb 92                          Economic Advisor                        Kenyan
MOA                    Aug 90 -Dec 92                           Economic Advisor                        Kenyan
MOA & MOLD             Aug 90 - Dec 92                          Budget Advisor                          Non-Kenyan
MOA & MOLD             Aug 90 - Dec 92                          Computer Analyst                        Kenyan
MOA & MOLD             Aug 90 - Dec 92                          Computer Analyst                        Kenyan
MOA & MOLD             Aug 90 - Dec 92                          Computer Analyst                        Kenyan
MOA & MOLD             Aug 90 - Dec 92                          Computer Analyst                        Kenyan
MOA & MOLD             Aug 90 - Dec 92                          Computer Analyst                        Kenyan
MOA & MOLD             Aug 90 - Dec 92                          Computer Analyst                        Kenyan
DRSRS                  June 87 - Sept 91                        System Analyst                          Non-Kenyan
DRSRS                  Aug 90 - Dec 92                          System Analyst                          Non-Kenyan
DRSRS                  June 90 - Dec 92                         Pilot                                   Non-Kenyan
DRSRS                  June 90 - Dec 92                         Pilot                                   Non-Kenyan
DRSRS                  June 90 - March 92                       Pilot                                   Non-Kenyan
MOLD                   Aug 89 - Dec 92                          Economic Advisor                        Kenyan
MOLD                   Sept 89 - Dec 89                         Economic Advisor                        Kenyan
MOLD                   Dec 89 - Apr 90                          Research Assistant                      Kenyan
MOLD                   Oct - Dec 88                             Research Assistant                      Kenyan
MOF                    June 90 - Dec 92                         Finance Advisor                         Kenyan
MOF                    Oct 89 - Jan 90                          Economic Advisor                        Kenyan
MOF                    Mar 86 - Aug 90                          Budget Advisor                          Non-Kenyan
MOA=Ministry of Agriculture; MOLD=Ministry of Livestock Development; DRSRS=Departmentof Resource Surveys & Remote Sensing; MOF=Ministry of Finance
Source: Ministry of Agriculture & Livestock Development



Table 5A. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Component                                     ............ Appraisal Estimatel/                         .         .        ........... ActuaI2/ .
Local Costs         Foreign Costs               Total              Local Costs    | Foreign Costs3/  |              Total
Min. of Agriculturc and Livestock Development          1.0                   5.5                    6.5                   na.                    n.a.                  n.a.
DRSRS (KREMU)                                          2.9                   3.2                    6.1                   n.a.                   n.a.                  n.a.
National Cereals and Produce Board                    0.5                    0.9                    1.4                   n.a.                   n.a.                   n.a
National Irrigation Board                             0.1                    0.1                    0.2                   n.a.                   n. a.                 n.a.
Inspectorate of State Corporation                     0.1                    0.5                    0.6                   n.a.                   n.a.                  n.a.
Trcasury                                               0.2                   1.3                    1.5                   n.a.                   n.a                   n.a.
Min. of Planning and National Development             0.2                    0.5                    0.7                   n.a.                   n.a                   n.a.
Total Base Costs                                    5.0                   12.0                   17.0                    6.5                   13.2                  19.7
Physical Contingencies                                0.3                    0.4                    0.7
Price Contingencies                                   0.9                    2.1                    3.0
TOTAL COSTS                                         6.2                   14.5                   20.7                   6.5                    13.2                  19.7
1/  Per Implementation Volume.
2/  Estimate as of 12/31/92. Actual cost figures are inclusive of contingencies.
3/  Per IDA disbursement records.



27
Table 5B. Project Costs and Financing
B. Project Financing (SDR m)
A. IDA                                                     Plannedl/       Revised         Actual2/
1. Equipment and Materials (for Parts D, E, F of Project)        0.5             0.3            0.6
2. DRSRS (Vehicles, Equipment, Planes, Consultants,              4.0             4.0            3.7
Operating Costs, Training for Part C of Project)
3. Consultant Services (Parts E & F of Project)                  0.6             0.1           0.1 3/
4. Technical Assistance Pool (TA, Training, some equipment       3.7             5.5            5.5
& vehicles for Parts A, B & D of Project)
5. Training (Parts E & F of project)                             0.5             0.1            - 4/
6. Operating Costs (Parts D, E, F of project)                    0.4             0.2             -
7. Unallocated                                                   0.5              -              -
Sub-total                                                     10.2            10.2           9.9
B. Other Donors
1. CIDA                                                          2.0              -              -
2. UNDP                                                          1.4
3. USAID                                                         0.3
4. SIDA                                                          0.4
Sub-total                                                     4.1              -              -
C. Governrment of Kenya                                          4.3             4.3            4.9
TOTAL                                                         18.6            14.5           14.8
1/ Per Development Credit Agreement & Implementation Volume.
2/ Per [DA disbursement records as at 10/15/93.
3/ Approximately SDR 44,570
4/ SDR 19,575



28
Table 6. Project Results
Indicators        Appraisal    Actual/Estimate           Remarks
Estimate    at Closing Date
A. Direct Benefits:
No SAR Indicators          n.a.            n.a.
B. Economic Impact:
No SAR Indicators          n.a.            n.a.      This was essentially an
institution building project.
C. Financial Impact:
No SAR Indicators          n.a.            n.a.



Table 7. Status of Covenants
Credit Agreement Section  Subject                                                                                         Status
FINANCIAL COVENANTS:
ARTICLE IV
4.01 (a) (i)                    The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained accounts adequate to reflect, in   Complied partially; While project accounts
accordance with consistently appropriate accounting practices, the operations, resources and    were maintained, Audit reporis state that no
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower  records evidencing the expenditures (for
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.                            which withdrawals were made from the
Credit account) were maintained/made
available by project authorities to the
Auditors.
(a) (ii)                  Not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, the Borrower shall prepare,  Complied partially; reports not always
according to the format of the monthly report, and submit to the Association, an annual report delivered on time & no reports available
certifying that the accounts included in that report are consistent with the final unaudited  after FY90, from project filesl/.
relevant Borrower's ledger accounts.
(c)                       The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each  Audited statements not available after FY90,
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing pnnciples consistendy applied, by  from project files.
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                                                                                               ti
PROGRAMME:SCHEDULE 4                                                                                                                                                         XD
1. (a)              The Borrower shall establish a Project Coordinating Committee to provide a forum for the  PCC established, but with the split of
exchange of information and to ensure that project accounts are assembled.               MOALD into separate ministries & transfer
of NIB & NCPB to other ministries, the
PCC lost much of its clout.
2. (a)              MOA, MOLD, NCPB, KREMU, NIB, ISB, the Investment Divisions, and the Budget               Panially done.
Rationalization Coninuttee shall all prepare annual work plans before the start of the budget
cycle.
3. (a)              TAP shall manage technical experts for MOA, MOLD, MOF, MPND, and NCPB. TAP shall Done through HIID.
also administer funds for overseas & local training.
4. (a)              MOA and MOLD shall appoint a Project Coordinator to provide a focus for MOA and          PC appointed, but with the split of MOALD,
MOLD project activities and guidance on Project issues.                                  his role became a token one.
1/ Project documentation available from project files in the Africa ISC Files unit at World Bank Head Quarters.



30
TABLE 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A:  Staff Inputs
Stage of          '84     '85      '86      '87       '88       '89     '90      '91      '92       '93     '94
Project
C ycle__            _  _  _ _ _    __ _ _   _ _  _   __  _ _  _  _ _   __  _ _  _  _ _   __  _ _   _ _ _    __  _  _
Preparation/Pre
-Appraisal        0 7     22 9
Appraisal                  14.9    29.8
Negotiation                         10.7
Supervision                                 2 3 3     10.1      16.9    10.4    9.1       8.3
Othier                                                                                             4.2       7.0
TOTAL             0.7      37.8    40.5    23.3       10.1      16.9    10.4    9.1       83       4.2      70
Preparation / Supervision Ratio = 79 / 78.1  =  1.01



Table 8. Use of IDA Resources
B. Missionsl/
Stage of Project Cycle     Sent by    Month/Year    No. of Persons    Period in Field    Specialization    Performance
(weeks)         Represented         Rating
Preparation                     IDA            2/85               4                  3            E, B, M, ME
Appraisal                       IDA            6/85               4                  3             E., MIS, T
Post-Appraisal                  IDA           11/85               7                  3          E, F, MIS, T, M
Effectiveness Mission           IDA           11/86               5                  2               E, MIS
Supervision 1                   IDA            4/87               4                  2                n.a.               2
Supervision 2                   IDA           11/87               6                  3             E, MIS, B             2
Supervision 3                   IDA            8/88               2                  3                E, T               2
Supervision 4                   IDA           4/89                2                  2              E, MIS               2
Supervision 5                   IDA            9/89             n.a.               n. a.              n. a.             n.a.
Supervision 6                   IDA            3/90               3                  2           E, MIS, ENV             2
Supervision 7                   IDA           9/90                1                  2                 E                 2
Supervision 8                   IDA           8/91              n.a.               n.a.               n.a.               2
Supervision 9                   IDA           8/92              n.a.               n.a.               n.a.               2
Specializations: E = Economist; B = Budgeting; M = Management; ME = Monitoring and Evaluation; T   Training; F = Fin. Analyst;
/ Some of the information relating to the supervision missions was not available from files.



