*::; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~p r -':
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
cC
Report No. P-4236-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
June 2, 1986
4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =        Kenya Shilling (KSh)
and Pounds (Kr)
KSh 20       =       KE1
KSh 1.00       =       US$0.06 a/
US$1.00       =       KSh 16
US$1.00       =        1.13827 SDR  bI
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
I ha       =       2.47 acres
1 km       =       0.62 miles
1 sq. km       =       0.39 sq. miles
ASMP     Agricultural Sector Management Project
ATAP     Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CLSMB    Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
DPD      Development Planning Division
DPM      Directorate of Personnel Management
PAO      Food and Agriculture Organization (United Nations)
GIS      Geographical Information System
GTI      Government Training Institute
ICB      International Competetive Bidding
ISB      Inspectorate of Statutory Boards
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
KIA      Kenya Institute of Administration
KGGCU    Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative Union
KMC      Kenya Meat Commission
KREMU    Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit
MALD     Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
MENR     Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MOCD     Ministry of Cooperative Development
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MPND     Ministry of Planning and National Development
NCPB     National Cereals and Produce Board
NCPD     National Council on Population and Development
NIB      National Irrigation Board
SAL II   Second Structural Adjustment Program
SIDA     Swedish International Development Agency
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
TAP      Technical Assistance Pool
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
a/   Since August 1985, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SLR 1 = KSh 17.74. The rate vis-a-vis the US dollar
fluctuates. A rate of US$1 = KSh 16 has been used in evaluating this
Project.
b/   As of March 31, 1986.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
BORROWER:         Government of Kenya
IMPLEMENTING     Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development
AGENCIES:         (MALD), Finance (MOF), and Planning and National
Development (MPND); Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring
Unit (KREMD); Inspectorate of Statutory Boards (ISB);
National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB); and National
Irrigation Board (NIB).
AMOUNT:           SDR 10.2 million (US$11.5 million equivalent).
TERMS:            Standard.
PROJECT           The Project would assist in strengthening public
DESCRIPTION       sector institutions to deliver key services and
toformulate agricultural policy through building their
capacity to manage resources, implement programs and
projects, and analyze agricultural policy issues. The
Project would also support essential reform programs under
the proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Operation ia
the areas of budget rationalization, pricing and policy
analysis, parastatals, and monitoring of implementation of
Government's agriculture sector adjustment program. This
would be achieved through: (a) technical assistance; (b)
programs to support budget rationalization; (c)
improvement of policy making and its linkages to
budgeting, management and project preparation; (d)
strengthening Government parastatal oversight agencies and
selected parastatals, including NIB; (e) support to NCPB
to upgrade financial and stock management and food
security; (f) support and technical assistance to KREMU to
improve natural resource data; and (g) trainilg. The
project is the second phase to the on-going Agricultural
Technical Assistance Project, and would extend over five
years.
BENEFITS AND     The Project would focus on addressing sectoral policy
RISKS:            making, management and financial problems impeding the
performance of key agricultural sector institutions.
Benefits would include more efficient resource use,
improved management of projects and services, and more
effective agricultural policy. Primary beneficiaries
would be the farmers, especially smallholders, served by
these institutions. Risks concern the extent and pace of
reform programs and the effective use of technical
assistance. Government recognition of mcanagement and
financial problems has increased, but institutions remain
weak and progress may be slow. Technical assistance has
often been used for operational rather than advisory
tasks. This risk will be mitigated through improved work
planning and extensive training to build local staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents niay not otherwise be disckbed without World Bank authorization.|



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:                                  Local   Foreign   Total
-    US$ Millions
Technical Assistance
Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development                      431    2,867    3,298
Ministries of Finance, and Planning
and National Development                   187    1,319    1,506
Inspectorate of Statutory Boards              78      190       268
KREMU                                        551    1,837    2,388
NCPB                                          33      380       413
NIB                                           77      103       180
Vehicles, Planes and Equipment               1,133    1,253    2,386
Operating Costs                              1,016      575    1,591
Training                                       961    3,304    4,265
Staff                                          511      195       706
Base Cost                          4,978   12,023   17,001
Contingencies:
Physical                                     256      436       692
Price                                        910    2,065    2,975
Total Project Cost a!              6,144   14,524   20,668
FINANCING PLAN:                                  Local   Foreign   Total
-US$  Millions
Government of Kenya a/                     4.8     -        4.8
IDA                                        1.3     10.2   11.5
CIDA                                       0.5      1.7    2.2
UNDP                                       0.2      1.4    1.6
USAID                                      0.3      -       0.3
SIDA                                       0.1      0.3    0.4
Total a!                                7.2     13.5   20.7
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:          -US$ Millions
Fiscal Year:       1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Annual                  1.8    3.2    2.2    2.0    1.5    0.8
Cumulative              1.8    5.0    7.2    9.2   10.7   11.5
RATE OF RETURN:                 Not applicable.
APPRAISAL REPORT:               No separate report.
MAP:                            IBRD No. 12438R2
a/   Including taxes and duties of US$1.8 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PRO.TECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation ..a a proposed
Credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 10.2 million (USA11.5 million
equivalent) on standard terms, to assist in the financing of an
agricultural sector management project. The project would be implemented
by the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MALD), Finance
(MOF), and Planning and National Develcpment (MPND); Kenya Rangeland
Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU); Inspectorate of Statutory Boards (ISB);
the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB); and the National Irrigation
Board (NIB).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 6021-KE) dated March
24, 1986, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary of
social and economic data is in Annex I.
Trends in the 1960s and 1970s
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  Kenya's first decade
as an independent nation was one of remarkable growth and structural trans-
formation. Total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6% during
1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4%
per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was stimulated by the
conversion of considerable high-potential land from extensive use to small-
holder cultivation, the introduction of high-value production activities,
and the adoption of high-yielding maize varieties. Growth of manufacturing
was made possible very largely by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
4.        Following the first oil crisis of 1973, growth decelerated to 4%
p.a., or virtual stagnation in per capita terms, reflecting not only the
oil shock, but also the emergence or intensification of structural con-
straints largely unrelated to the post-1973 terms of trade deterioration.
These problems are briefly described below.
(a)  First, agricultural ,-owth decelerated, due partly to the
tapering off of the specific positive factors which had sustained
agricultural growth in the first decade after independence and
partly to Government policies, including trade and exchange rate
policies which turned the internal terms of trade against the
agricultural sector, and inefficient, monopolistic Government
involvement in agricultural marketing which discouraged
production and placed undue burdens on the budget.



- 2 -
(b) Second, industrial growth also decelerated, and was being
accomplished at an increasingly higher cost in terms of the
capital-intensity of investment, low labor absorption, and the
burden on the balance of payments of a sector which imported a
substantial volume of intermediate goods for "final touch"
processing and assembly, but exported very little. These
undesirable features resulted from Government policies which
included high and increasing levels of protection, and
inadequately selective Government financial participation in
industrial firms.
(c) Third, energy supplies became relatively more expensive, due to
increases in world oil prices, and imbalances between consumption
and replenishment of domestic woodfuel.
(d) Fourth, the public sector over expanded and was inadequately
managed.
(e) Fifth, export volume grew by less than 1% annually, and exports
became more concentrated on coffee, tea, and petroleum products.
(f) Sixth, population growth accelerated to one of the highest rates
in the world, reflecting a decline in mortality, and health
improvements enabling fertility to move closer to its biological
limit.
Developments During 1980-85
5.        The Fourth and Fifth Plans.  The above structural issues were
generally well recognized in the Fourth Development Plan (1979-83) and the
Fifth Development Plan (1984-88), which have provided broad guidance to the
Government's economic policies during the first half of the 1980s. The
Fourth Plan stated that quantitative import restrictions (QRs) for purposes
of industrial protection would be discontinued, and that restrictions on
private sector agricultural marketing activity would be relaxed. It
projected GDP growth of 6.3% annually. The Fifth Plan declares that
"Growth in the private sector is the core of the development process in
Kenya," and proposes to provide a more favorable environment for private
sector activity by lowering the claim of Government expenditure on
available resources; curtailing or in some cases eliminating Government
investment in non-essential activities; and reviewing Government procedures
for obtaining various approvals and licenses to determine whether any can
be eliminated or simplified. GDP growth is projected to be 4.9Z annually.
6.        Macroeconomic Developments.  Actual developments in the Kenyan
economy during the first half of the 1980s have been less favorable than
projected in the Fourth and Fifth Plans. Because of the second oil crisis,
the deterioration in the external terms of trade was sharper than had been
projected in the Fourth Plan; additionally, in the wake of the -coffee
boom' of the late 1970s there had been an erosion of fiscal discipline. As
a result, at the beginning of the decade, the Kenyan economy was
characterized by large financial imbalances. The large excesses of
domestic demand over domestic supply, of expenditure over revenue, and of
imports over exports, meant that the Kenyan economy was on an unsustainable
path.



- 3 -
7.        The period since 1980 has been characterized by a steady
reduction in the excess of domestic demand over domestic supply. The
Government has restrained domestic demand by lowering its budget deficit;
decelerating monetary growth; raising interest rates so that they become
positive in real terms; and permitting real wages to fall, beginning in
1982. In 1981, the Government began to use exchange rate policy to bring
about adjustment and, in addition, in 1982 import restrictions were
intensified. As a result of these measures, by 1984 real domestic demand
was 5% less than in 1980, despite the fact that the population increased by
almost 17% during this period, and inflation, which peaked at 22% in 1982,
fell to a rate of 10% in 1984. The current account deficit, which was 13%
of GDP in 1980, was brought down to less than 4% of GDP in 1983 and 1984.
The burden of reduction in domestic demand has fallen largely on investment
rather than on consumption. On the external side, the resource gap has
been narrowed entirely by a reduction in imports, since exports have
declined in real terms. The Government's stabilization efforts were
supported by a series of IMF programs, the most recent of which was
completed in February 1986.
8.        Growth of supply has been somewhat erratic, and the trend growth
rate slightly less than the population growth rate. Real gross domestic
product grew by 3.7% annually during 1980-83, and then by only 0.9% during
the drought-affected year, recovering to an estimated 4.2% in 1985. During
this period of time, Kenya's external terms of trade have deteriorated, and
therefore its real income grew more slowly than its real product. From
1980 to 1984, real product per capita fell by 5%, real income per capita
fell by 10%, and real domestic expenditure (i.e. consumption plus
investment) per capita fell by 18%.
9.       The record current account deficits of 1980-82 were financed
partly by a record level of borrowing, and partly by a substantial
reduction in the level of gross reserves. In the period since 1982, the
Government has succeeded in bringing the borrowing requirement down to a
level which could be financed largely by official sources. Because of the
combination of rising debt service payments and generally lower export
receipts, the debt service ratio rose sharply from 13% in 1980 to 30% in
1985.
10.       Agricultural Sector.  Performance and prospects of the
agricultural sector are discussed below in Part III (para. 36).
11.       The Industrial Sector.  Value added in the manufacturing sector
grew by 3.7% p.a. during the period 1980-84. Since the volume of
manufactured exports declined, the growth was entirely attributable to
production for the domestic market, reflecting expenditure-switching away
from imports in the wake of exchange rate depreciation and intensification
of import restrictions, particularly on consumer goods.
12.       Implementation of the Government's program for reforming the
protective system has lagged behind the schedule originally envisaged. Due
to inadequate coordination of exchange rate, demand management, and trade
policies, a foreign exchange shortage developed in 1982, following which
the Government re-restricted some of the import items which had been
liberalized. Progress has recently resumed. The June 1985 budget



- 4 -
contained the first increase in several years in the number of items on the
free list, and there has been an increase in foreign exchange
authorizations for imports. The June 1984 and June 1985 budgets also
included lowering of many tariffs. Despite the recent resumption of
progress, it appears that effective protection has remained high and
uneven. Because the protective system remained largely in place during
1980-84, its consequences of inward-looking bias and encouragement of
inefficient use of capital in the manufacturing sector persisted.
13.       Aside from exchange rate depreciation, relatively little was done
to promote exports until the June 1985 budget, when an increase in the rate
of export compensation (a fiscal incentive for selected nontraditional
exports) to 20% (of export value) was announced. During 1980-84, the
volume of Kenya's manufactured exports declined by 38%, to a level of only
4.5% of gross output. The low level of manufactured exports is
attributable to the incentive structure which has remained biased against
exports, while the decline seems to be attributable to foreign exchange
problems in neighboring African countries.
14.       Energy Sector.  Energy consumption in the Kenyan economy
increased by 3% annually during 1980-84. Fuelwood consumption is estimated
to have increased by 4% annually and charcoal consumption by 6Z annually
while "modern sector" energy consumption (i.e., petroleum products,
electricity, and coal) decreased during 1980-83, reflecting adjustment to
higher energy prices, before beginning to recover in 1984. Energy pricing
policies have provided an appropriate incentive for conservation.
Dependence on imported petroleum has been reduced somewhat by development
of domestic geothermal and hydroelectric resources, and by a very limited
amount of conversion of coal.
15.       The Public Sector.  The Central Government budget deficit went
down from 9% of GDP in FY81 to 4% of GDP in recent years, despite a
significant decline in the ratio of revenue to GDP, because of sharp
reductions in expenditure and an increase in grants from abroad. The ratio
of government revenue to GDP decreased from 25% in FY81 to 22% in FY85.
The decline in revenue is due to decreased collection of import duties,
arising primarily from contraction of import volume and secondarily from
lowering of tariff rates.
16.       The ratio of government expenditure to GDP has dec.eased sharply
from 35% in FY81 to 28% in FY85. Among expenditure categories, interest
payments increased and personnel expenditure was relatively protected,
while non-wage operating and maintenance expenditure, fixed capital
formation expenditure, and transfers to parastatals are the three
categories which were reduced. The problem of inadequate non-wage
operating and maintenance expenditure, which has existed since the late
1970s, has thus been exacerbated. At the same time, because lower levels
of capital expenditure have been spread out over a large number of ongoing
projects, not all of which have been of equally high priority, completion
dates for many projects have been postponed.
17.       The Government has begun to address these expenditure issues
through its Budget Rationalization Program (BRP), initiated in 1985. The
objective of the program is to increase the productivity of Government
investment, by concentrating capital expenditures on a smaller number of



- 5 -
priorities projects and by providing adequate resources for operation and
maintenance of the existing Government capital stock. In order to
implement the budget rationalization concept, ministries are now required
to prepare policy statements on recurrent and development expenditure
priorities, and to rank projects in their portfolio according to priority
criteria. Additionally, the Government intends to develop norms and
standards for capacity utilization, and to achieve greater collections of
user charges, as part of the program.
18.       The Government's intention has been to implement a two-pronged
strategy to address parastatal issues, consisting of divestiture of some
investments to the private sector, and strengthening the performance of
those parastatals which remain in the public sector. A Task Force on
Divestiture was established in 1983. So far, divestitures have been few
and of a small scale. In a significant move, the Government recently
decided to divest the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) of its
processing and marketing activities. The Government has checked the
further expansion, through utilization of budgetary funds, of the
parastatal sector. However, during FY83 and FY84, the parastatals
responded to the decrease in budgetary transfers by increasing their
utilization of banking system credit. It is difficult to assess, due to
lack of readily available and consistent data, what progress there has been
in improving the economic efficiency and financial performance of the
sector. In the area of institutional and procedural strengthening, the
pace of progress has been relatively slow.
19.       Population.  Kenya's population growth rate, currently 3.9% per
annum, is the highest in the world. Fertility has begun to decline in
Kenya, but at a slow rate, from an extremely high level. The total
fertility rate has declined from a peak of 8.1 in 1977 to 7.7 in 1984. At
the present time, Kenya is one of the only three countries in the world
with a total fertility rate greater than 7.0. The recent rate of fertility
decline of 0.7% per annum is well below the declines of 2% per annum or
more achieved by countries with vigorous population programs. The
Government has recently intensified its commitment to addressing the
problem of rapid population growth. The National Council on Population and
Development (NCPD) has adopted a target of slowing population growth to
3.3% p.a. by 1988, the end of the Fifth Plan period. This would represent
a dramatic acceleration in the rate of fertility decline. However, an
adequate program to meet this objective has not yet been defined. In order
to achieve or move closer to the demographic objective, an expansion of
both demand-creating education activities and service delivery will be
needed.
20.       Summary Assessment of Recent Developments.  In view of the
combination of the economy's structural problems and adverse exogenous
developments such as terms of trade deterioration and drought, the
deceleration of growth and decline in per capita incomes taking place in
Kenya during the first half of the 1980s were inevitable. What was not
inevitable was whether this deceleration would take place in an orderly
fashion, with declining financial imbalances and rates of inflation, and
maintenance of a manageable external position; or, as in many other
developing countries, in a disorderly fashion, with persisting large
financial imbalance, high rates of inflation, and external payments



- 6 -
difficulties. Of those developing countries which faced large financial
imbalances at the beginning of the decade, Kenya is among those which have
successfully reduced them toward sustainable levels in an orderly fashion.
Progress in addressing long-term issues of "supply side" structural reform
has been slower and less complete than in the area of demand management,
and less than envisaged in the Fourth Plan, but has included significant
steps in the right direction.
Prospects for the Kenyan Economy
21.       Growth Prospects.  Because of higher coffee prices and lower oil
prices, Kenya's external terms of trade are expected to improve by 21% in
1986-87, as compared with 1985. There will be substantial increases in
export receipts, national income, and government revenue. GDP growth
should approach 5% annually in 1986-87. In order to maintain the economy
on a stable path, the Government intends to apply some of the exceptional
coffee revenues to reducing the Government budget deficit in FY87, and to
generally manage domestic demand in such a way as to permit an accumulation
of international reserves in 1986-87, in order to provide a cushion for the
eventual return of coffee prices to more normal levels. Depending on the
pace of implementation of policy measures to improve the efficiency of
investment, expand exports, and mobilize domestic resources, after 1987
growth could either be sustained at about 5% p.a., or else could lapse back
to 3.5% p.a.
22.       The Sessional Paper.  In early 1986 the Government published its
Sessional Paper on Economic Management for Renewed Growth. With the
drought emergency over and with the economy successfully stabilized, the
objective of the Sessional Paper is to provide a framework for Kenyan
development for the remainder of this century. The Paper emphasizes that,
in order to provide productive employment for a labor force which is
expected to increase by 86% between 1985 and by year 2000, an acceleration
of output growth is needed. GDP growth is targeted to be 5.6% annually.
The Paper targets coffee production to triple, and tea production to more
than double, by the year 2000, arising from replanting with higher-yielding
varieties and area expansion. In the area of trade and industry, more
uniform import tariffs and more liberal import licensing are expected to
encourage exporting and promote greater efficiency in the manufacturing
sector. The exchange rate will be managed in such a way as to establish
Kenya's competitiveness in world markets.
23.       The Paper devotes considerable attention to rural-urban balance,
with an emphasis on town and secondary city development in order to avoid
concentration of urban population growth in Nairobi and Mombasa. The local
authorities are to be strengthened, and the District Development Committees
are to play an increasing role in plannirg rural development. The fiscal
chapter of the paper incorporates the budget rationalization program
(para. 17 above). The Paper states that the private sector must play the
dominant role in revitalizing Kenya's economy, and that the Government will
establish market-based incentives and regulatory structures to channel
private sector activity in desirable directions, while relying less on
instruments of direct control.



24.       Consultative Group Meeting.  The Consultative Group for Kenya met
in Paris on April 1986. The documentation circulated to the meeting
consisted of the Sessional Paper; a paper by the Government on its budget
rationalization program (para 17 above), in which the Government requested
greater aid flexibility, including a shift from project to nonproject aid;
and the Bank's economic report. Delegates commended the Government for its
management of the impact of the drought, and for sustaining economic and
financial stability. All participants agreed that the Sessional Paper
provides an appropriate broad framework for formulating necessary specific
measures. Delegates endorsed the strong role envisaged for the private
sector in the Paper, with some delegates expressing concern as to whether
the Government's intentions regarding various controls were fully
consistent with this objective. Delegates emphasized the need for more
rapid fertility decline.
25.       There was considerable discussion of the interlinked issues of
budget rationalization, aid flexibility, aid coordination, and aid
administration. Members of the Group agreed that the Government would have
to more rigorously establish and enforce priorities for public
expenditure. Donors expressed their willingness to re-examine existing
programs to explore possibilities for greater aid flexibility, within their
legislative contraints. It was agreed that the Government would strengthen
aid administration. It was further agreed that, in addition to the
existing local aid coordination group for the agricultural sector, local
aid coordination groups would be established for some other sectors.
26.       External Capital Requirements and Debt Servicing.  The Fifth Plan
provides for current account deficits (net external borrowing) averaging 4X
of GDP over the Plan period. This is an appropriate and sustainable level,
taking into account the concessionality of Kenya's capital inflow, and
assuming that export g: Ywth can be accelerated as intended. Due to the
increase in coffee export receipts in 1986-87, its is expected that the
cur-ent account deficits during 1986-87 will be lower than usual - about 3%
of GDP. During 1986-87, it is expected that gross loan disbursements from
official sources will be about $450 million annually, while gross loan
disbursements from private sources (chiefly suppliers' credits) will be
about $100 million annually. In addition, Kenya receives grant aid of
about $130 million annually. At the present time, Kenya does not have a
balance of payments need to qualify it for drawing on ordinary EVF
resources. Kenya is expected to draw upon the IMR Structural Adjustment
Facility, beginning in 1987. Over the next two years, the stock of
external debt owed to private sources is expected to remain approximately
constant, while the stock of debt owed to official sources would grow by 5%
annually. The debt service ratio is expected to drop sharply from 30% in
1985 to 24% in 1986, reflecting higher coffee receipta, and then decrease
gradually to 19% in 1990.
27.       IMF Relations with Kenya.  As noted earlier, Kenya's
stabilization efforts have been supported by a series of IMF programs. The
two most recent programs were successfully completed, with all planned
purchases actually made. The most recent IMF mission found that, at the
present time, Kenya does not have a balance of payments need to qualify it
for drawing on ordinary IMF resources. The Government's planned demand



- 8 -
management stance for 1986-87 (para. 21) is consistent with IMF views on
appropriate economic policies under current circumstances. Kenya is
expected to draw upon the recently established IMF structural adjustment
Facility, beginning 1987.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
28.       To date, Kenya has received 45 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 45 IDA credits, including one Special Fund Credit,
amounting to US$1,891.2 million, in support of 78 operations. In addition,
Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million
which were extended for the development of common services (railways,
ports, telecomunications, and finance for industry), operated regionally
for the three partner states of the former East African Community (EAC).
As of June 30, 1985, IFC had committed a total of US$68.5 million for 12
operations in Kenya. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank and IFC
loans, as well as IDA credits to Kenya.
29.       Since 1980, Bank Group lending has been oriented towards
assisting the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy,
resulting in the inclusion in the program of structural adjustment
assistance. SAL I supported policy reform, institutional development, and
studies in the areas of trade and industry, public expenditure planning,
and external debt management. SAL II supported continuation of the
structural adjustment program to the additional areas of agriculture,
energy, and population. Government implementation of SAL I and especially
SAL II was relatively weak, reflecting divided or inadequate commitment,
administrative weaknesses, inadequate preparation of some program
components, and diversion of Government attention toward urgent short-term
problems, including the exceptionally severe drought of 1984. The drought
contributed significantly to distracting the focus of reform in the
agricultural sector. In particular institutions like the National Cereals
and Produce Board (NCPB) which had been earmarked for reform were unable to
proceed on account of changed priorities. In view of the difficulties that
had been experienced, in 1984 the Bank and the Government agreed that, Bank
financial support for the Government's structural adjustment efforts would
be more narrowly focussed on policy-oriented sector loans. The proposed
agricultural sector operations would be the first of such loans. In the
future subject to satisfactory progress under the proposed operation, it is
envisaged that industrial restructuring, trade policy, and budget
rationalization may be supported by quick-disbursing lending. Drawing upon
the lessons of the SAL experience, greater attention has been paid to
consensus building through more active Government participation in program
preparation. This we believe, has allowed for a more realistic assessment
of the scope and pace of required policy reforms and institutional
development processes. It is our view that this approach will result in
more rapid policy reform than would occur without the BankVs involvement.
30.       Projects for financing and their design have been selected with a
view to consolidating or complementiag policy actions under the structural
adjustment program. While continuing priority has been given to
agricultural and development finance projects, increasing attention has



-9-
been given to infrastructure projects. ThUs, in FY84, the Kiatubere
Hydroelectric Power Project, the Second Highway Sector Project and a
Geothermal Exploration Project were approved. In FY85, a Nairobi Third
Water Supply Engineering Project and a Third Telecommunications Project
were approved.
31.       In contrast to FY82 and FY83, when disbursements improved over
immediate prior years, FY84 disbursements on projects as a percentage of
amounts outstanding at the beginning of the year fell slightly to 13% (19%
including disbursements against structural adjustment operations) compared
with 16% in FY83. Improvements during this period were explained by
greater use of Procedure III (direct payments), and the application of a
Treasury Circular requiring operating ministries to make prompt
reimbursement claims under penalty of freezing funds. In FY85, the
disbursement percentage rose sharply to over 37% due primarily to the
introduction of Special Accounts, the rationalization of problem projects
and the cancellation of funds, and a few projects with unusually high
disbursements.
32.       Project implementation deteriorated in the 1980s, in contrast to
the successful implementation performance in the past. However, recent
efforts by the Government and the Bank have begun to reverse this trend.
Factors accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some
of the more pervasive factors have been iastitutional/management
constraints, procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a
lack of local financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing
and submitting reimbursement claims, have led to Kenya's poor project
disbursement record. An in-depth review of the causes of this situation
has been undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible
solutions have been discussed with the Government at Country Implementation
Review (CIR) meetings. During these discussions, the Government and the
Bank are continuing to review the Government's development objectives,
project portfolio and investment priorities in the context of
implementation capacity and resource constraints. Recent improvements in
budgetary and financial management in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development which are to be introduced gradually to other
ministries, are reaping benefits. To respond swiftly to urgently required
drought relief assistance, US$20.0 million for fertilizer, chemicals, and
agricultural seasonal credit has been reallocated under the Fourth
Agricultural Finance Corporation Project (Loan 1995-KE/Cr. 1143-KE) from
loan funds which would otherwise have been unused and cancelled.
33.       At the end of 1984, IBRD held 25Z, and IBRD/IDA combined held 39%
of Kenya's stock of external debt. During 1984, IBRD's share of Kenya's
debt service payments was 22%, and IBRD/IDA's share was 23%. Over the next
few years, our expectation is that Kenya's debt owed to private sources
will grow more slowly than Kenya's debt owed to official sources, such as
the Bank Group, reflecting the Government's success at reducing, through
stabilization measures, the country's borrowing requirements. Therefore,
by 1990, the IBRD/IDA share of the stock of external debt is expected to
increase sharply to 40%, and the share of debt service payments to 25Z.



- 10 -
PART III - THE SECTOR
General Background
34.       Despite Kenya's progress in industrialization, the agricultural
sector reudins vitally important for the continued growth and development
of the domestic economy, as well as for the livelihoods of most of Kenya's
people. Kenya is fundamentally an agricultural country. Agriculture's
share of GDP (31% i- 1984) is still the highest of any sector. The
population remains predominantly rural (85%) and agriculture provides
employment (directly or indirectly) for nearly 70% of the nation's people.
The sector produces nearly all of Kenya's food, and serves as the main
source of export earnings (68% in 1985) and raw materials for the
predominantly resource-based industrial sector. The two major agricultural
exports, coffee and tea, still account for over 50% of foreign exchange
earnings.
35.       While Kenya's agricultural structure has undergone considerable
change since Independence in 1963, it is still characterized by a degree of
dualism. Ranches and large farms cover about 40% of total farmed area,
while smallholdings cover the remaining 60%. With the continuing
subdivision of large group-owned farms, the proportion of land owned and
operated by smallholders is increasing. Smallholder agriculture is the
dominant mode of production, accounting for an estimated 75% of production
and 85% of total agricultural employment. The average size of Kenya's 1.7
million smallholdings is 2.3 ha, with over three-quarters of these under
2 ha. Although smallbolders consume much of their own output, they also
play a crucial role in commercial production of both export crops and
domestic cash and food crops. Maize is Kenya's staple crop and dominates
the cropping patterns. Smallholders produce about 45% of the marketed
production of maize, 60% of coffee, 35% of tea, 45% of sugarcane, 50% of
milk, and almost all the marketed production of rice, pulses, cotton and
pyrethrum. The large farm sector includes plantations and estates
producing cash crops, ranches, and mixed farms; the sector is a major
commercial producer of maize, wheat, cattle, coffee, tea and sugarcane.
Performance and Near-Term Prospects
36.       The slow rate of agricultural growth in recent years has caused
concern because of the critical links between agriculture and the rest of
the economy. Kenya's rapid economic growth during the first decade
following Independence was, in no small measure, due to the strong growth
of the agricultural sector, which expanded at the impressive rate of 4.7%
per annum. These vigorous growth rates decelerated to 3.2% between
1973-83. Over the same period, the population growth rate accelerated to
3.9%, signaling a decline in per capita production. There was a surge in
growth after droughts afflicted Kenya in 1979, 1980 and 1984. Growth of
agricultural GDP fell to -3.7% in 1984, and the country incurred heavy
financial burdens due to massive food imports, even with generous donor
assistance. Preliminary estimates indicate that growth recovered in 1985,
helped by record maize and wheat crops.   Production of traditional export
crops has shown strong growth over the period 1972-83 (averaging 7.6% p.a.



- 11 -
for coffee and 10.1% for tea), while production of domestically consumed
crops has lagged behind population growth.
37.       Although drought has contributed to low agricultural growth rates
over the past decade, uneven sectoral performance is due to a number of
factors, of which weather is but one. Further contributions to growth from
the factors which stimulated growth in the 1960. (para. 3) are limited.
Since the early 1970s, growth has been affected by: (a) an unfavorable
economic environment, including unstable prices for major export crops,
deteriorating internal and external terms of trade and rising input costs;
(b) severely constrained supplies of arable land; (c) resource constraints,
management problems and weak institutions in the agricultural sector,
including in weak agricultural services, weak financial management and
resource allocation, and poor returns from public investment; and (d)
inadequate incentives for investment and production, including low returns
for some commodities, low official producer prices in previous years,
inefficient marketing channels for some key crops, and interest rate
poliLy.
Constraints and Recent Actions
38.       Land Availability.  The major constraint for agricultural growth
and development in Kenya is the shortage of good quality arable land,
exacerbated by already high population densities and continued rapid
population growth. Only about 20% of Kenya's 575,000 sq. km can be
considered high or medium quality land; another 9% can produce crops, but
is subject to periodic drought. The remaining land area is suitable mainly
for cattle production. In the early 1960s, Kenya had about two acres of
high potential land per person; in the year 2000, there will be only half
an acre of such land per person. On this limited resource base, Kenyals
agricultural sector must nevertheless continue to meet three fundamental
objectives: increasing employment, assuring adequate food supplies, and
contributing foreign exchange for economic development. In particular,
future growth will depend mainly on the intensification of smallholder
production, combined with effective resource conservation and supported by
improved agricultural services. The challenge is formidable, but Kenya's
farmers have responded to challenges in the past.
39.       Agricultural Services and Inputs.  In addition to shortages of
land, agricultural growth has been affected by poor development of
agricultural services, particularly those directed towards smallholder
farmers. After major successes in the 1960s, Kenya's research system has
declined. The Government has recently completed a national research
program to revitalize and reorient agricultural research; the program will
be funded by IDA and other donors. The extension system has been weak, but
is now being improved through the IDA-financed National Extension Project
(Cr. 1387-KE), although continued efforts need to be sustained to maintain
these improvements. In agricultural credit, public credit institutions are
weak, credit repayment rates are low, commercial bank lending is
constrained, and credit policies have not improved access to credit for
many farmers. Although input use is high in Kenya compared to many
countries, use of agricultural inputs, especially fertilizer, has stagnated



- 12 -
in the last decade; use among smallholders and on food crops is notably
low. This is particularly worrisome, given land pressures and projected
food needs. Problems in this area have included Government regulation and
pricing policies which discourage timely and widespread distribution and
limited development of rural supply channels. Finally, marketing services
for several key crops are dominated by inefficient parastatals and market
controls, which hamper cost-effective marketing and discourage production.
40.       Incentives.  Production incentives have generally been improved
over the last five years, particularly as official prices for many crops
have increased substantially. Nevertheless, many farmers do not receive
official prices, due to lengthy delays in payouts, high marketing
deductions, and insufficient and underdeveloped marketing channels.
Official marketing monopolies for several crops have been inefficient and
costly.
41.       Over the past four years, the Government has taken several steps
to overcome the constraints and to stimulate sectoral growth, first under
the Second Structural Adjustment Program (SAL II) in 1982 and more recently
as part of its Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program. Under SAL II, the
Government increased producer prices and began a successful program to
improve management and budgeting in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development (MALD). Over the past year, the Government has
initiated reforms in other key areas. In early 1986, Government began
divestiture of the processing and marketing activities of the Cotton Lint
and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB), marking an important step in dealing with
problem sector parastatals. Action plans for the restructuring, partial
divestment and rehabilitation of several other parastatals are being
drafted. In the area of input supply, the Government has improved
fertilizer import licensing procedures, expanded the number of recipients
and improved coordination of commodity aid. Producer prices were increased
markedly in 1982 and incentives have been maintained; consumer subsidies
have been controlled or reduced; and several marketing parastatals have
improved speed of payments. Interest rates are now positive, and critical
reforms have been introduced into the public New Seasonal Credit Scheme in
the North Rift Area. Finally, the Government has launched the ambitious
Budget Rationalization Program (para. 20). The Bank has appraised an
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit to support these efforts; the proposed
Project would provide technical assistance, training and logistical support
to assist in implementation of reform programs.
Institutions and Related Issues
42.       Management and institutional issues have emerged as important
constraints to development in Kenya. This is particularly true in the
public sector, which provides important services to farmers (research,
extension and credit) and whose policies have a direct role in shaping
farmer response. 't is becoming increasingly apparent that there is a
widening gap between management resources and the demands placed upon those
resources, affecting policy, project and program implementation, delivery
of services, and absorptive capacity. Kenya's current implementation
problems stem in part from overloading institutions which are not yet ready



- 13 -
to Iandle all the complicated and extensive administrative tasks assigned
to them. Addressing institutional problems will require a combination of
cutting down on lower priority activities and redirecting scarce managerial
talent to priority tasks; redesigning and streamlining systems commensurate
with resources; and adjusting institutional procedures.
43.       In Kenya, responsibilities for agricultural policy making, the
administration of agricultural programs and projects, and the provision of
services to the agricultural sector are shared among numerous
institutions. The chief technical ministry is MALD, which has a
particularly critical role in providing basic agricultural services
(research, extension and veterinary services), in implementing development
projects, and in contributing to agricultural policy making. Performance
in many areas has deteriorated over the pact five years: MALD attempts to
manage a large and unwieldy project portfolio, with many overlapping and
competing projects, exacerbated by excessive staffing at lower levels,
diversion of public resources from project implementation to salaries, weak
management, and inadequately trained staff. This has limited absorptive
capacity for new investment, particularly external aid, and has detracted
from the efficiency of existing investment. The Government has recognized
these problems in MALD. Major improvements have begun in the extension
system under the IDA-financed National Extension Project, and the
Government is reviewing with major donors a comprehensive national research
program to arrest the decline in the research system. Sector management,
budgeting and policy analysis have begun to be improved under the
Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1277-KE) (para. 53).
44.       The two central institutions  the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
Office of the President (OP), play an important role in agricultural policy
making, most notably in the areas of pricing, marketing, and inputs
policy. The Ministry of Planning and National Development (MPND) is
responsible for economic planning, including preparation of the country's
five-year plans, and is closely linked to MALD's Department of Development
Planning (DPD). MPND also participates in sectoral policy making (Annual
Price Review, budgeting, input regulation, etc.). The Kenya Rangeland
Ecological Monitoring Unit, under MPND, provides data for decision making
on resource issues. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(MENR) contains the Forestry Department, responsible for the management and
protection of Kenya's gazetted forest areas.
45.       In addition to MALD, public intervention in agricultural
development is effected through many other institutions. There are over 40
agricultural statutory boards, and 70 commercial concerns with Government
investment, all with an important and growing impact both on the sector and
on the public purse. These institutions are involved in the gamut of
operations including regional development, production, marketing, input
supply, crop regulation, advisory services, credit and research. Many of
the major agricultural parastatals, including the National Cereals and
Produce Board (NCPB), the Kenya Meat Commission (KMC), CLSMB and the
Nationral Irrigation Board (NIB), are routinely listed among the main
problem parastatals in the economy, and many are afflicted by chronic
debt. Fiscal control has been weak in many instances, and parastatals are



- 14 -
often asked to undertake public services without compensation. These two
factors have led to strains on the Government budget. Yet oversight of
parastatals by the relevant technical ministries (MOF and MALD) has been
inadequate and parastatals' financial requests and loan guarantees have not
been routinely or thoroughly examined. With few exceptions, the
agricultural parastatals suffer from problems of undercapitalization,
conflicts of interest between their commercial goals and public
responsibilities, outdated statutes, unclear sector development strategies,
weak financial management and accounting procedures, ineffective
supervision, unwieldly organizational structures, and poor personnel
policies.
46.       Cooperatives are the major marketing and input supply channels
for coffee and cotton producers, and may play a larger role in grain
marketing and input supply in the future with the formation of the Kenya
Grain Growers Cooperative Union (KGGCU). Although considered as private
sector institutions, cooperatives are regulated by the Cooperatives Act and
supervised closely by the Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD).
Despite their destined role in the rural sector, cooperatives have shown
disappointing performance, and the majority are afflicted by weak
management, political interference and lack of financial and accounting
controls. The Bank has been closely involved in cooperative issues through
several projects, notably in the coffee and cotton subsectors and under the
First and Second Integrated Agriculture Development Projects (IADP I & II -
Lu. 1303/Cr. 650-KE and Cr. 959-KE), the Smallholder Coffee Improvement
Project (SCIP - Cr. 914-KE) and the Cotton Processing and Marketing Project
(Cr. 1237-KE). A pilot cooperative sector management project to address
these problems will begin in FY87.
Government's Development Strategy
47.       In addition to the recently issued Fifth Development Plan, which
covers the period 1984-1988 and contains the thrust of Kenya's agricultural
development policy, the Government has recently issued an important
economic sessional paper (Sessional Paper No. I of 1986, 'Economic
Management for Renewed Growth"). This paper presents a bold strategy for
growth over the long term, and encompasses the major planks of the
Government's agricultural sector adjustment program. The Sessional Paper,
while further supporting the broad objectives of balanced food
self-sufficiencv and export production outlined in an earlier Food Po'icy
Paper (Sessional Paper No.4 of 1981), places agricultural growth and rural
prosperity at the heart of the strategy to rekindle economic growth and
create new jobs. It proposes three broad strategies: (i) intensification
of production for key food commodities; (ii) revitalization of research;
and (iii) a limited expansion in area and intensification of production of
high value crops (coffee, tea and horticulture) for both export and local
consumption. The underlying action measures contained in the Sessional
Paper are consistent with those of the sector adjustment program, namely:
increased input use; maintenance of price incentives; budget
rationalization; improvement of marketing services; and credit policy.



- 15 -
Training
48.       There is a great need for management and financial training in
the sector, particularly as weak administration and financial management
are recurrent problems throughout sectoral institutions. Kenya has a
substantial network of agricultural training institutions, but these have
largely concentrated on technical training (the Bank has been a major
supporter of these institutions through the Fourth and Fifth Education
Projects), and little m,anagement training has been available for
agricultural sector staff. Responsibility for technical training lies with
MALD, while responsibility for training administrative staff and managers
rests with the Directorate of Personnel Management (DPM), the centra
personnel unit located in the Office of the President. DPM oversees
training programs conducted by four Government training institutions; of
these, only one, the Kenya Institute of Administration (KIA), caters to mid
and upper level managers. KIA offers courses in management development,
public administration, project development and management, and accounting.
KIA's resources are strained and capacity is severely limited; at the most,
it can offer MALD (a ministry of over 30,000 staff) only one place per
course each year. Management trairing courses for technical officers, who
often supervise thirty to sixty staff, are almost non-existant. In the
past two years, the Government Training Institute (GTI) at Mombasa has
sought to fill the vacuum of management training in Kenya in a limited way,
with several innovative courses for local and district staff.
Bank Strategy and Experience in the Sector
49.       The Bank's strategy for assisting Kenya's agricultural
development coincides almost exactly with Government objectives, as
described in the Plan and other policy documents. It is growth oriented,
with a primary emphasis on intensification of production, particularly
smallholder production, which offers much untapped potential and meets
complementary goals of income distribution, employment and foreign exchange
generation. Despite a strong verbal support for smallholder development,
actual services and investments still tend to favor larger farmers because
of lingering biases and intertia in effecting shifts in new directions.
The Bank's operational program is geared to address major constraints and
to stimulate growth, through actions to improve basic farmer services
(especially extension, research, input supply, marketing and credit), to
address key physical resource management issues (forestry and
conservation), support better policy planning and above all,
implementation, and to assist in restructuring public investments and in
strengthening management of services, training for agricultural staff, and
better aid coordination.
50.       The Bank has had a long and extensive involvement in Kenya's
agricultural sector. To date, we have financed 30 projects in agriculture,
forestry and fisheries. Investments have been spread across all key
subsectors, with an emphasis on smallholders: export crops (coffee and
tea); industrial crops and agro-industry (sugar and cotton); foodcrops and
rural development (the Integrated Agricultural Development Program or
IADP); large and smallscale irrigation; semi-arid lands development;



- 16 -
forestry; fisheries; livestock; extension; credit; and technical
assistance. Our present portfolio of ten on-going projects reflects
substantial pruning of investments and redirection of efforts towards
strategic priorities, especially improvements in farmer services. Future
project lending will directly complement the Government's sector adjustment
program, providing integrated support for longer term institution building
and development of services and subsectors. Our pipeline includes project
proposals in the areas of forestry, cooperative management, semi-arid
land developments, research, extension, credit, export crops, and
smallscale irrigation.
51.       The extensive practical operational experience gained through
project implementation has been complemented by considerable sector work,
both formal and informal, undertaken over the last five years. In addition
to the recent Agricultural Sector Report, studies have been done on
agricultural inputs, credit, maize marketing and pricing, incentives,
irrigation, land issues, the grain sector, cooperatives, the public
investment program, resource allocation, private sector investment, and
nongovernmental organizations. Studies are planned or are already
beginning on the coffee subsector and forestry; these studies will provide
the basis for a continuation of lending in these important subsectors,
including further elaboration of policy reforms.
52.       A recent group of project completion reports (PCRs) and Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) has emphasized many lessons for Bank
involvement in Kenya's agricultural sector. These include the importance
of project design, limits to institutional and management capacity, and the
need to recognize the impact of policy issues such as pricing, marketing
arrangements and conflicting donor demands. These observations are also
confirmed by our supervision of the ongoing portfolio. A concerted effort
has been made to reflect the lessons learned from these projects in
supervision, project preparation and appraisal work, and ia support for
institutional development through the ongoing portfolio. The proposed
Project is designed to address many of these problems in key public sector
institutions, in conjunction with the proposed Agriculture Sector
Operation.
First Phase Project
53.       In 1982, the Government launched the Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project (ATAP-Cr. 1277-KE), with the objectives of strengthening
management and budgeting in MALD, and improving policy formulation in the
areas of grain marketing and land use. ATAP supported the Government's
structural adjustment program (SAL II) by providing support for technical
assistance, training and reform programs in these areas. ATAP was approved
in July 1982; the Credit's closing date has been extended by one year to
November 30, 1986 to allow overlap with the proposed second phase Project.
ATAP has three principal components:
(a)    technical assistance, microprocessors, training and support for
MALD to improve policy analysis, management and budgeting;



- 17 -
(b)    studies and technical assistance to review and reform grain
marketing policies; and
(c)    assistance to the Kenya RangeLand Ecological Monitoring Unit
(KREMU) and other groups to improve land use planning.
Project implementation has been excellent overall. Under ATAP, MALD
organized a Budget Task Force, which has become a successful vehicle for
institutional change. Improvements have been made in financial management,
in the quality of the public investment program, in budgeting and financial
procedures, and in management systems. MALD launched an innovative program
to introduce microcomputers for financial management, budgeting, management
information systems, and economic and policy analysis. This effort
contributed to decisions to introduce microprocessors in other Government
ministries. The project has also provided technical assistance for
strengthening policy analysis (major areas have been pricing, grain
marketing, sugar, and the Fifth Development Plan), and project
preparation. Support is provided to KREMU to carry out a land use mapping
exercise. Finally, ATAP has supported a wide range of economic, financial
and management training. Because of the long term nature of these
institution building efforts, many of these programs need to be expanded
and Institutionalized. The Government has requested the second phase
project to build on successful programs and expand these to a wider range
of institutions involved in agriculture, including parastatals 1/.
Technical Assistance
54.       Technical assistance to agricultural and related institutions has
been provided by many different donors; the proliferation and coordination
of technical assistance, especially in MALD, is an important problem.
Moveover, over the past year, the Government has acted to reduce the
numbers of technical experts and to exercise greater control over
indiscriminate use of expatriate technical assistance. Presently, there
are 30 experts in HALD, supported by five bilateral donors and the
Technical Assistance Pool. TAP began in 1975 as a means of coordinating
donor resources for tecJhnical assistance in MALD and MPND, with the
objectives of improving policy planning and project analysis in the
agricultural sector. Six donors contributed to the first TAP (UNDP, USAID,
CIDA, SIDA, West Germany and the Netherlands). The pooling arrangement
facilitated planning of training and institution building through one
agency; coordinated recruitment and training to meet targeted needs;
a--oided duplication of technical assistance skills; and removed technical
assistance from bilateral interests and replaced it with a program defined
jointly by the Government and the donors. In 1981, TAP was extended for a
second five-year phase; donors 'lncluded SIDA, CIDA, USAID, UNDY and IDA
(through ATAP). Major accomplishments have included providing technical
assistance (47 staff years), training (33 staff years), policy and project
analysis, introduction of microprocessors and management and budget
reform. But TAP II has several shortcomings (para. 63). The Goverment
has requested a third and final phase of TAP to consolidate the significant
gains made under TAP II, to increase training and institution building
1/ The name of the second phase Project was changed to the Agricultural
Sector Management Project at the request of Government, due to
increasing sensitivity on use of technical assistance in Kenya, and to
better reflect the fact that the Project also provides training and
logistical support.



- 18 -
activities, to expand technical assistance to new institutions, and to
continue implementation of administrative and budgetary reforms.
Reflecting gains in institution building, TAP III would reduce the number
of experts in the Development Planning Division (DPD) from six to three,
and would continue support for financial, computer and management experts
in MALD, MOF and NCPB. This represents a continuation of the trend begun
under TAP II to reorient advisory services towards critical financial and
management problems in key agricultural institutions. Government intends
to phase out several experts after two years, and all by the end of the
project period. Support for the TAP would be one component of the proposed
project (para. 58).
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Background
55.       The Project was prepared by the World Bank, in close consultation
with the participating institutions. A preparation mission visited Kenya
in February 1985, and produced a preparation report in April 1985. The
appraisal mission was in the field in June 1985, and a post appraisal
mission went to Kenya in October/November 1985, to coordinate with the
preparation of a proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit.
Negotiations were held in Paris, during April/May 1986; the Government's
delegation was led by Mr. J. Kamunge, Permanent Secretary, MALD. A Credit
and Project Summary appear at the beginning of this report; a supplementary
project data sheet is attached as Annex III; and cost tables are attached
as Annex V. No staff appraisal report was prepared for the Project; a
detailed implementation volume was prepared for the Government and is
available on request.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
56.       Kenya's economy is dependent upon the agricultural sector for
foreign exchange, food, industrial raw materials, and employment for most
of the nation's people. Unless the agricultural growth rate meets or
exceeds the population growth rate, per capita incomes will stagnate, as
there is limited scope for rapid industrial growth in the next decade. But
problems in the area of agricultural sector management, institutions, and
policy analysis and formulation have constrained agricultural growth and
development. The Government is addressing central policy issues in its
agricultural sector adjustment program, which IDA proposes to support
through an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit (para. 41); the Project
would be a critical complement to this program. In addition, the Project
would strengthen major sector institutions. Implementation of policies and
programs has been hampered by shortages of management skills and
institutional capacity, which have directly affected the quality and
direction of key public services to the agricultural sector (extension,
research and credit) and the implementation of development projects. The
Project would improve management and budget systems, improve the quality
and management of the investment portfolio, and assist in addressing
sectoral policy issues. More specifically, as institutional and policy
issues currently adversely affect IDA's portfolio in Kenya, the Project



- 19 -
would assist in resolving these constraints, improving the investment
program and increasing absorptive capacity for additional external
assistance. The Project is also the second phase to the successful ATAP
supported by IDA (para. 53). Because of IDA's extensive involvement in
these areas, it is recommended that IDA continue its support.
Project Objectives and Description
57.       The main objective of the Project would be to strengthen major
agricultural institutions in the public sector through improving their
capacity to manage resources (financial, human and physical), implement
programs and projects, and make and implement agricultural policy. The
Project would complement the proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
by providing technical assistance and support for reform programs in the
areas of budget rationalization, management improvement, sector policy
(including pricing) and parastatals. Programs initiated under the first
phase would be expanded and new initiatives introduced, primarily in the
areas of parastatals, resoarce data management and training. The Project
would be implemented over five years, beginning in July 1986.
Participating institutions would include the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock Development (MALD), Finance (MOF), and Planning and National
Development (MPND); the Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU);
the Inspectorate of Statutory Boards (ISB); and several agricultural
parastatals, in particular the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB),
and the National Irrigation Board (NIB).
5B.       Project components would include:
(a)    technical assistance and support to MALD, provided through the
Technical Assistance Pool (TAP), to improve management and budgeting, to
continue the Budget Task Force, to strengthen policy and project analysis,
to monitor the sector adjustment program, and to continue the
microprocessor program;
(b)    technical assistance and support for the Government's Budget
Rationalization Program in the MOF;
(c)    improvement of agricultural sector policy making and planning in
MPND;
(d)    assistan_e to selected agricultural parastatals (including NIB)
and Government parastatal oversight institutions to implement reform
programs and to address management and financial problems;
(e)    support for the NCPB to upgrade its computing facilities,
strengthen its financial and stock management system and improve food
security planning;
(f)    suyport for technical assistance to KREMU to strengthen its
abiiity to provide good quality, timely data on resources for planning and
decision making; and



- 20 -
(g)    training in the areas of economics, management, finance,
accounting, computers, and technical areas.
Detailed Features: Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
59.       The Project would support continuing activities of the first
phase project in the areas of budgeting and financial management;
microprocessors; management and information systems; and policy and project
analysis. First, the project would assist MALD to implement the budget
rationalization component of the Government's Agriculture Sector Adjustment
Program. This would encompass both: (i) improving the quality of the
public investment and expenditure programs, through reducing subsidies,
parastatal losses and personnel costs, weeding non-priority projects, and
increasing productive investments in high priority services and projects;
and (ii) streamlining the budget process itself, making it simpler, more
flexible, and better adapted to MALD's needs and capabilities. Specific
activities include undertaking budget and project analysis as a basis for
project rationalization; analysis and recommendations on key budget issues
(parastatals, training, irrigation, grain marketing and sugar investments);
grouping projects into national programs to improve aid coordination;
strengthening the Forward Budget process as a planning tool; reviewing
levels of user charges; and analyzing new budget problems and progress on
implementation.  The successful Budget Task Force would be continued, and
would provide the focus for the implementation of the budget
rationalization program, including monitoring. MALD has introdueed changes
in financial management and information systems and procedures, and would
continue efforts to improve these. Under the Project, the focus would be
on introducing simplified accounting systems and procedures, improving
mechanisms for revenue collection, speeding up donor reimbursement claims
and monitoring financial information. The Credit would finance a Budget
and Financial Management Expert to assist MALD in these activities; budget
analysis would also be supported by the Development Planning Division. The
role of technical assistance would be to provide guidance and on-the-job
training; it is expected that actual studies and analysis would largely be
carried out by MALD staff. An extensive program of in-service, local and
overseas training (para. 71) would assist in building staff capabilities.
60.       Under the first phase, programs to support improved management
were concentrated in three areas: analysis of management issues, improved
management information systems, and training. Several new management
information systems have been introduced: a Project Management System
(PMS), incorporating key data on all 170 of MALD's development projects; a
vehicle monitoring system; and a monthly financial review and expenditure
monitoring. The Project would focus initially on adjusting these
management systems to take into account experience to date and developing
new systems in key areas (assets, personnel and donor reimbursements) to
provide managers with timely information. It would also continue to
analyze management issues and problems, in particular personnel costs and
policies, and develop programs to address these. Management training would
be significantly expanded. A Managemeut Expert would be provided; the
expert would assist in identifying and analyzing management issues,
developing management systems, and training (para. 71).



- 21 -
61.       MALD has launched an innovative microprocessor program.
Microprocessors are currently used for budgeting, expenditure monitoring,
management information systems, and the program is entirely run by MALD
staff trained under ATAP. The Project would provide additional
microprocessors, to support new management systems, to allow extra capacity
for training and to replace existing machines as needed. In-house training
at several levels (clerical, technical staff and managers) would be
continued.
62.       Parastatals take up over half the Ministry's development budget,
yet MALD's capacity to supervise parastatals and oversee investment
programs is limited. Three measures would improve MALD's performance: (i)
formally including parastatals in the budget proces'; (ii) better planning
and monitoring of parastatal investments; and (iii) improved management
information on parastatal problems and issues. MOF, through the Budget
Rationalization Program, has begun to incorporate parastatals into the
budget process, although it is now refining procedures. MALD will begin to
inciude the major agricultural parastatals investment program in its
budget, beginning in FY87. AALD would also work closely with MOF and the
parastatal oversight institutions to improve parastatal reporting formats
(paras. 67 and 68). The Ministry's capacity to analyze sectoral issues
linked to parastatal problems (such as sugar, milk processing and grain
marketing) would also be strengthened through support to the Development
Planning Division (DPD) and through staff training. Analysis of specific
issues would be decided on an annual basis on the basis of priority needs,
and agreed with the Bank through the work planning process (para. 75).
63.       Policy and Project Analysis.  DPD has been involved in a ten-year
effort to strengtnen poticy ana project analysis with the support of the
TAP (para. 54). Since 1982, IDA has supported the .TAP through the first
phase project. TAP's accomplishments in DPD include training economists;
strengthening the Annual Price Review process; contributing to 'mportant
policy papers; preparation of projects and an agricultural strategy; and
assistance on analysis of parastatal issues. However, some problems remain
in the DPD: senior staff are still lacking, incentives for retaining
trained economists are limited, more and better participation by Kenyan
officers is essential, and more attention to economic issues and policy
studies is required. Project objectives would be to further build up staff
strength in DPD, continue analysis of issues, refine the methodology of the
Price Review, develop better linkages with otlher departments of MALD, and
improve project analysis. TAP would provide three economists to work with
DPD staff on improvements to commodity, price and food security analysis;
food security; review of longer-term sectoral trends and their policy
implications (for example, population and land shortages); preparation of
an annual strategy statement and review for the budget; identification of
new investments; analysis of MAlD's investment portfolio; and project
preparation, appraisal and evaluation. Technical assistance in DPD would
explicitly support implementation of tb-e Agriculture Sector Adjustment
Credit through methodological improvements in the price review; monitoring
of implementation of the sector adjustment program; preparation of the
project completion report; and design of a second sector operation. Rather
than carry out an agenda of studies themselves, the economists would



- 22 -
provide adivsory support to DPD staff, a more effective means of
institution building. Specific studies and work programs would be
determined and agreed through the annual work plan process (para. 75).
Funds for short-term consultants would be provided to supplement DPD staff
and experts to carry out studies as necessary. Financing would also be
provided for logistics, two vans for field visits and surveys, minor
equipment and training. Training would be an important component of the
institution building program within DPD. On-the-job training by experts
(for example, in the Price Review and project analysis), monthly seminars,
a biannual economics techniques course and policy seminars would be
organized. A major training program for advanced degree training
(primarily masters level) in economics would be provided. DPD staff would
also benefit from short-term local and overseas courses in selected areas
(economics, project analysis and microcomputers).
Ministries of Finance (HOF), and Planning and National Development (MPND)
64.       MOF has initiated a major program to rationalize the national
budget, address critical budget issues of parastatal subsidies and
personnel costs, and streamline the resource allocation process (para.
17). Objectives include redirecting public expenditures toward high
priority activities, cutting down number of projects, and assuring adequate
funds for operation a-d maintenance. A series of Treasury circulars,
outlining initials steps for each ministry to take to implement the
program, has recently been issued. Because of the extensive work done to
date on budgeting in MALD, it is Government's intention to use MALD as a
model case for other Ministries; implementation of budget rationalization
in the agricultural sector also is a major component of the Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Credit. A Budget Rationalization Task Force has been
established in MOF to oversee the program; terms of reference include
review of the budget process, recommendation of systemic improvements,
establishing expenditure priorities, rationalization of public
expenditures, improving the coordination of externally funded projects,
improving budget and financial information systems, assessing user charge
levels, and integrating parastatals into the budget process. Members
include key senior staff in the Treasury and MPND. IDA has supported
technical assistarce for this program under the first phase project. The
second phase would continue to provide support for the Task Force,
including a Senior Budget Expert, logistical support for Task Force
meetings and workshops, and training on budgeting and finance for MOF staff
and for key financial staff from other operational ministries. The Project
would also provide one economic expert administered under the TAP, in MPND,
to advise on macroeconomic policy and longer term economic issues, as an
input into development planning and economic policy making. In particular,
the economist would focus on critical issues of population, land use,
urbanization, and food security; these long term issues will have an
important impact on agricultural sector growth and strategy.
Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU)
65.       Accurate and timely data on natural resources is becoming
increasingly important for policy formulation and development planning in
Kenya, especially given critical land constraints. KREMU, a unit located



- 23 -
in HPND, specializes in analyzing natural resource data through Landeat
imagery, aerial surveys, and ground data collection. Experience with KREMU
under the first phase project, which provided limited support for land use
studies, has been very good. The Project would provide broader
institutional support to strengthen KREMU's capability to: (i) collect,
analyze and interpret data for land use and natural resource management,
and in so doing help build a coherent overall natural resource data program
for Kenya; (ii) produce timely and effective data; and (iii) assist
managers to use this information.
66.       ATAP financed the purchase of a powerful computerized Geographic
Information System (GIS); a major focus of the Project would be introducing
this system into KREMU's activities and ensuring it is used well. When
fully operational, the GIS is expected to give KREMU considerable
capabilities to store, analyze, integrate and display complex
geographically-based data on natural resources. The Project would assist
with planning the use of the GIS, staffing, training, supplies, technical
assistance, and development of national and district level data bases.
Data collection, analysis and presentation (in particular, KREKU
publications) would be improved. Short-term consultants in a range of
technical fields would provide assistance as needed. The critical aerial
services section would be built up through provision of two specialized
turbocharged planes for aerial survey work; technical assistance (pilots);
recruitment and training of Kenyan pilots; and support for maintenance and
operating costs. Replacement of the planes is necessary, due both to the
age of the present planes and to KREMU's special requirements for low
altitude, precision flying. The Project would provide vehicles to replace
KREMU's aged fleet, and various items of equipment and materials for
KRENU's publications and cartography sections, herbarium, laboratory and
library. Significant attention would be paid to improving KREMU's
organization, wort. planning and management of individual projects. KREMU
would prepare an annual work plan and training program; IDA agreement with
this program would be a condition of disbursement for this component.
Finally, with Project assistance, KREMIU would expand its strong staff
training program; local, in-house and overseas training would be provided
to staff on the GIS, technical fields (data analysis, cartography,
graphics, ecological field research methods, computer use and remote
sensing) and management.
Parastatals
67.       Parastatal performance and management particularly in the
agricultural sector have long been issues of concern to the Government.
Although direct action on parastatal reform has been limited to assessment
of general problems and ad hoc rescue operations for financially troubled
parastatals, reform is now moving into an active phase, and forms a major
component of the Government's Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program (para.
41). The central parastal oversight institutions are responsible for
generic parastal issues and investment monitoring; MALD's parastatals'
Division, more limited in staff, focuses mainly on problem-solving for
agricultural parastals in trouble, and in the future, will also focus on
monitoring parastatal investments for MALD's budget. The Project would



- 24 -
provide support both to the two central parastatal oversight institutions
(the Inspectorate of Statutory Boards (ISB) in the Office of the President,
and the Investments Division in MOF) and to MALD's Parastatals Division
(para. 62) to strengthen their ability to monitor performance and to
address policy issues.
68.       The major function of the ISB, which is the technical arm of the
high-level Parastatal Advisory Committee, is to provide assistance to
problem narastatals. The Project would enhance ISB's capacity to collect
information on overall parastal performance (with a focus on management
issues), improve its professional capability to review problem parastatals,
and strengthen its ability to provide advice on management problems. One
expert, a specialist in corporate planning and organization to develop a
parastatal data bank and a method of performance evaluation, would be
funded for two years. The Investment Division in MOF is primarily
concerned with monitoring parastatal investments and financial performance
as a basis for central Governemnt investment and budgeting decisions. The
Project would support the Investments Division to fulfil this mandate. Key
activities would be development of a system for evaluating parastatal
investment proposals, integration of parastatals into the national budget,
testing contract plans, and financial monitoring systems. A senior expert
and short-term conaultants would assist in these tasks. Training would be
provided in parastatal evaluation, management and financial analysis,
CPA-level training and study tours to review experiences of other countries
with parastatal monitoring.
69.       As ISB and the Investments Division strengthen their ability to
assist and supervise parastatals, the Project would also assist several
problem agricultural troubled sector parastatals to prepare refinancing
plans, implement improved financial systems, and strengthen management.
A program has already been developed for the National Irrigation Board
(NIB). NIB, which manages all of Kenya's largescale irrigation schemes
except Bura, has requested support for overhauling its accounting system,
upgrading staff skills, and introducing computerized data processing both
at the headquarters and at one major irrigation scheme. Design and
implementation of the system would be carried out by a task force of NIB
staff and local consultants.
70.       A detailed assistance program has also been developed for NCPB,
the parastatal responsible for grain marketing and food security. Under
SAL II and ATAP, an extensive study of NCPB's operations was carried out
and recommendations made to improve ad.ministration and financial
management. NCPB began implementing many of these recommendations under
ATAP, which provided support for establishing a management information
system to give the Board timely information for financial and stock
management. This is critical for the financial restructuring of NCPB under
the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit. The Project would provide
computers, microprocessors and related equipment; technical assistance in
the form of a full-time computer systems expert and short term consultants;
and training. The Project would also strengthen NCPB's Forward Planning
Unit to develop practical food security strategies to cope with surplus and
deficit situations. Establishment of these improved information systems



- 25 -
will assist NCPB in improving cost control and efficiency, and are
consistent with the longer term goal of developing NCPB into a buyer and
seller of last resort. Training would be provided in the areas of computer
systems, microprocessors, financial management, accounting, supervisory
skills, inventory control, economics, and stock management.
Training
71.      Training is a critical part of institution building programs under
the project, and is a major Project component (US$4.3 million). Detailed
training plans, based on an assessment of training needs, have been
designed for six participating institutions: MALD, MOF, KREMU, NCPB, NIB
and ISB. The Project would provide training in a wide range of skills;
these are outlined by institution above. The Project emphasizes in-house
training, workshops, use of local and regional training institutions, and
involvement of experts and local consultants. Overseas training would
include both degree training and short term courses in a wide range of
fields. A Training Coordinator appointed by MALD would coordinate the
training program for that Ministry. Various institutions would be
responsible for implementing their own training programs, and would design
annual training plans as part of the work planning process (para. 75). For
MALD, MOF and NCPB, training would be administered under the TAP contract,
as there is a large external training program and as TAP aidvisors would be
closely involved in identifying in-house training needs. A mid-term
assessment of the training program would be carried out jointly by the
Government and the Association to review progress in meeting training
goals, and to make adjustments as necessary.
Program Implementation
72.       Organization and Management.  The Project is an umbrella
operation, combining free-standing reform programs in several different
institutions; thus coordination among institutions is not necessary.
A Project Coordinating Committee would provide a forum for exchange of
information, and ensure that project accouncs are assembled (para. 74).
MALD's Project Coordinator would serve as the _ecretary to this committee,
which would be headed by the Permanent Secretary/MALD and include directors
and Project managers from participating institutions. Within MALD, a
senior administrative official (under ATAP, this has been the Deputy
Secretary/Finance) would be appointed Project Coordinator, to provide a
focus for MALD Project activities and guidance on Project issues. Day to
day implementation of Project activities would be the responsibility of
department and section heads in MALD, supplemented by experts, and guided
by the Annual Work Plan (para. 75). A working level Project Steering
Committee in MALD would bring these key staff together periodically to
handle Project issues and monitor performance. Administration of the
training component would be handled by MALD's Training Committee, assisted
by a full time training coordinator to arrange local training courses, and
by the TAP Senior Advisor to assist in arranging overseas training. Within
MOF, the Director of Budget Supply would oversee implementation of the
Budget Rationalization Program, and the Director of the Investment Division
would manage technical assistance and training programs in that unit.



- 26 -
KREMU, NCPB, NIB and ISB have directors who would be responsible for
implementation of Project activities in their respective agencies.
73.       A summary of technical assistance required is included as Annex
IV. Technical assistance would be administered both through the TAP and
through free-standing technical assistance contracts. Technical experts
for MALD, MOF, MPND and NCPB would be pooled under one contract (TAP) and
managed by one administering agency, which will ease management burdens for
the Government. The ISB, MOF's Investments Division and KREMU, which
require more specialized assistance and fewer experts, would arrange
free-standing technical assistance contracts directly. Terms of reference
for experts are included in the Implementation Volume. In general,
experts are expected to support defined institution building programs
rather than merely carry out studies. Numbers of experts would be
gradually reduced over the life of the Project. The TAP would also
administer, under the same contract, funds for overseas and local training,
two vans, and some equipment (microprocessors and training equipment) for
participating institutions. TAP would be cofinanced by other donors
(para. 77). A mid-term review of TAP would take place between Government,
IDA and the other donors after the first two and one-half years of the
project. This review would evaluate TAP III, and recommend adjustments as
necessary, including changes or reductions in technical assistance for the
rest of the Project period.
74.       Accounts and Audits. ATAP experienced problems in assembling
project accounts, as have other agricultural projects in Kenya, because the
project accounting system did not mesh with the Government accounting
system. To overcome this problem, the Project will be identified as a
separate budget sub-head, and Project accounts can then be produced through
the existing Government accounting system, which contains adequate controls
and produces timely reports. Use of Government accounts as Project
accounts has been tested under the National Extension Project, where it is
operating satisfactorily. Accountants in each institution would submit
monthly accounts oa the basis of the Government ledger to the Project
Coordinator, who would be responsible for assembling one set of Project
accounts. Accountants would also keep records of Project expenses and
reimbursement claims. The Project Coordinator would submit quarterly and
annual accounts to the Association. Statements of expenditure (SOEs),
which would be supported by the relevant ledger accounts, would be
submitted for operating costs.
75.       Annual Work Plans and Budgets.  One objective of the Project is
to improve work planning and budgeting in participating institutions, in
order to strengthen mangement, integrate technical assistance into
institutional activities, use advisors more effectively, and adapt project
activities aimed at overall institution building in response to changing
needs.  MALD, NCPB, KrXEMU, ISB, the Investments Division, and the Budget
Rationalization Committee would all prepare annual work plans before the
start of the budget cycle. Managers, advisors and supervisors would
establish priorities for the coming year, set objectives and define
outputs. These would be reviewed within the participating institutions and
would be given to IDA for review and commpnt by January of each year.



- 27 -
Accompanying these plans would be an annual training plan, outlining
courses to be held, numbers of staff to be trained, overseas training
scheduled, and possible nominees for courses.
Project Costs and Financing
76.       Total Project costs (including about US$1.8 million equivalent
for taxes and duties) are estimated at US$20.7 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$13.5 million or 65Z of total costs. Detailed cost
tables are included in Annex V. Import duties and sales taxes on goods and
services not eligible for exemption from customs plus taxes and duties on
fuel and other operating costs amount to US$1.8 million. Cost estimates
are based on November 1985 prices and adjusted for inflation. A physical
contingency of 10% was applied to vehicle and equipment purchases,
operating costs and training. Price contingencies were calculated on a
cumulative basis (local costs: 8% per year from 1586/87 to 1989/90 and 6.5%
in 1990/91; international costs: 7% in 1986/87 and 1987/88, 7.6Z in
1988/89, 7.65% in 1989/90, and 7.6% in 1990/91) of total project costs
expressed in US dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of the
post-appraisal mission. It is assumed that the Kenyan shilling will
maintain its relative value in terms of the US dollar over the life of the
project. The cost estimates expressed in Kenyan shillings are thus
notional and will depend on changes in the exchange rate over time.
77.       Financing.  The Government of Kenya would contribute US$3.0
million equivalent or about 14% of net project cost; in addition, the
Government would bear the cost of taxes and duties (US$1.8 million
equivalent), for a total contribution of US$4.8 million. IDA would
contribute US$11.5 million, or 56% of net project costs. Other donors, who
would cofinance the TAP contract, and would contribute as follows: CIDA
US$2.26 million (11%); UNDP US$1.6 million (8%); USAID US$0.3 million (1%)
and SIDA US$0.4 million (2%). The Government prefers the TAP to be
cofinanced to improve coordination of technical assistance, to benefit from
bilateral soft funds, and to reduce bilateral influence on individual
experts. Total external financing would cover about 77% of net Project
costs, including 100% of the foreign exchange cost and 30% of local costs.
Procurement and Disbursements
78.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.  The
amounts in parentheses indicate the portion to be financed by IDA.



- 28 -
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method                    Total
Project Element               ICB        LCB       Other       N.A.          Cost
Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles                   -           0.5        -         -               0.5
(0.1)      --         -              (0.1)
Planes and Related          1.5       -          --         -               1.5
Equipment                (0.9)     -           -          -              (0.9)
Other Equipment             0.5      -            0.2       -               0.7
(0.5)     -           (0.2)     --             (0.7)
Incremental Operating         -          -            2.1       0.9            3.0
Expenses                   -         -           (1.9)      -              (1.9)
Technical assistance          -          -          15.0       -              15.0
and Training               -          -           (7.9)     -              (7.9)
TOTAL                     2.0        0.5       17.3        0.9           20.7
(1.4)     (0.1)      (10.0)    ()              11.5)
Bidding packages for goods (vehicles, computers and equipment) would be
prepared on an annual basis, and those expected to exceed US$50,000 would
be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB). Procurement of
vehicles would be done over the life of the Project and is not expected to
exceed US$50,000 per year for participating agencies; procurement would
follow local competitive bidding (LCB) if contracts are under US$50,000.
The difference between the contract amount and amount financed by the
Association for vehicles and planes is due to high local taxes. Equipment
includes microprocessors, computer equipment and supplies, training
equipment and technical equipment for KREMU. One contract for computer
equipment for NCPB (US41.3 million) was signed under ATAP and would be
partially financed under the Project (US$0.5 million); ICB was used. Other
equipment would be procured in small lots by different agencies and ICB
procedures would not be justified for the small quantities involved.
Operating expenses include salaries (US$0.9 million), travel allowances,
vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance, and training supplies;
Government procurement procedures would be followed where applicable.
Consultants for training and technical assistance will be selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Most technical assistance and training
will be part of the TAP; the contract for administration of the TAP (valued
at US$8.5 million) would be awarded to the university which has
successfully managed the first two phases of TAP which is acceptable to the
Bank. Detailed terms of reference (TOR) for technical assistance are
contained in the Ilplementation Volume.  The draft contract for TAP was
reviewed at negotiations. TOR for short-term consultants would be agreed
during annual work program reviews (para. 75). Contracts for vehicles and
planes, and for equipment over US$50,000 each will be subject to prior Bank
review, which will cover 100% of the value of vehicles and less than 20% of
the value of equipment. Other contracts wili be subject to selective
post-award review.



- 29 -
79.       IDA would disburse against all project expenditures to be
financed from external sources. The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be
disbursed as follows:
Amount of the       Percentage of
Credit Allocated   Expenditures
(USS '000)        to be Financed
Category 1/
1. Equipment and Materials
for Parts D and F of the Project              560       100% of foreign
expenditures and
90Z of local
2. KREMU (Part C)
(a)  Vehicles and Equipment                     110       100% of foreign
expenditures and
17% of local
(b)  Planes and Related Equipment               920       100X of foreign
expenditures and
70% of local
'e) Consultant Services and
Associated Costs                       2,190       100%
Cd)  Operating Costs                            920       90%
(e)  Training                                   400       100%
3.  Consultant Services and Associated
for Parts E and F of the Project              710
4.  Technical Assistance Pool for
Parts A, B, and D of the Project            4,200       100%
5.  Training for Parts E and F of the Project        560      100%
6.  Operating Costs for Parts D, E and F of
the Project                                   400
7.  Unallocated                                      560
TOTAL         11,500
1/ Part A: MALD; B: MOF and MPND; C: KREMU; D: NCPB; E: ISB and F: NIB.



- 30 -
80.       The maintenance of foreign currency bank accounts is not
presently permissable for Government departments in Kenya. Consequently,
we are lnable to recommend a special account (revolving fund) in foreign
exchange for this Project. In order to limit the submission of
applications in small amounts, applications thresholds of US$20,000 for
reimbursement, for direct payment and agreement to reimburse, will be
established for the Project. Disbursements for incremental operating costs
and local training costs, other than those handled under the TAP contract,
would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs). Disbursement
categories have been designed to correspond to a group of accounts in the
Government ledger, in order that SOEs may be supported by the relevant
ledger accounts. Disbursements for expenditures under the TAP contract
(technical assistance, training, some vehicles and equipment for MALD, MOP,
MPND and NCPB) would be made against quarterly itemized bills.
Disbursements against all other items would be fully documented. Annual
disbursements for KREMU would be conditional upon approval of the relevant
work program and budget. The standard disbursement profile for technical
assistance projects in Eastern and Southern Africa is nine and one-half
years. However, disbursements from the Credit are expected to be over five
and one-half years, faster than the profile, as: (i) a large proportion of
the expenditures are for technical assistance and training under ongoing
programs which are scheduled to phase out after five years; (ii) procedures
for claiming disbursements for the Project rely on the Government's
established accounting system; and (iii) direct payment procedures will be
used for the TAP contract and equipment and vehicle purchases.
Benefits and Risks
81.       Recent analysis in the Agricultural Sector Report and elsewhere
emphasizes that management and financial constraints are the chief
impediments to improved project implementation, policy formulation and
delivery of critical agricultural services in the public sector. The major
benefit of this Project would be to ease these constraints, improving
institutional performance and the efficiency of public investment. Other
benefits include developing an effective institutional framework for
delivery of agricultural services and projects, improving allocation of
scarce resources, bolstering the ability of institutions to develop sound
agricultural policies, and training. The Project would also contribute to
policy analysis (irrigation, livestock services, and subsidies, among
others), linked to budget issues in the short term, but also important for
the design of future sector and project lending operations. The primary
beneficiaries would be farmers, especially smallholders, who are the main
clients of public agricultural sector institutions. Improved management,
streamlined budgeting, priority allocation of scarce resources and tigher
financial controls would benefit all the citizens of Kenya by making better
use of scarce resources. Finally, to the extent that Project activities
can remove critical bottlenecks and increase Kenya's absorptive capacity
for external aid, the entire economy would benefit.
82.       The risks related to the Project mainly concern the extent and
pace of reform programs, and the effective use of technical assistance.
Over the last four years, there has been growing commitment within



- 31 -
Government to the need for basic reforms in budgeting, management and
financial management in the agricultural sector, in part brought about by
Kenya's budget crisis, and in part by the activities of ATAP and TAP.
Government's commitment to reform in these areas is demonstrated by its
Budget Rationalization Program, by the Agriculture Sector Adjustment
Operation now being processed, and by the recent Economic Sessional Paper,
a blueprint for important economic reforms. Despite this, key sectoral
ministries remain weak; many problems will depend on slow steady progress,
rather than overnight improvement. Experience under ATAP has demonstrated
vividly, however, that involvement of Ministerial staff in analyzing
problems and proposing solutions (the Budget Task Force is the noteworthy
example) promotes greater commitment to change. Ineffective use
of technical assistance is also a risk; there has been the tendency in the
past to deploy experts on operational tasks and in response to short term
needs, rather than to build up work programs aimed at coaching and training
Kenyan staff. This risk will be mitigated through several means:
continuing to train a core of good Kenyan staff in the DPD, reduction in
numbers of experts in MALD, improved work planning, and expanded in-house
training programs.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
June 2, 1986



- 32-                                             ANNEX I
twa- SOCIA Inis
zO~~~gmwv  GOP  cus               m s   vmms IL
XLCSIITN7      L           AFRtCA       minis
b     jV?b 1 ESTIHAT            sum  or sDiaU        ARCA S. OWA*
a  (Tssam  s. n)
TnAL                    ;         Sn..        WZ.0       sm2..
AGRICULTURAL                       532.        39.1       41.5
G "  CAITA (n)                         .* .U.U                                 225.                    tU6lSA
tILocum  or OIL EIIVAATI          115.0       140.0      147.0              01.2                      31.3
PorLg10 -urm w nT sivmnu
POFULATION.NIU-TAE (TIOUSADS2   7903.0    11290.0    15902.0
0u5*  PopATico (I OC TOTAL)         7.4        10.2       17.1               20.1                     32.0
POPULATIoN P     O
POPULAnIO  IN us 2000 (MILL)                             35.3
STATION! POLAToN (MtLL)                                 120.0
POPULATION n1m.                                          2.:
POPULATION 03511!n
PRat so. M.                      13.0        19.4       32.4               33.2                     03.1
P  Sq. KM. SCRI. LAD            147.1       191.0       294.              112.0                   1324
POUATION AGE UTOCU  (Z)
0-14 US                         47.5        4b.3        51.7 ?.0                                  4*5
13-54 Ti                         49.5       43.3        45.3               30.5                     51.3
65 AND AIOM                       2.5         2.5        2.0                2.9                      2.7
POPULATusO cGOIR RATE (Z)
TOTAL                             3.1         3.6        6.0                24                       ;.
URBA                              5.3         6..        7.3                4.4                      3.1
ASu  31111 RATr (MP  TNOUS)        3U.0        33.4       54.7               *7.2                     47.0
CRUDEAN RATE (PER TiS)             19.2        13.0       12.0               11.0                     13.0
CuS RPUDUCTION RATE                 3.3         3.1        3.9                3.3                      3.2
-PaIL? PLANNIC
EPT. O ANL (1THO)                 ..         30.9       03.0 Ic
USU5 (Z or KaRRIWD WOW)           ..          5.014      S.0  -.t           3.3                      5.4
Dam o0 FOOD "M. PE  CAPITA
(;199-71-100)                      99.0       100.0       0.0               53.3                      13.9
PiR CAPIT SUPPLY 0F
CALORa   (1 OF ZOuIEtEMT)       107.0        9O.0       87.0              57.7                      96.3
P303E1S (CCRB WSA DAT)           74.0        *5.0       54.0               31.9                     53.4
Of 11ICN0 AIMAL AD PruS         2S.0        26.0       2.0A               18.7                     16.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) :ATR RATE         23.1        21.9       14.0              23.1                      10.6
LIFE ERhEC?. Al KUM  (TEAM)        44.0        51.7       57.u              47.0                     532.
INFAN tr rr. RATE CPr INU)        137.3       112.0       81.0              119.3                    105A
ACCESS TO SUE W1ATE (hOFP)
TOAL                              ..         15.0       26.0 lb           27.1                      *A.4
URBAN                             ,,        100.0       55.0 7W           63.5                     07.5
RURAL                             ..         2.0        15.o T            19.3                     33.3
ACCESS TO EXCUTAL DISPOSAL
(C 0f POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         30.0       30.0 lb           20.5 23.1
URS                               ..        25.0        39.0             60.4                      37.7
AL                                ..        43.0        19.07             20.3                     20.7
POPULATION PD. PYSICI           10320.0      7360.0 li  7390.0 /I        27901.7                   11791.?
POP. PER ISIIN  PCRSSN           2210.0 11.1i.oo7        30.0 7  5A       3305.4                   24359.
POP. PEA HOSPITAL 3CD
TOTAL                           760.0       750.0      620.0  a          1h2734                   931.1
UAM                               0.0         .2. 20A.            ,       t2U.2                    30".
IRRAL                             ..          ..       630.0            3292.3                    4371.9
AISSIONS   ROSPITAL  D              ..          ..         9.7  k             ..                     27.2
AVERACE SUZE OF USEWLA
TOTAL                             ..          *.7
Ull                               49 11      4.7
UJUAL                             .. U.7                 .
AVERAGE NO. Or PERSONSi3rJ
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URlA                              2.Sf        ....
SAL                               ..          ..
PEC11TAGE OP OWrLLINCS WINI ELCL.
TOrAL                             ..          ..
URAN                              ..
RRAL 



33 _                                           ANNEX I
Page 2
Itlfi- 500' M. tIHsumIA   SATAJ
lUSTr                     (ISI  Nfl? KTIIMTI) l
uciWTr         LM    1O  AMIICA           Him   li
1n0         197-Sh         S        SLTttalT 139  AFIUCA      3101  5b2N
196al        l~iIIAThlbh        lUVSS  bihilA         AttILCA 5. USW bAhI3
TOTL                     .          534.6       552.4       582.4
4fCULTUhAL                           53.7        5-1         *1.5
t_ Cflfl (on)                                     *- .3.5                                                  1ub4.4
(KnIwUI or OIL SlUtIVAlW)          118.0        140.0       147.0              42.1                      531.5
vamawz mumn& wa=nCe
POPULAU"N.NIU-yTU   (TWUS0As)    7903.0       1120.0    1902.0
01_    PoPLATIO  CZ OF OTsL)          7.4        10.2        17.1               2041                      32.0
POPUtAIO  IN Vt 2000 (HILL)                                  .5
STATIONAI  POPUlAIu   CHILL)                              120.0
POPULATII    fUN                                           2.1
POPULATILON 1st1?
PR SQ. US.                         13.4       19.&         32.4              33.2                      45.1
PM SQ. W. ICRt. LU                147.1      191.0        2".6               1112.                     124.8
POPoLATON Aw  MTUCUhSU (I)
0-14 T13                          47.5        4.3         51.7              44.a                       45.6
15-4 TE                           49.5        4.5         45.5               50.3                      51.5
45 S  ABE                           2.5         2.5         2.4                2.9                       2.7
POWULATITUGT 03061W 325)
TrsL                                3.1         3.6         4.0                2.d                       x.9
Yni                                 5.4         4.5         7.3               4.4                       5.1
cus mITt. MM (Pm 25US)              5U.0        53.4         54.7              47.2                      47.U
cu     or=  mat CP  IMOU)            19.2        15.0        12.0               17.8                      15.0
0901S SPhUCTIl am                    3.3         3.8         3.9               3.3                        3.Z
' rmHIx PLAIII
LeTOES. MaEIL  (13005)              ..         30.9        63.0 Ic
Zs C or wIni  sas)                 ..            4.0 Id     3.0   t           3.3                       :44
Iu   wF NO  MM. 53 CAtTA
C t19-71-100)                       ".0         1OO.0       U.8                $3.3                      32.9
PU CAPITA SHIMS OF
CstUS CZ or  _UUIsIT)             107.0      9.0         57.0               67.7                      so.s
P901E2S (GRAM PU OAT)             74.0        65.0         54.0              51.9                      55.4
01r 360 DNNAL  ND PULlS           23.0        24.0        24.0               15.7                      14.5
CRILD (AGS 1-4) t32 a3              25.1        21.9         14.0              23.1                      14.b
LIPn MM. Cr K1a   (nTh)             46.4        51.7         57.u              47.6                      52.u
t1153r MM. RAT (PCP  T300)         137.5       112.0        51.0              119.5                     10.5
aCCESs TO SAV WAE (10F)
TA                                  ..         15.0       24.0 lh            27.1                      &1.4
03343  ..  100.0      35.0  h            63.5                      67.5
IULA                               ..          2.u        15.0               19.3                      35.5
ACCESS tO ZXCUA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTSL                              ..         50.0        30.0 lh            2t.5                      Zb.b
03313                              ..         55.0        59.07W             85.4                      57.7
RUEA.                              ..         5.0        19.0 7i-           2U.8 aO.7
PONAlWPU P3TSICI                 10320.0      75O.0 A1  7390.0 /I           27901.7                   11791.7
POP.  IX IIShC P1g                2210.0 11     1480.0 7r    5so.o 7r;       3306.4                    2459.3
PM. m    oSPIAL -
TOTAL                            710.0       730.0       4zo.0 r<          1273.4                     951.1
034                               80.0 1        ..       420.0 7W           42.2                      315.5
NI3AL                              ..          ..        330.0 7r          3292.5                    4371.9
ADfISYSOuIS  u lOmTAL mD              ..         ..          9.7 /k             ..                       27.2
TOTAL                                          *.7
UlD                                 49 a       4.7
SA.L                               ..          4.7
AVPAM  0O. OF PERSOU/IOWI
n..^                               ........
143AM1.5 /1.f.l..
eta                                 ........
PEfui  OF O<ULLIN  6123 am
eta,..                                .            .                  ..
TTL                                .            ..                             ..



-34 _ANNEX I
.~~~~~~UUUO IGoaL N.Cl
_  e  d_^ -_-_ _ ~~~~~~Pae  
sepsblimum of lbha o eIbrml     ddilsm m.d semap  md by ilium esum a e.AuU  do daino Thdafm. ae.dmtmu   mAim o!W 
Tml    u    pup m_() dl sany  uV   of lb aaiu c_mmy _ d (2) a omey Mm* silk u.si Ma-w a_ap mort I.   amui,ry
.a.ua  _i. alb .tp~  e  b __ig  - ~odtia wdatm m_bsi mum. _r ui1_ hum  _. 'b..oy wh   my
AMA (lhousand sq.Irr)                                         Cmukad,    Rat (pw             buhofeive bths in the yar
Trd-Total surfaas -  comprimig lad am and inlad watr         per dwousand of midyiear popdato  1960.1970. and 1983 dta.
1960.1970 nd 1963 daUt                                       COm  Dead Re (w               N         of deat  in the year
.4gv' Eut   of a ltural areIn usui tmporpe d_u or  p  ad of id-year popuabtio; 1960 1970. ad 19  data
permanety for oMp  pas mk            end kihcn gardens or to  r6- _Jhpeai Da-Average numb. ofdauhtr a womn
lie fllow. 190,1970 ad 1912 da                                will bar i her inmal rproducie piod if she epmere
pr.entapspsec fertilty nos _ully ve-yaava endig
GNP PER CAUTA (LSO -GNP per capta *simAte at curmot           in 190. 197I        1923.
market prices calculate  by same com'... method asiP World             oaf       go -   nna (diunwk-Annual unum-
Do* Ades (1911-13 bss); 1913 dae.                             ber ofaepto ofbirt-control dems under ausic  of ntional
ENEWGY CONSUMPlON M  CAPITAamW *pp*et   ily prin3 pEpaU
_mum     of cmm   el pumzy eis (coal and Upi,                 F       P Uins (pmwin .flu-iud(inCesI-e penn-
petoeum. atural  s and hydro-. nucer and geohem   ec-         tap of mard wn. of child-beming eV who ae practicng or
trcly) in kiogam  of oi equialt per capkta 1960, 1970, an     whoe husbands ah practicing any foom of ctaception. Women
19 2                                                        ofchild-bearing ag ae genrally wome aged 1549. albough for
some counries conampie          as n_maund  for otber ag
POPULAIlON AND ViA  SMUTIK                                    POUPaM
Tud' 1P.p.   , fM-lYe (I W    *)--As of July 1; 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUT3rrlON
and 1963 da
I,ArzeJipdF.e m r hCe,*a (1969-71 - GO)--Index of per
Mle_e  _bpoWn (prei(_r .J suaf)--Ratzo of  b5a1 to tl       capita annul producti  of al food commodites. Product
pop-ulat    differet defitio  of urba arcs may albet compar-  exdudes anial feed ad med for agricultue. Foo commodities
ability of data aumog       1960. 1970, ad 15 data.                  p    y commodit i   g aepsuane itd of supr)
&Paledm AwJ&aimar                                             which are edibl  ad con  nUtes (eg. coffee and tea ar
apdatien y'    2rWONN-The projton of popwlation for 2000.    xclud    they compr  weras, root aops pule  oil seds.
made for each soonw    separtey. Sarng with informaton on     vegetables, frosts. nuts  agrne and sur beets. iveock and
totl poplaut  by a and sem fatility r. monrt   rat    d       Gvestock products. Agggpte production ofrer  country Is bned
intmentional migmation in the bae year 19S0. thes pam rs      on nabooal aveae producer prke weits; 1961-65. 1970. and
-er projcted at fve-year intvals on the bsi of geneld         1982 data.
asumptions uti the population becaI  e statisxoary.           Pr. CG       SW&,p OfCIC MS (Pu'eatW e   remn  -Co"nput-
Ssaonary popuhlxam-I one in  h age- and sex-spedfic mor-      ed from calor equivalent of anefood supplievailble in county
rahry raie bave not chdned over a log paiod, whe age-pecific  per capt per day. Avaiable spplies compn  domesuc produc-
fertility rates have simuaweousy remained at replcemt  leel   tion, impors kl  exports, an  changes in socL Net supplies
(nat rproductin rate -1). In sch a populaion, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed seds for us i agriculture quantitixs usd in
constant and equal to the death rate, the ag setcture is abo  food procesig and loss in ditibution. Requirements woe
constant and the growth rate is nz    The staionry populaton  esimatd  by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected charcerisio of  and healthb considering environmental temperatue body weights.
the popation in the yr 2000. and the rae of dedine of fertity  age and su  distribution of populaion. and alowing 10 penrmt for
rar to replacemet leveL                                      waste at household leveh 1961. 1970 and 1982 dataL
PJuliu M_mnnan-s the tedency for populatio  gowth to         hr c.pm sw    *fNudn (#re.pff Av~-P in eontknt or
continue beyond the time that rlacme-levd fertilty has been   per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, ev  after th  et rpoducton  te nha reuaied  as above. Requuimts for all countries eablished  by USDA
unity. The mome8ntum of a populatin in the yer t is measured as  provide for nimum alowances of 60 gm, of toa prin per
a ratio of the ultmate stationary popuation to the populaion in  day and 20 grams of animal ad pulse protem of which   grams
th yea:. given the assmpon th  fertiityem s at repla-        shou  be anmal proue  Thme sundards.a. lowertha those of
mev ked from year t onward. 1985 datiL                        75 Srim  of total protein and 23 grams of nimal protein as an
PapAotm 1esiy                                                average for the world, propoed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq m-M-year population per squre kiomtr (100 hec-        Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tue) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.               Per Cqap  Aural Sqpl.y Fro ARiWAiA Pas-Protemn supply
Per sqbsm. agruwburt lwxd-Coupued as abov for agriculturl    offood drived from anias and pules in grams per day; 196145.
lnd only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 dataL                         1970 and 1977 data.
P*afmie Age Suwr (pvc=a)-Cbildrn (0-14 yea). work-           CAi (qa 1 4) Dark Rate (per drra.d)-Number of deths of
is a  (15-64  years). and retid (65 ye rsand over) a pcnuge  cbi    aged 1-4 years per thousand chdren j the sam  age
of  d-year popWation; 1960, 1970. and 1963 da                group in a pv  year. For mota developing  nmtres data derived
Papdluthatis Grh Aare (pweuaO-Ea       ugrowth rates of      from lik tabls 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
tota mind-yer population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970W3.   HEALTH
Ibpeia    Gru  fAt    rM)-i            nualgoth rat          Lo Exprsc y at l._ (wu--Nuimber of years a newbomn
of rban poplation for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 19083 dat        ifant would ive if praing paer  of morality for al people



-35-                                            ANNEX I
t W"T
at do  me of of he brth wt tD stha    -   throuho t     l      A                  p                  jT l udm  _
1960, 1970 and 1903 daa                                        rod In prmary ad seoda  kwh did   by mimbern of
1     Mw ruRa_re (par ieman)-l umber orwia OM hoe              U -5 inba correpoodn lvel
before nrucl on- ya of ap pwr hoand le birt  In a *wa
yar, 1960 1970 and 1M daL                                              On:
Am aO SO  WOW (PROW                  e       ad.U      ad       hmw  Ca_ (pwer  m          pep   _iw-Passngr cmn codPr
mve-.Nunber of  -   (taL   e          r          wh omLble     pri  motor cans man     s tha eignt peamo; eaclWdes amb.
amm  to   f waer  pply         di treae  vzfr  waners or u an. hems and militw  vehis.
uinnea--ed but unootaminated wat  each as tat from pro ed pPI
bor dils springsad ma_ry wels)u pwounta  of tir            r. raio roadas  do gener l Pulc pr thou_and of   in.
dvi poplmiom  La an *he  -  a pubic fountan or s adpost    forrads    lcnsed  roveral  cuntrie d     on pears we
locatd aot mo_ th  200 mom   ent a home my be ,dm             crisu         radio mu     wasoin er e  data forw  W t gmrs may
-   -   witi rn.o.ah au  of dthome In rwl a                              o   du
reasonable    iwould imply that thahmowal or members of0       amo be comparable sinm mom countries abolihe licensmng
hotesebhold do _o have  m d a dipopoon  pat of th d            TV&edru, (re --                            u for broadeast
in fading toheamilys warner    L                               to ittin pubic pw tmedpopulatio cl  dude Unhimasd TV
Aea;s Da Sm wee_    e  p                                      rf peamar in, contr is and I.years when rygistration ofTVwas
_ad wn_e-Number of people (totaL Uba   d  rl)  d   by          in effec
eweta dispoel as pesnats of thir respecti  popullaom.          1alax a l     (pe i          pep    aJ.-Shoam  th aver-
Excet dp   may incldie th colleon  d dipoeL with or   aF   enudian or 'daiy gna imim  new*pW  deined a a
wilbo ustmt_ of kumse rm           Wwwwmb waa                  pFfa        Pu   mdeod prim y to  _mf  p_s1ow
bome systems or Lte  . of pit pzivls azzl i - iossul           It is condered to be d      if it appen at lees for_ a  a wesh.
Ibyin^ pe 'y              .L.. dividd by number or prac        C        Am       Au.dw  p  Cqpi p   Yu-Daed the dw
tiudspyiinqualiled from  amediclscool as uvety          .      number of dkeu sold ding h        . yncludin adm_sn to
Ppsih   d     Nw    Paei,-p ton divided bynumber of            dma-ile
practci  umae and emale graduat   nur   a_tant nu
-nsc nurom and muning auuiliaL                                  AW    FRC
P  -      p. bO N.   hi-aI,a              I ud-p               To  L         r                          active pesons, en-
*total. uban. andnanl) diider.     heir  sective tn m          dadn armd fosu ad unaployad but excludin houoewives.
hoepta beds amalablei pgbeand WwAgnrlm  Vw n                   students etc., coverin  populationr. all ages Deltimia    in
hospitals and rebbatation centrs Hospital am embd              varou couintre ane not comupars   1960.1970 and 3933 data.
PerI dy M-        by at ient one phytie;, Establishments pra-  -F      F      I-       labor form a pereae of total labor
id_ pnncpily cod"  cue an n  iduded Rual houepls,                c.
howmm .ncluAode bealth andmedicalm  nt pessrmanenysafd         Ap*i_  (fpwow-Labor form    faurmi, forey. bhnng
by a physcian (but by a meica amistn. n        idwfe, er-)     and fili t  peasnI g of to   bor forcr 1960 1970 and 1960
which offr in-patient a  modato   and provide a *me  nge       datiLa
or medic  fitius.                                             hlwr  (oweer)-Labor forc in mining, oactuon. mano-
A      _r pw B_sp$d Ra-Total number of admisos to or           ractringand electricity. water ad ps as pecetg of total labor
disch s from hoepitals divided by the number or be_           force 1960, 1970 and 1930 duL
P _ RAw ra_,_-1_rd
IOUSING                                                        or actvity rates a  compucd a total male. and Swnle labor for
Amq H - e t of q   h    (psme PW k d                 a         as F _pecetae of ouL mal ad feml populton of aD aW
aduud'L-Aboeclddemss fagroupofindividal           oemh         rspeiv-. 1960.1970. and 1933 data.    e T m   bsd on ILOs
ling quarts and the ma  mIs A boare or lodpr may or            partcpationraes  cngag-stucurofepopuSin.d
may not be ided in the hoooid for statsical pmpoem.            ln tam trend. A few estmae a  fom  nati  womm
Arqe - N    ff.r Rin-ed,K _icm ad _nrl-                        EemeAc Depeahwy Dati-Retio or ppulatio  uder 1. ad
Averg  nuher of persons pe rom  in al urba  and mi            65 an oe so t workg  e ppuaion (ts aged 15-6).
oced coa weniona dweDinl  repevely. Dweins emcude
non-pernentu sua~u    and unoccupied pas                       NCOME DlSlltDUTION
Pwe_q  PfDE_  WM Ap-IsrtC   mica,,_ adna -                    hne        r of Tad Dhpme  famwm (^h  in cm* ad kD-
Convendona dweln  wi ectricity in liin quatr   pmn-           Acnin to p ntiM  goups of bouh     ranked by tot home-
aV of toaL urban, d nul dwelig respevely.                     hold inom.
EUCATnON                                                      POVExRT TARCET GROUPS
A#wrd Erwd_rAmRw                                              The folowing estimates an  very approximate mcsures of poverty
nmwy school - tail, malk and faok-Gross totsL male and        lvdL and should be interpreed with conserable caution.
falae enoumet of an age at the prdnay leve as pecentae  of    Estiumed Aise/- Poverty laca' Lewd LUSS p  capie)-.w.n
rspectiv primary schoo   popu ^l   Wbik mnmy countries        ad nred-Absolute poverty income kvel is that income levd
consie primary scbool age to be 6-11 yeams othem do noL The    bdow which a minimal nutritionagly adequate diet plus essential
diffrnces in counory pract  in the ages ad duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable
are reflected in the raiios gvn. For some countris with uiversal  Emred Re/dwe Pover   lame  Leve (LSS per capkWa-wean
eduatio   ross enrfoment may eceed 100 percent ince somre      ad *e-dRurl relative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils at below or above the country9s sadard primary-schol   avea  per capita penonal income of the country. Urban levd is
wa                                                             derived from the rural lv  with adjumtment for higher cost of
Seconay scoo - ozw. _i ad feowe-Conputed as above:    living in urbn ars
secondry education requir  at kast four yeas of approved pri-  Enjefd       h      Mew Ahso&r Phrty lumw Lel (per-
nary inmucuon. prove generaL vocatonal, or taher training     cma)_-_ar   ad rral*- Prrcent of population turban and rural
insructions for pupils usully of 12 to 17 veas of ag: corespond-  who are -absoluu poor.
een court   an gerlly exduded.
vaaiced E ir      i (pecen of scodwvj-Vocational institu-                Comparati%v Analysis arnd Data Division
tios include tochncaL industriaL or other programs which operae       Ecomc Analysis and Proetions Deparonent
indepedetly or a deparumens of ecodary insututions                                    June 1985



- 36 -
Clp l? Capita:  033300 (1934)
uss 
{iL1s_193    1911cta
at rr_vt ees)                          ^tld                                 el
NAItL y6
Groe. doestica Product            Sl.9os            4.3    3.9    1.7    3.6    0.9          4.0        4.7
Agriculte                       1.393             1.1    5.9    4.7    4.3   -3.3          4.0        4.4
Za-tnery                          933             3.1    4.    -0.6    1.3    2.3          4.0        9.2
eivice                          2.G07              .5    G.A    0.6    3.3    3.3          4.0        4.7
Comweptian                        4.734            -1.3   -1.3    4.4    4.4   -4.3          2.3        4.3
Gr   Investment                   1329             39.0   -2.1  -23.1   -4.3    4.0          4.3        6.1
Zxprt. of GU                      1.C30             5.5   -4.3    0.3    0.0   4.1           8.3        4.6
Xert  of Gm                       1.706            10.3  -20.7  -16.6   -4.2    n.o          2.9        4.3
Cr.. domestic saving.             1.114            40.7   23.3  -..3    1.7   -3.0          -0.9        4.9
CDr dlatar (1934-100 in US3)                         51.5   62.8   75.3   92.4  100.0    iii.0.
_hane rate (eb/UUS)                                   7.4    9.0   10.9   13.3   14.4        1U.3
Ibarem of cup at lb*mt Mre.o CI)             Avewq  LAmim .ceaa  (2)
tt tr      i )                             a.t.!t 
1930             19          0     1970-73 191-3   191-.X's           193-WI
Green domestic pwd./a  10. 0    100.0   100.0   100.0          9.4      4.0      2.2      4.0      4.6
Aice l re               27.1    26.7    26.7    26.4          5.6     3.2      2.1      4.0      4.3
Ind.try                 18.3    15.7    15.3    16.1        15.4      7.9      1.2      4.2      5.4
larvie s                M.A      43.      43.7    43.3        7.5     3.4      2.7      4.0      4.9
Co_ina1e                  81.4    80.3      7      3  77.6     11.5     6.2      3.0      3.1      4.4
Grea  ivemt               30.0    21.4    21.7    23.2        -3.3    12.2    -3.9        *.2     4.6
Z'-t D  CofPS 2M             6     26.5    30.3    27.2         1.7     1.3    -2.2    11.2       2.1
lZOrc  of Gm              40.0   23.6       30.9    28.0      -2.0      6.4    -6.4       3.0      2.3
Grown natioml  *avin      17.5    13.3    19.2    21.3        -0.9    11.2    -0.2        3.7      1.U
A * of 001
czmUa  co rmW  ?IRAbCe /bree
1930/1     1931/82    1982/33    1933/84   19?15 8
Revene and Crat.                   26.1       2.0        24.7      24.1       23.8       24.0
Raven"                         B.T        11 223T 1                     -22:1       21.9
Crat.                           0.3        1.4        1.5        1.2       1.7        2.1
Iupedftnre                         34.5       33.4       23.4      28.4       27.9      23 0
Current eaenitir              IN7        15T       -m2         21 0      ICY         UT7
Capital ipemiture              10.1        9.9        6.2       7.6        7.2        7.3
Overall cab deficit                 9.3        *.7        3.1       4.2        5.0        4.1
Avwrae Amal Grout) CZ)
(at ce_etant Mies)
1660-70    1970-73    1975430      1934-4      M6360
oTHER DICATU
Cw grotw  rCae (C)                        3.2         5.3        4.*         4.2         3.2
cUP por cit. rlowt) rWA  C)               2.2         2.2         1.3        0.2         1.2
2nr  censoati_ greetl) rate C)             -          -          4.9          -           -
26O1                                      *.1        4.2         *.3         5.3         4.6
ffrziaa eavinp rate                        27         0.00       0.21        0.333       0.069
lepert elsticity                          0.9       -0.2         1.1         0.1         0.9
la At mikat price.; comtpnat are  preeeeW at factor cot and  ll mm a_ did       to incluelm  ef
a   indirect tmand mbaidi_.
rinal yarn ending Jn 30.
. 198



- 37 -
Population:      19.7 ulilUo  (1984)                                                              AN   I
GNP Per Capita: USS300 (1984)                                                                      Page 6
KENYA: MXERL TRADE
Amount         - - - -         -  Annual Crowth Rates CZ)          - - - - - - -- -
(milion USS                         (At constant 1984 prices)
InSdetor                   at curreot prle.)                     Actual                          Pro1 cted
1984           1980    1981    1982    1983   1984            1985    1986
RNAL TRADE
Merchandise aporta            1,078              3.2   -5.2    -3.3   -1.5   -1.9               9.5   1.9
Primry                        917            -7.3      6.7    13.9    -1.1   -2.0            10.S    21.3
Masmfacture.                  161             29.6  -16.3  -16.5    -3.0   -0.1               4.0     4.0
ercharAdlse Imports           1,54R             14.7  -22.8  -12.5   -11.3       7.3            2.8     5.3
Food                          155             57.6  -48.4    58.4  -10.1       8.8           6.8  -15.7
Petroleum                     523             16.7  -21.5    -6.7   -18.2      0.4          -0.4      3.5
Machinery and equipment       450             19.0  -22.0  -19.2  -13.4   12.1                4.2    10.0
Others                        420              5.0   -7.1    -3.6   -1.3    11.5              3.7    10.6
PuCE'
Eort price index                100.0           57.6   63.2   69.4   83.3  10n.0               85.8   105.5
Iport pr:ce index               100.0           50.4   64.4   74.0   94.8  100.0              97.2   101.4
Tene of trade index             100.0          114.4   98.1    93.7   87.9  100.0             A8.3   104.0
Composition of Merchandise
Trade *(Z                           Average Annual Growth
(at current prices)                      (at constant prices)
1981     1954     1986      1990      1974-79   1980-64   1984-86   1916-90
Exports                            100.0    100.0    100.0      100.0          -       -2.2       14.1     1is
Primary                          87.7     85.1    87;6        84.8         2.1       2.2       15.A      0.7
Manufactures                     12.3      14.9     12.4      15.2       -11.3      -3.4       4.0       6.7
xmports                            100.0    100.0    100.0      100.0          -       -7.3       4.0       4.2
Food                              4.8      10.0      8.4       7.7       -10.4       5.9      -5.1       2.2
Petrolem                         36.9      33.8     32.2      30.1        -2.1      -8.5        1.5      2.5
Machinery and equlpment          27.2     29.0    30.7        33.1         1.7      -7.6       7.1       6.2
Others                           31.2    27.2       28.8      29.1          -        0.9       7.1       4.6
Direction of Trade
Share of trade with         Share of trade with        Share of trade with capital
Industrial countries (2)   developing countries (I)       surplm oll exporters (2)
1979     1981     1984      1979     1981     1984       1979      19A1      19R4
Exports       54.4    42.1      5;.3      34.0      45.0     33.8       1.8       2.3       0.7
Imports       67.4     57.3    56.5       10.0      8.2      17.7      20.3      33.5      24.1
March 19A6



- 38-                                  a
Population:  19.7 million (1444)                                                                               ANNEX I
GM? per Capitst  USt300 (1984)                                                                                  re   /
KENYA:  BALANCE oF PAYNTS  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions USS at current ortces)
Actus1                                   Estiated
19R0        19RI        19R2        1983        1984        1985        19Rh
BALANCE Of PAYMENTS
Exports of goode and mervices             2,n38        1,747       1,h16       1,507       1 621       1,577       2.101
Exports of good.                        1.243        1.050         434         923       1 ,7R       1.013       1.480
Exports of services                       795         697          hR2         5R4         543         564         621
Imports of eoodr *nd services             3,070        2,5a4       2 16l       17A7       1,954       19q66       2 2A9
Imuports o  goods T:d                               2,14R       T:7         T,42        TZ5         ;5          T  UIe
Imports of services                       437         436         440          361         405         419         445
(of which:  interest)                  (131)       (162)       (178)       (162)       (181)       (191)       (198)
Transfers (net)                              140          95          67         115         147         104          67
Current Accounr Balance                     -R92        -743        -477        -165        -185        -285        -101
Direct Investment (net)                       78          G0          60          74          4n          42          41
Public KLT  loan  (not)                      444         275         217          84         167         215         274
Cross disbursements                        S62        437          397         262         382         4hR         446
Repayments                                 118         162        IR0          178         215         253         222
IMF Credit (net)                              69          27         147          96         -11          44         -92
Purchases                                  7R           35         165         142          47         1I          -
Repurchases                                             a 8         19          46          59         69           92
Other capital (net) /a                       148         131          33          76           A         -36         -14
Change In Gross Reserves                   -153        -250          -20         165           2         -20        l1n
Memorandu items:
Gross reserves at year's end              500          25n         230         196         398         378         488
Reserves as weeks imports                   10           6           7          10          11          9           10
Current account deficit as % of CoP
Including official grants /b           12.5        11.fl        7.7         2.R         3.1         4.7         1.5
Excluding official grants Lc           14.2        12.3         9.0         5.n         5.5         6.5         2.8
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
r.roes Diebursements
Official grents /d                      123          82          R0         125         tsn
Concessional loans                      178         149         191          92         206
Bilateral-DAC                          66         m04          8S          44          q1
llileteral-OPEC                        -            8           6           4          38
IDA                                    ;2          15          85          2n          3fi
Ocher                                  41          22          is          24          39
Nonconcessional loans                     383         288         206          171        179
Official export credits                  16          31          16          51          17
IBRD                                     44          59          85          99         12R
Other multilateral                       16          15          25           8           18
Privete-source                          307         183          g0          13          16
PublIc MLT loan  - total                  562         A37         397          262        3R2
/a  Includes short-term capital, commercial bank'' net foreign posItIon, error. and omissions and valuation
adjustment.
lb  Including officiel grants -above the line' as an item  contributing to the determination of cbe current
account deficit.
Ic  Treating offScial grants as a  belov the line- item which contributes to the financinc of the current
accounc deficit.
Id  -Government transfer receipts- in the bslance of payments.
7e  Including the purchase of the gun boats and airplanes.
March 1986



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statemnt of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1986
-- USS Hillion
Loan or                                                              Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit E    Year   Borrower   Purpose                               Bank 11   IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-six (36) Loans, of which six were cancelled, twenty-eight
(28) Credit. and two (2) Third Window Loans Fully Disbursed*         561.45    360.06
1449       1977    Kenya     Bura Irrigation Settlement              31.00               8.31
750       1978    Kenya     Snall Scale Industry                               7.67     2.76
1550       1978    Kenya     Second Urban                            25.00              21.23
1637       1979    Kenya     Rural Water Supply                      20.00              18.20
1684       1979    Kenya     Highway Sector                          90.00               5.74
914       1979    Kenya     Smallholder Coffee rmprovement                    27.00    22.02
959       1980    Kenya     Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                     12.00     6.74
962       1980    Kenya     Baringo Semi-Arid Areas                            4.00     1.08
1799       1980    Kenya     Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)        40.00 2/            2.32
1817       1980    IDB       Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank             30.00              11.36
1045       1980    Kenya     Export Promotion Technical Aast.                   4.50     3.74
1051       1980    Kenya     Fisheries                                          6.50     6.33
1107       1981    Kenya     Fifth Education                                   40.00    29.16
1976       1981    Kenya     Railway                                 58.00              10.40
1995       1981    Kenya     Fourth Agriculture                      25.00               6.29
2065       1982    Kenya     Petroleum Exploration                    4.00               0.55
(2098      (1982   (Kenya    (Forestry III 3/                         21.50              21.50
(1213      (1982   (Kenya    (Forestry III                                      16.00     6.19
1237       1982    Kenya     Cotton Proc. & Marketing 3/                       22.00    20.33
1238       1982    Kenya     Integrated Rural Health 6
Family Planning 3/                             23.00    13.75
2155       1982    Kenya     Second Telecommunications               44.70              18.26
1277       1983    Keitya    Agric. Technical Assistance 3/                     6.00     2.23
2237       1983    Kenya     Olkaria Geothermal Expansion            12.00       -       6.70
1387       1983    Kenya     National Extension 3/                             15.00    10.27
(2319      (1983    Kenya    (Secondary Towns                          7.00               6.98
(1390      (1983    Kenya    (Secondary Towns 3/                                22.00    15.21
2359       1984    Kenya     Kiambere Hydroelectric                  95.00              62.05
(2409      (1984   (Kenya    (Second Highway Sector                   50.00             (49.88
(F017      (1984   (Kenya    (Second Highway Sector                             40.00   (43.02
1486       1984    Kenya     Geothermal Exploration                            24.50    26.01
1566       1985    Kenya     Water Engineering 3/                               6.00     4.21
2574       1985    Kenya     Third Telecomun;,cations 4/            32.60               32.60
1673       1986    Kenya     Sixth Education4/                                 37.50    37.50
1675       1986    Kenya     Petroleum Explora Tech. Assist.41                  6.00     6.00
Total                               1,147.25    679.74   538.91
of which has been repaid            136.20      7.60
Total now outstanding               1,011.05    672.14
Amount sod                  11.81
of which has been repaid  11.81        .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                  967.10    632.49
TOTAL undisbursed                               282.38    256.53   538.91
*   In addition, Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.R million
which were extended for the development of conmon services (railways, ports,
telecommunications, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner
states of the former East African Community (EAC).
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.
4/ Not yet effective.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
April 30, 1986
Fiscal Year  Obligor                      Type of Business        Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,  Kenya Hotel Properties       Hotels                   5.2   , 0.7       5.9
and 1973
1970, 1974,  Pan African Paper Mills      Pulp and Paper          22.2     6.3      28.5
1977, 1979
and 1981
1972         Tourism Promotion            Hotels                   2.4     -1/       2.4
Services
1976         Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.   Textiles                  6.3     2.8       9.1
1977         Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.  Capital Market            2.0     -         2.0
1980         Development Finance          Development Finance      4.7     1.3       6.0
Company of Kenya Ltd.
1981         Kenya Commercial Finance    Money & Capital Market  5.0       -         5.0
1982         Bamburi Portland             Cement & Construction   4.4      -         4.4
Cement Co., Ltd.             Material
1982         Diamond Trust of Kenya       Money & Capital Market  -        0.8       0.8
Limited
1982         Industrial Promotion         Money & Capital Market  -        0.6       0.6
Services (Kenya) Ltd.
1983         Tetra Pak Converters         Pulp & Paper Products   2.2      0.3       2.5
Limited
1984         Leather Industries of        Tanning                  1.9     0.6       2.5
Kenya Limited
1984         Madhu Paper International   Pulp & Paper 1-oducts  37.1       2.0      39.1
Limited
1985         Equatorial Beach             Tourism                  3.7     -        3.7
Properties
1985         Oil Crop Development Ltd.                             9.1     1.4      10.5
Total Gross Commitments                             106.2    16.8    123.0
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                 62.3     3.7     66.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   43.9    13.1      57.0
Total Undisbursed                                    12.2     0.9     13.1
1/ $51,395.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Prolect Data Sheet
I.   (a) Time taken to prepare:                   3 months
(b) Prepared by:                             Government and World Bank
(c) Date of first major presentation to
the Bank Group:                          April 1985
(d) Appraisal Mission:                       June 1985
Post-Appraisal Mission                   October/November 1985
Ce) Negotiations:                            April/May 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness            October 1986
II.  Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a)    A signed contract for the Technical Assistance Pool (Phase III)
will be a condition of effectiveness.
(b)    Participating agencies would prepare and submit an annual work
plan and training program to IDA for review and comment by
January of each year.
(c)    Disbursement for the KREMU component would be conditional on
prior approval of the annual work plan and training program.
(d)    A mid-term review of the training program would take place
between the Government and IDA after the first two years of
project implementation.
(e)    A mid-term review of the Technical Assistance Pool would take
place between Government, IDA and the other donors to this
component after the first two and one-half years of the
project, no later than June 1988.



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
Tentative List of Expert Services Needed
Under the Astricultural Sector Manatement Prolect
Terms of Reference for resident technical assistance are
included in the Implementation Volume. Forty-six staff years of long-term
technical assistance and five staff years of short-term consultants would
be provided under the Project, broken down by institutions as follows:
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MALD)
A total of 20 staff years of advisory services would be
provided for this component, to support activities in three main areas: (a)
Economics and Policy Analysis: 13 staff years; (b) Budget and Finance: 5
staff years; and (c) Management: 5 staff years.
(a)    Economics and Policy Analysis:  13 staff years would be
provided to assist in identifying, developing and appraising crop and
livestock project proposals; preparation of the Annual Price Review;
analysis of food policy, pricing and production issues; assessing and
monitoring long-term policies and strategies; monitoring the Government's
agricultural sector a.djustment program; and preparing a second sector
operation.
(b)    Budtet and Finance:  five staff years of advisory staff would
be provided to assist with budget rationalization, reviewing budget and
financial management problems in the Ministry, and training.
Cc)   ManaRement:  Two staff years of technical assistance would be
provided to assess key management-related issues and problem  in MAID;
provide support for designing management improvement procedures; assist
with the Budget Task Force activities; and to organize management training.
To supplement resident technical assistance, 35 months of
short-term consultants would be provided under the Project in the areas of
project and policy analysis and microprocessor training. In addition, the
short-term consultants would assist in preparing and teaching short-term
courses on selected subjects relevant to the work of the Development
Planning Division, including agricultural price analysis, project
appraisal, and demand and supply projections. All the technical assistance
support to be provided for MALD would be administered under the Technical
Assistance Pool (TAP).
Ministry of Finance
Three staff years of expert assistance would be provided to the
Budget and Supply Department to assist in design and Implementation of the
Government's Budget Rationalization Program. A Senior Budget Expert would
help identify priorities, processes and procedures for rationalization of
recurrent and development expenditures; improve the program review and
Forward Budget process; and provide on-the-job training.



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
In addition, five months of short-tenm technical assistance
would be provided to assist on specific budget-related issues and on-the-
job training of officials in the Budget Supply Department. All this
technical assistance support would be administered under the TAP.
Two staff years of technical assistance would be provided for
the Investment Division to assist in analysis of investment proposals,
including incorporation of parastatals into the budget process.
Ministry of Planning and National Development (MPND)
Five staff years of expert assistance would be provided to
assist in all aspects of macro policy and longer term economic policy
making. This would be administered under the TAP.
National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB)
Two staff years of expert services would be provided to assist
NCPB in initiating, planning, and coordinating the design, development and
implementation of its computer-based integrated information systems for
financial and stock management. In addition, three staff months of short-
term technical assistance would be provided to develop training courses to
assist in implementation of these systems. All technical assistance
support would be administered under the TAP.
Kenya Rangeland Ecoloiical Monitoring Unit
Twelve staff years of technical assistance would be provided in
the following areas: (a) five staff years to assist in introduction of and
effective use of the computerized Geographical Information System (GIS);
and (b) seven years of pilots for aerial survey work and training.
Resident technical assistance would be supplemented by 13 staff-months of
short-term consultants in various disciplines, who would contribute to the
implementation of the GIS and specific projects in technical fields such as
ecology. Local pilots would be trained by the expatriate pilots in
specialized aerial survey flying, allowing a reduction in the number of
expatriate pilots over the project period.
Inspectorate of Statutory Board (IS3)
One expert would be provided for two years to assist in matters
of corporate planning and organization and methods to improve the data-
gathering and management consulting capacity of the ISB   In addition, five
staff months of short-term consultants would be provided to assist ISB in
devising a central data bank on parastatal enterprises.



- 44 -
ANNEX V
Table 1
AGRI CUTUR4L SEcromR MAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(SH Io 000                 luss 0001                    N Total
------I--------------------- ----___---------------- 7 foreign  Bae
Local   Foreign   Total      Local Foreign   Total   Exchang    Comts
A. MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK DEYELOPIIENT    16,720.7  8?.529.4 104,249.6  1.045.0  1.410.B  6,51.5     6        38
L KENYA RANGELAND ECOLOGICAL hMITORING UNIT           45.462.9  50.S1l9  97,261.1  2.903.9  3, 171.2 2 080.1        52       36
C. NATIONAL CEREALS AND PRODUCE BOAR0                  7.397.6  15. 362.4  22.760.0   462.4   960.2  1. 422.5        67       8
0. NATIONtAL IRRIGATION  OARS                          2.206.7    704.0  2.910.7   137.9    44.0    161.9            24       1
E. INSPECTORATE OF STATUTORY SOARDS                    t. OOL 0  9.097. 6  10. 105.6    63.0   568.6   131.6        90        4
F. TREASURY                                            3.216.0  11,931.2  23. 147.2   201.0  1.245.7  1.446.L       86        9
G.  IIIISTRY OF PLANNING AND NATIONAL OEVELOPMENT      2.640.0  8.920.0  11.560.0    165.0   557.5   722.5           77       4
Total BASEINlE COSTS                                    79.651.4 192,363.5 272.014.9  4.978.2 12.022.7 17,000.9        71     0oo
Physical Contingmmcies                                4.04.5   5,382.5  11.077.2   255.9   435.4   fl2.3            63       4
Price Contingencies                                  14.565.5  33,033.5  47.599.0   910.3  2.064.6 2,174.9          69      17
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     98.311.4 232. .79.7 330.691 1 6,144.5 14.523.7 20.1EEL2        70     122
33333a3        ..3.33333.  33.3.33333332    .33.   3333333
May 9. 1915 19:27



KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECIOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
(KSH  0001
IIENYA
MINISTRY OF   RAN1GELAND    NATIONAL                                                  OFFICE OF   MINISIRY OF                   Physical
AGRICUltURE   ECOLOGICAL  CEREALS AND   NAIIONAL   INSPECIORATE or                     AUDITOR    PLANNING AID                Conti-ngoles
AND LIVESTOCK  MNITORIING    PRODUCE    IRRIGATION          STATU1ORY        -        GENERAL FOR    NATIONAL                  -------------
DEVELOPM4ENT      UNIT         BOARD        BOARD           BOARDS        TREASURY  PARASIATAL   DEVELOPIENT    Total          I      qAt
::: u: u  :2ara, 3ssa  : :assa:as                            .........* ..a .a.......  ......a.u aM. m..as.* 333333  mS  ..3 *-----s..3...umf. .
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOCAL                  680.0      S. 200.0             -     1. 104. 0                -                         -                   1,184.0   0.0        o.e
S. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOREIGN             41, 320.0    265688.0       5,552.0             -           3.520. 0   9,880.0             -        a.920.0   95. UO. 0   0.0        0.0
C. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                   1. 152.0     3. 896.0      2,912.0      1.710.7              480.0      336.0                             -   10,486.7  10.0  1.048.7
D. VEHICLES                                    384. 0    29,009.8              -            -                            -             -               -   29,393.8   2. 3    676.4
E. HOUSING                                  10. 560.0     6,336.0 J. 05. 0                  -             768. 0   2. 640. 0           -        2. 640.0   24. 000.0   0.0      0.0
Total INVESTMENI COSTS                         54,296.0    71. 129.8       9,520.0      2.814.7            4,168.0  12,856.0               -      I.5W0.0  166,944.5   1.0  1.727. 1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS                          2,966.4    15. 166.4       7.312. 0        96.0                  -          -             -               -   25,540.1  10.0  2.554.t
B. OVERSEAS TRAININO                       27,342.4             -      4,208.0             -           S,337.6   9. 731.2             -               -   46,19.2  10.0  4.661.3
C. SALARIES                                 7. 120.0     4 105. 6         64.0                               -          -             -              -   11,289.6   0.0        0.0
D. LOCAL TRAINING                          11,444.8      6.880. 0      1,656.0                               -      400.0             -                   20. 380.8  10.0  2.031.I
E. MEETINGS                                 1,050.0             -             -            -                 -      160.0             -               -    l 240. 0   7.7     9.0
Total RECURRFNT COSTS                          49,953.6    26. 152.0      13. 240.0         96.0           5.337.6  10. 291.2              -                 105. 070.4   5.9  9.350.1 
Total BASELINE COSTS                           104,249.6    97,281.6       22,760.0      2.910.7           10. 105.6  23,147.2              -      11,560.0  272,014.9   4.1 11.077.2
Physical ContingencIes                        4,409.0      3.234.        1,608.8         180.7             582.8   1,062.7              -               -    12,077.2   0.0       0.0                   11
Price Cantinqnefles                          20,903.4     15,983.5       3,416.6         432.3             979.4   3.545.9              -        2.335.9   47,599.0   4.3  2.053.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                            129,562.0   116,499.6       27,787.4       3.523.7          11.666.7  27,755.9               -       13.695.9  330.691.1   4.0 13. 130.5
*:pahswsuu    :.:...m.....  .nnu:..u.... .. 2:33223:13  :    3::3:2s::t: ::2. :::t  3:.3 u::s:. rs:8:h:               2 : ::::  :2:: .::::=:.
Taxes                                         5,083.4    20.822.1        2,314.6      1.444.4              273.2      106.5                             -    0. 044.2   5.5   , 649.6
Foreign Exthange                            107, 955.0    59,750.7      18, 463. 7      879.0           10, 562. 6  24.087.?            -       10. 679.8  232. 379.7   3.6   , 258. 5
May 9. 1986 129:27



S U D A N       _ _             J,\                                                  a        UA    ,o;l
f /- SUDAN    -,                                                                                  *IE T H I    P  I A*
'I  I;                       aS                              XA      ,H   
A/
j~~~~~ /
U GANDA                                                                                          I
PETROLEUM EXPLORATO..-                           t                                  ="
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJC                                t       8ll00   g
ID NLEl Corll6DO                                1eolP;\6Ir4sf..Z. ...-                 6
ID roin Crislsz  *.Solm r. o_#eEN4-



