Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RETURN         T                      Rtepo No. P-2072-EGT
REPORTS D(Su7
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOANS
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE II PROJECT
May 18, 1977
This document hu a resricted distribution nd may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorlutlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                  =                US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                           =                 LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$1.70
1 US Dollar                           =                 LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$1.56
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$1.47
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                 =                 US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.70
ABBREVIATIONS
DCA        - Development Credit Agreement
EPADP      - Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
fd         -  Feddan = 1.04' acres = 0.42 hectares
KfW        - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
M&LT       - Medium and long term
PA         - Project Agreement
PVC pipes  - poly-vinyl chloride pipes
USAID      - United States Agency for.International Development
Fiacal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT - NILE DELTA DRAINAGE II PROJECT
Credit/Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:        Credit:              $27.0 million
Loan:                $27.0 million
Third Window Loan:  $12.0 million
Total             $66.0 million
Terms:         Credit:  Standard
Loan:    20 years, including 4 1/2 years grace with
interest at 8.2 percent.
Third Window Loan: First repayment date: January 15, 1983,
Final maturity:        January 15, 2001.
Prolect        The project works include:
Description:
1.   Drainage Works:
(a)  construction of four new drainage pumping stations,
including electric transmission lines;
(b)  replacement of ten obsolete pumping units in two
existing drainage pumping stations;
(c)  deepening and widening of 1,565 km of existing open
main drains serving an area of 810,000 fd and exten-
sion or reconstruction of existing structures; and
(d)  installation of covered field drains and collectors
in an area of 400,000 fd.
2.   Assistance to the Extension Service of the Ministry of
Agriculture by financing transportation and audio-visual
equipment.
3.   Extension of the Government's bilharzia control program
by about 1,200,000 fd between Giza and the Aswan High Dam.
4.   Assist in financing the partly UNDP-financed "Master Plan
for Water Resource Development and Use."
This document has a retrictd distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performane
of tholt offiW duties. Its contents may not otherwie be dinclosed without World Bank authorlabnss.



Prolect Cost and
Financing Plan:
IDA/Bank        KfW       Government
Foreign       Foreign       Local         Total
…--------------…$ million L -----------------
Drainage Works
Equipment and
Materials              20.2           --             -           20.2
Civil Works              16.3           -             60.2        76.5
Administration              -           --             7.1          7.1
Production of PVC Pipe
Equipment and
Materials                --          13.8             -         13.8
Civil Works                --           0.4            0.3         0.7
Production                 -            1.8            1.0         2.8
Agricultural Extension          0.3                                      0.3
Bilharzia Control
Equipment and
Materials               8.4           -               --         8.4
Administration             --           --             3.6         3.6
Master Plan for
Water Resource
Development and Use            0.9          -               --          0.9
Base Cost Estimates
Sub-total                46.1          16.0           72.2       134.3
Contingencies
Physical                  5.4           1.7           10.6        17.7
Price                    14.5           6.3          34.2         55.0
Total               66.0          24.0         117.0        207.0
/1   Discrepancies are due to rounding.



Disbursements:
Egyptian Fiscal Year               1978   1979   1980   1981    1982
Project Year                        1      2      3      4'      5
------------$ million-----------
IDA Credit and Bank Loans
Total                         21.1   18.8   11.2    8.4     6.5
Cumulative Total              21.1   39.9   51.1   59.5   66.0
Procurement    Equipment and materials for project construction, operation and
Arrangements: maintenance estimated to total about $10.4 million 1/ would be
procured after international competitive bidding in accordance
with World Bank guidelines. Domestic bids would be allowed a
margin of preference of 15 percent or the actual customs duty,
whichever is lower. For purposes of bid comparison, the
parallel market exchange rate will be applied. Procurement of
non-proprietary equipment costing less than $10,000 each would
be exempted from international competitive bidding. Contracts
may be awarded to reliable suppliers after having obtained
price quotations from at least three such suppliers. The
aggregate cost of such items would not exceed $150,000. Also,
proprietary equipment may be purchased off-the-shelf from reli-
able suppliers. The aggregate cost of such items would also
not exceed $150,000. Molluscicide and drugs for chemotheraphy
for bilharzia estimated to cost $8.9 million would also be
exempted from international competitive bidding. They would
be procured from the one manufacturer (in West Germany) who is
known to produce both these products and from a licensee, (in
the US) who is known to produce the molluscicide. The products
of the manufacturer, which have been tested in the proje t
area, have been accepted by WHO and have proven to be the most
effective ones.
PVC pipe laying, construction of collfct'or drains and pumping
stations would be implemented under contracts estimated,at
$31.2 million and awarded through international competitive
bidding following World Bank guidelines for procurement.
Contracts for civil works for construction of structures in
open drains, buildings, and installations of field drainage
1/   Excluding physical contingencies.



- iv -
in orchards with cement pipe, estimated to total about $9.4
million, and which are being financed by IDA and the Bank,
would be procured on the basis of local competition, accord-
ing to local procedures, which are satisfactory. These small
and varied works, scattered throughout the project area, and
planned to be implemented during the whole project construction
period, are not suitable for international competition. They
would be effectively implemented by local private contractors,
whose performance in the past has been proven to be adequate.
The remaining civil works (earthworks) for remodelling of open
drains will be financed by the Government and procured on the
basis of local procedures.
Procurement for the production of PVC plastic pipes will be in
accordance with the agreement between KfW and the Government.
Technical      Contractors would train Egyptian personnel in the operation,
Assistance:   maintenance and repair of project equipment.    EPADP would
implement a training program for engineers and technicians.
Estimated
Economic
Rate of
Return:    23 percent on drainage component.
Appraisal      Report No. 1451-EGT
Report:       Date: May 5, 1977



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT AND LOANS TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT FOR
THE NILE DELTA DRAINAGE II PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit of $27 million on standard IDA terms, a proposed Bank loan of
$27 million for a term of 20 years including 4-1/2 years grace, with interest
at 8.2 percent per annum, and a proposed Bank loan of $12 million on standard
Third Window terms for which the first repayment date would be January 15,
1983 and the final maturity January 15, 2001, to the Arab Republic of Egypt to
finance part of the costs of the Nile Delta Drainage II Project.     (The grant
element of the combined Bank/IDA financing is 46.3 percent.) The Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany is also expected to participate in the fi-
nancing of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A
basic economic mission visited Egypt in May/June 1976 and its report is under
preparation. Updating missions visited Egypt in October 1976 and January
1977; the findings of these missions are incorporated in this report. Country
data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced rapid growth (around 6 percent a
year in real terms) under fairly rigid centralized planning and control. This
system came under increasing pressure in the second half of the decade follow-
ing bad harvests and increased defense expenditures, particularly as a result
of the civil war in Yemen. It deteriorated further after the war of 1967,
with the loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the
abandonment of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling the population of
about a million, and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance.
With the continuing military confrontation in the Middle East, Egypt further
increased defense spending at the expense of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of infrastructure and productive facilities. Real
GDP growth for 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year.
1/   All currency conversions are at the official rate of $2.56 = LE 1.



-2-
4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort
to accelerate economic development through modernization and making Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy more market-oriented.
Specifically, the policy envisaged (i) decentralization of decision-making in
state-owned enterprises, (ii) liberalization of the private sector, (iii) in-
centives for private foreign investment, and (iv) expanded economic coopera-
tion with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has initiated a number of steps
which are expected to lead to a significant restructuring of the economy. In
particular, steps have been taken to remove some of the restrictions on private
business activities, to decentralize public enterprise management, to encourage
foreign private investment, to expand foreign exchange transactions outside
the official rate, and to loosen many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.        Substantial inflows of external assistance from both Arab countries
and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the problems of the
Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major structural diffi-
culties remain, largely due to the continuing tension in the region and the
neglect of investment. These structural difficulties are also linked to the
major immediate weaknesses of the economy: the large deficit in the balance
of payments, the low level of government savings, and low efficiency in public
sector enterprises.
6.        The present government was formed in November 1976 following elec-
tions to the People's Assembly, which were the first in which a choice of
candidates representing diverse political views was offered to the voters.
The Cabinet was strengthened on the economic side, and a Deputy Prime Minister
for Financial and Economic Affairs was appointed to coordinate economic
policy-making, while President Sadat directed that economic questions should
be in the forefront of the new Cabinet's tasks.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        Growth in National Income.   Real growth in GDP (1975 prices) in-
creased from less than 3 percent in 1973 to about 3.2 percent in 1974 and an
estimated 9.8 percent in 1975 1/; the rise is attributed largely to recovery
of industrial activity through the provision of greater aid-financed inputs,
increased construction (particularly in the Canal Zone) and growth of trade
and services. The high rate of growth for 1975 was in part due to the recovery
of the Sinai oil fields (November 1975) and the reopening of the Suez Canal
(June 1975). If their effect on growth of the gross domestic product is ex-
cluded, the overall growth rate is estimated (by the Ministry of Planning) at
8.0 percent. Preliminary production data for 1976 indicate that the economy
continued to expand. The estimated rate of growth of 6.1 percent, however,
reflects increasing capacity constraints in some sectors.
8.        Investment.   Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment
during 1974 and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from
1/   Ministry of Planning.



- 3 -
Arab countries. Gross investment increased from $1,373 million in 1973
to $2,867 million in 1975 (in 1975 prices). This included a considerable
replenishment of stocks, which had been drawn down in the pre-October 1973
period. During 1976, as a result of shortages of both domestic and foreign
resources, investment is estimated at only about $2,300 million (1975 prices).
9.        Public Finance.   Because of the size of the public sector, the bulk
of Egypt's domestic financial resources for development is mobilized through
the state budget and public sector corporations. Considerable efforts have
been made in the past to increase such resources, largely by way of taxation.
In 1975 tax revenues were 22 percent of GNP. Public enterprises (although
hampered by Government-imposed pricing policies) and social insurance and
pension funds contributed an additional 8 percent and 5 percent of GNP, re-
spectively. Total public revenues reached 38 percent of GNP, a major effort
for a country of Egypt's low per capita income.
10.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $480 million (about 5 percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,830 1/ million (about
15 percent of GNP) in 1975, as the Government endeavored to protect domestic
consumers from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other
essential commodities. While exact data on defense spending are not available
(since a large portion is channelled through a separate account, partly foreign
financed--the Emergency Fund) it appears that the defense burden on the budget
eased over this period. Although it increased in absolute terms--from $1,100
million in 1973 to $1,485 million in 1976--defense spending, as a ptoportion
of total current expenditures, declined from about 39 percent to about 28 per-
cent in this period. Expenditures on economic and social services provided by
the Government (education, health, etc.) and other general expenditures have
risen at approximately the same rate as GNP.
11.       With increased current spending, public savings declined from 4 per-
cent to less than 1 percent of GNP between 1973 and 1975. However, preliminary
data for 1976 show an increase in public sector savings. As of May 1, 1976,
a number of subsidies were abolished, saving $140 million. A decline in inter-
national prices also helped cut the actual subsidy bill for 1976 to $1,600
million.
12.       Credit expansion in 1976 was 16 percent, a much smaller increase
than the 42 percent registered in 1975. Credit policy was more restrictive
and the credit needs of public sector companies were reduced because of a
running down of inventories and a decline in import commitments. Money and
quasi-money expanded by 25 percent compared with 21 percent in 1975. The
official consumer price index for the urban population estimated the price
index in 1975 at 10 percent, but the real rate was probably much higher. The
index for 1976 is not available, but indications are that the rate of infla-
tion was comparable to that in 1975.
1/   Including direct subsidies and public economic sector deficits.



-4-
13.       Balance of Payments.   Despite an increase in the value of com-
modity exports by 56 percent between 1973 and 1975 (largely as a result of
improved international prices) export earnings fell well short of imports.
Indeed, the country's import bill almost tripled in this period due to in-
creases in quantities imported, and soaring food and other prices. Egypt's
export receipts were influenced by declines in the physical production of
certain field crops (particularly cotton) due to a shift towards more profit-
able cash crops (fruits, vegetables, clover) and increased domestic demand for
exportable products. As a result, there was a decline in both the value and
quantity of some important exports.
14.       The imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by
fast-growing earnings from services and from workers' remittances. Never-
theless, the overall deficit on the trade and services account reached record
levels, increasing from $654 million in 1973 to $2,480 million in 1975.
15.       In 1976 the deficit was reduced significantly, although at $1,390
million it was still high. Preliminafy estimates show export earnings in-
creased by about 16 percent, due mainly to increased receipts from the Suez
Canal and to oil exports. Imports of goods and services fell by about 13
percent, in large part due to a decision to abandon the second tranche of the
1976 investment program and to restrict imports of intermediate and capital
goods. While there were some reductions in imports of consumer goods as well,
the smaller deficit must have been partly purchased at the cost of Egypt's
future growth.
16.       The large deficits on the goods and services account in 1974-1976
were met mainly through assistance from Arab countries, Iran and the United
States. The Arab support comprised grants as well as loans, and deposits in
the Central Bank of Egypt. However, in 1974 the deficit could be fully met
only by a substantial increase in short-term borrowing, including the use of
banking facilities. Higher levels of concessional assistance enabled a re-
duction in the use of these facilities in 1975, but lower aid flows in the
following year led Egypt to increase the use of this type of credit by over
$200 million to a total of $1.45 billion.
Development Problems and Prospects
17.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of the priorities of the projects into which
they are channelled. In turn, this implies: (i) greater restraint on the
growth of consumption; (ii) the removal of constraints created by inadequate
infrastructure (particulary ports, power, transport, and telecommunications);
(iii) greater emphasis on quick-yielding projects; (iv) more emphasis on com-
pleting ongoing projects than on starting new ones; (v) more active use of
prices (including the price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative
scarcities; (vi) streamlining bureaucratic processes; (vii) a vigorous move
towards increasing industry's efficiency and making it more export-oriented
and employment-generating (which would involve using existing industrial
capacity more fully, paying more attention to considerations of quality, and



-5-
encouraging small-scale industry); and (viii) a strengthened program to curb
the growth of population and the articulation of urban and rural strategies
which would decentralize the growth of the urban population away from Cairo
and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in smaller towns and
the rural areas. These issues will be addressed in the context o. a medium-
term plan the framework of which has been completed. The plan is presently
under preparation.
18.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.    The
reasons for this are in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to continue to
rise gradually until the Canal expansion program is completed in about 1980--
there is then likely to be a substantial increase in revenues; (iii) Egypt's
improved prospects for oil production, which is put (by the oil companies) at
one million barrels a day by 1980-82, substantially exceed domestic require-
ments; (iv) considerably increased earnings from tourism--these reached an
estimated $383 million in 1976; (v) the possibility of using agricultural
land more intensely with greater emphasis on high-value crops; and (vi) an
increasing flow of remittances ($445 million in 1976) from Egyptians working
abroad. 1/
19.       However, Egypt's long-term potential also hinges upon a number of
factors outside its own control. The most important is a movement towards an
equitable and definitive peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, Egypt
requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from abroad; this, in turn,
must be preceded by preparation of a suitable portfolio of projects to which
potential investors, whether private or official, foreign or domestic, can
contribute. Finally, it requires fundamental changes in economic policies
and institutions. Hence, it will probably take 5-10 years to achieve a
significant restructuring of the economy.
20.       .Recent Policy Actions.  Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing excess
consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) the parallel ex-
change market has been successively widened (the last widening took place in
March 1977), to comprise all exports except raw cotton, rice and petroleum and
all imports except basic mass consumption commodities and also excluding Suez
Canal revenues; (ii) the parallel market rate itself was further depreciated
to about 56 percent of the official rate; (iii) the attractiveness of the
parallel market was increased by establishing a list of items which may be
imported through it without exchange restrictions; (iv) parallel market imports
were valued for customs duties at the parallel market exchange rate (a measure
equivalent to an increase of about 80 percent in the tariff on applicable
imports); (v) ceilings on interest rates were removed and interest rates in-
creased; and (vi) the "general organizations" that exercised rigid control
over public industrial enterprises were dissolved and replaced by "higher
1/   Additional substantial remittances came in the form of "own-exchange"
imports.



- 6 -
councils," which permit somewhat more initiative to the individual enterprises.
The Government submitted a letter of intent to the IMF on March 4, proposing
to undertake further economic reform. On April 20, 1977, the Fund approved a
standby arrangement for the Government authorizing provision up to the equiv-
alent of SDR 125 million (approximately $145 million) over the next 12 months.
Drawings under the standby arrangement will be closely monitored and depend on
Egypt remaining within a series of quarterly credit ceilings designed to limit
the increase in the net domestic assets of the banking system to $1,536 million
in 1977.
External Assistance
21.       In 1967 the substantial amounts of Western external aid which Egypt
had been receiving practically ceased, and up to 1974 service payments gen-
erally exceeded disbursements. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries, estimated to have been in excess of $800 million,
financed the bulk of Egypt's development.
22.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt. Western medium- and long-term (M&LT) capital
assistance began to grow after October 1973. However, because of the slow
disbursements inherent in the aid process, and the heavy repayments due on
past loans, net M&LT transfers from OECD countries to Egypt were initially
small. Commitments from the OECD countries have, however, led to a strong
aid pipeline, and it is estimated that there were substantial inflows in 1976
which should continue in 1977.
23.       Among western aid donors, the US Government is currently committing
about $700 million of project and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about
$210 million of food assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD
countries, especially France, Germany and Japan, has remained at the increased
levels of 1974/75 (i.e., about $235 million per year). The European Community
is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in January 1977 the
Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing, over a five-year
period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional loans.
24.       Disbursements during 1977 under existing grant and M&LT loan commit-
ments are expected to total about $1.47 billion. 1/ If Egypt is to attempt
to solve its economic problems it will need to finance in 1977 substantial
increases in imports and to reduce its short-term indebtedness. Its need
1/   This amount includes among others disbursements from (i) a $250 million
cash loan made in 1976 by the Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt,
which is a $2.0 billion fund created by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE and
Qatar to participate in financing Egypt's development program; (ii)
a Eurodollar loan of $250 million from a consortium of American and
European banks, guaranteed by the Gulf Organization; and (iii) M&LT
project aid estimated $435 million (including $185 million from bila-
teral agreement countries). It excludes the additional assistance to be
provided by the Gulf Organization mentioned at the end of paragraph 24.



- 7 -
for imports of goods, including capital goods, is estimated at $5.0 billion,
partly to compensate for the severe reduction in imports in 1976. While
prospects for increases in receipts from exports are good, a current account
deficit of approximately $1.86 billion is forecast; in addition, a reduction
in short-term debt of at least $700 million (including paying off $450 million
of overdues) is desirable, amortization of M&LT debt will require $840 million,
and there will be a reduction in bilateral balances of about $200 million.
Thus total foreign exchange requirements will be about $3.60 billion. Taking
into account the estimated aid disbursements of $1,470 million, and estimated
suppliers' credits, private transfers and foreign investment of $480 million,
Egypt at present has a foreign exchange financing gap of approximately $1,650
million for 1977. A major effort towards meeting this gap was recently accom-
plished. In early April 1977, the Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt
agreed to provide financial support to Egypt in the amount of $1,475 million
to be made available in 1977 as a loan to the Central Bank of Egypt in stages,
while Egypt carries out its declared policies to correct its balance of pay-
ments disequilibrium.
25.       Consultative Group.   In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
Iran, major Western countries and Japan. Given the favorable responses re-
ceived from prospective members of the Group, an introductory meeting (focus-
sing on financing requirements) was held on May 11 and 12, 1977.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
26.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1975 was estimated at $5,101 million. This was almost
double the amount at end-1974 of $2,760 million. During the first nine months
of 1976 the debt rose to $5,670 million. Of this, official M&LT loans amounted
to $3,043 million (of which $731 million was in clearing currencies). Another
$1,942 million was in convertible currency deposits and $685 million in sup-
pliers credits. Major creditors were Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, USSR, USA, Abu
Dhabi and Iran. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 2.7 percent of the total. Debt
service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount to $680 million
in 1975, giving a debt service ratio of 26 percent. No reliable estimates of
military debt are available; Egypt is still making efforts to obtain resched-
uling of service payments on such debt.
27.       While the bulk of external assistance to Egypt was obtained on con-
cessional terms, the continued high level of short-term indebtedness continued
to be a cause of serious concern. Commercial bankers' credit facilities out-
standing (including undisbursed) amounted to $2,297 million at the end of
December 1976 of which $1,447 million were disbursed. The liquidity require-
ments of this type of indebtedness created severe problems for Egypt and
arrears in repayments were reported during the latter half of 1976.
28.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph 20
above) have initiated the structural adjustments required by Egypt's economic
situation and international environment. The situation however requires con-
tinuing review and further action. At the Government's request, the Bank has



- 8 -
arranged to review developments in the economy by economic missions three or
four times a year.
29.       If progress towards curbing the increase of both consumption expend-
itures and imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential
realized, Egypt's foreign capital inflow requirements are estimated at about
$2.8 billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. The required capital
inflows are large--but if they are available on the terms expected, Egypt
would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, includ-
ing a limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing M&LT debt as a
percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is estimated at 25 percent in
1976 and is expected to decline to 19 percent in 1980. In these circumstances
Egypt may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount of Bank lending in
addition to the IDA assistance which Eygpt merits on the ground of its poverty
and difficult balance of payments position.
Eligibility for Third Window Lending
30.       Egypt is considered eligible for Third Window financing on the basis
of the following considerations:
(a) Poverty: Per capita income was US$310 in 1975.
(b) Performance: Improved economic performance is illustrated by
the recent steps taken (see para 20) to begin the process of
structural change needed in the economy.
(c) Creditworthiness: As the analysis in para 29 above shows,
Egypt may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount of
Bank lending, but must seek to obtain as large a portion as
possible of its external capital requirements on concessional
terms.
(d) Alternative Sources of Finance: Although Egypt has received
a considerable amount of support from a wide range of donors
to meet the foreign exchange needs in 1977, large amounts of
project aid are r'Squired to support Egypt's growing invest-
ment program. The amounts of external assistance on appro-
priate terms needed for this program are likely to exceed
the funds available from donors. In addition to contributing
directly to meeting Egypt's financial requirements, Bank Group
projects provide cofinancing opportunities for other donors,
as in the proposed Second Nile Delta Drainage Project.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
31.       The proposed development credit and loans would be the World Bank's
twenty fifth, twenty sixth and twenty seventh lending operations in Egypt. It
would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to $746.5 million. Annex



- 9 -
II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of April 30, 1977, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
32.       The principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt is
to support its development program through lending for (i) increasing utiliza-
tion of available productive capacity, (ii) projects which would increase pro-
duction and foreign exchange earnings or substitute for imports, particularly
in the key industrial and agricultural sectors, (iii) projects aimed at rehab-
ilitation and expanding infrastructure necessary to facilitate development,
and (iv) selected social sectors, namely population and education. The impact
of Bank/IDA participation in projects has been widened by attracting addi-
tional foreign exchange required for many of these projects from other donors.
Besides the technical assistance included under the Bank/IDA projects, the
Bank is acting as executing agency for a partly UNDP-financed National Power
Sector Survey and for a study which will prepare a Master Plan for Water Re-
source Development and Use (see para. 57 below).    The Bank also extended
limited technical assistance in April 1976 in the preparation of a five-year
development plan.
33.       The projects financed to date have been in support of the strategy
outlined in the preceding paragraph. Preparation of projects for future lend-
ing is following the same line. Projects for regional electrification, the
expansion of the Suez Canal, a loan for industrial imports and an iron ore
engineering project have been appraised and are scheduled for presentation to
the Executive Directors within the next few weeks.    A pipeline of projects
for possible future lending is also being developed, comprising additional
projects in the water supply and sewerage, education and power sectors, and in
agriculture including drainage, and in industry. Projects under study in new
fields include urban and rural development and the tourism sector.
34.       Bank Group disbursements continued in 1976 to represent about 5 per-
cent of Egypt's overall capital inflow. The Bank/IDA share of total external
debt outstanding and disbursed was about 3 percent at the end of 1976. For
the future, the Bank/IDA share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed
(excluding military debts) is estimated to reach about 7 percent in 1980, of
which the Bank share would be about 4 percent. It is estimated that in 1980,
debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 3 percent
of service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
35.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project,
was approved by the Executive Directors in April 1976. IFC is also discuss-
ing several other private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
36.       The Egyptian Agriculture Sector is discussed in detail in the report
"Egyptian Agriculture: Development Problems, Constraints and Alternatives"
(931b-EGT) distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1976. Only
about 2-1/2 percent of Egypt's total land area, or about 2.53 million hectares,



- 10 -
equivalent to about six million feddans (fd), is cultivated. About 5-1/2
million fd in the valley of the Nile and the Delta, known as the "Old Lands,"
is cultivated, as is about half a million fd of reclaimed land, almost all
of which is on the fringes of the Nile Valley and, especially, of the Delta.
However, since two or more crops are grown each year on much of the land,
the cropped area averages about 10.8 million fd. Egypt has virtually no
rainfall, and agriculture is dependent on the Nile: successive dammings have
enabled almost the whole of the Old Lands to benefit from perennial irrigation.
The flat topography and rich soil, and the long agricultural tradition, have
also helped maintain a relatively high level of land productivity, although
there is considerable scope for further increases.
37.       Agriculture accounts for approximately 30 percent of GNP and pro-
cessed and unprocessed agricultural food for some 33 percent of exports. The
sector employs just under half the labor force and remains the dominant sector
of Egypt's economy. Field crops account for about 60 percent of agricultural
output, with cotton, maize, wheat, rice and berseem (a fodder crop) being the
major crops; fruit and vegetables about 15 percent, and livestock about 25
percent. Egypt's main agricultural exports are cotton, rice, and fresh and
processed fruits and vegetables. There are also substantial imports of food
and feed, including wheat and flour (about $825 million in 1975), sugar, feed
grains and meat. Food import costs rose sharply from about $250 million in
1972 to about $1 billion in 1975.
38.       Agricultural output increased at nearly 4 percent per annum between
1955 and 1965; since then it has increased about 2 percent per annum. Growth
from expanding perennial irrigation has been offset by waterlogging, salinity,
and the constraints described below (para. 40). In per capita terms both food
and overall agricultural production have declined resulting in a substantial
increase in basic food imports, while agricultural exports have not risen
appreciably. Government subsidy costs to supply basic foods rose from $100
million in 1972 to $1.25 billion in 1975 and an estimated $900 million in
1976; the major part of the fall is due to the decline in international prices
of these items.
39.       Following land reform legislation in 1952, 1961 and 1969, land owner-
ship in Egypt is more widely distributed: 94 percent of the cultivated land
is in farms of less than 5 fd and approximately 70 percent of the farmers have
an average holding of less than 3 fd. The maximum holding is 50 fd, or 100 fd
for a family, and only 12 percent of the land (owned by 0.3 percent of the
farmers) is in family holdings of more than 50 fd. The three and a quarter
million holdings in the Old Lands are grouped into 4,000 cooperatives, admin-
istered by the General Agricultural Cooperative Society, and the Land Reform
Cooperative Society. This system is still under review, and proposals have
been made for streamlining it and reducing the number of cooperatives to about
700. The Ministry of Agriculture, operating through semi-autonomous companies
which report to it, is responsible for agricultural production, desert land
reclamation and for developing reclaimed land, while the construction and
operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage works are the responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Irrigation.



Policies and Constraints
40.       Since 1965 agricultural planning has been essentially short-term.
Drafts of formal long-term plans have been discussed in the past, and a Five
Year Plan is u.,der preparation as part of the overall plan (para 17). Never-
theless, there are some generally accepted policy goals and guidelines. Agri-
culture should supply much of the domestic food needs, and generate foreign
exchange earnings from exports to help meet Egypt's large import needs. To
this end, and given the policy aim of maintaining low and stable domestic food
prices, the Ministry of Agriculture has maintained close control over agricul-
tural production by regulating the cropping patterns of all farmers, supplying
them with inputs at fixed, subsidized prices, and by buying allocated amounts
of traditional crops at low, controlled prices. This policy is now under re-
view as part of the general review of domestic economic policies. The low,
administered profit margins for traditional field crops make it unprofitable
for the farmer to use the inputs necessary for increased output of traditional
crops. Thus incentives to produce the major crops efficiently are lacking,
while the system of controls over cropping patterns inhibits farmers' reactions
to economic incentives. The Government has therefore made a beginning in re-
viewing its current pricing and production policies, to move towards a system
which alllows and encourages the farmer to react to economic incentives, and to
ensure that these incentives reflect appropriate overall social and economic
priorities. As a first step, procurement prices for cotton have been raised
significantly over the previous level. Also, the Bank is preparing a study
of the price and subsidy policy in Egypt's agricultural sector and we expect
to review the findings of the study later this year with the Government.
41.       Physical, financial and institutional constraints have all contri-
buted to the modest performance of the sector. In the past emphasis was on
easing the physical constraints on agriculture through a program of horizontal
expansion, i.e., desert land reclamation projects. This has been costly and
slow to produce results. In recent years, investment in reclamation (as well
as in large-scale public sector poultry projects) have absorbed most of the
relatively small amount of Government funds allocated to agriculture, at the
expense of investment needs elsewhere in the sector, including provision of
farm inputs, research and extension services, processing and marketing facili-
ties and agricultural credit. A decline in the productivity of the Old Lands,
the basic source of Egyptian agricultural wealth, also points to the need to
allocate considerably larger funds to public investment in the Old Lands.
42.       The sector report (para. 36 above) describes the possibilities of
substantial increases in agricultural output, and the increased returns that
can be obtained from an increased allocation of public investment to the Old
Lands, coupled with removal of agricultural institutional constraints. The
Government is aware of many of the shortcomings described above, particularly
of the physical constraints, and the need to improve agricultural planning.
It is also considering redirecting investment towards increasing the produc-
tivity of existing arable land which is capable of producing substantially
greater and quicker returns. We are continuing our discussion on agricul-
tural policy with the Egyptian authorities.



- 12 -
Drainage in Egypt
43.       Waterlogging and salinity have recently become major, physical
limiting factors to crop production in many areas. Present drainage condi-
tions result from the commissioning of the Aswan High Dam in 1965 and the
resultant shift from basin to perennial irrigation. With the spread of
perennial irrigation, the groundwater levels have been rising over time.
The existing drainage system has not been able to cope with the additional
irrigation water. Moreover, seepage from the new irrigation canals and from
higher fields have contributed to a rise in the groundwater levels in many
areas. The result has been to create waterlogging conditions which have
serious effects on agricultural output. Soil salinity has also increased.
Installation of drainage will reduce waterlogging and allow soil to be
flushed by irrigation, removing salt with the excess water.
44.       In 1960 the Government decided to launch a 30-year program to
improve drainage in about 5 million fd of irrigated land. However, mainly
because of financial and administrative constraints between 1960 and 1970,
only some 500,000 fd in the Delta and 80,000 fd in Upper Egypt were drained.
The table below summarizes the situation with respect to drainage in the
country as a whole, showing the irrigated area and the lands in urgent need
of drainage facilities.
Drainage area of
Irrigated  Priority area   Area drained     Bank/IDA financed
area     for drainage    (as of 1970)     projects to date
('000 feddans)
Lower Egypt    4,000        3,500          500                    950 /1
(approx.)
Upper Egypt    2,000        1,500           80                    800 /2
(approx.)
/1   $26 million Nile Delta Credit, 1970.
/2   $36 million Upper Egypt I Credit, 1973 and $50 million Upper Egypt II
Loan and Credit, 1976.
Previous Bank/IDA Drainage Projects in Egypt
45.       The Bank/IDA have helped finance the Government's drainage program
through three credits and one loan.   The first two projects (Nile Delta I -
Cr. 181-UAR, and Upper Egypt I - Cr. 393-UAR) initially faced a number of
problems namely lack of local funds, shortage of engineers, shortage of cement
for production of cement pipes, poor performance of local contractors and
other managerial difficulties.   This situation became critical after the 1973
October war and little was achieved during 1974. However, since mid-1975
the situation has improved and for the first time, in 1976, the annual field
drainage construction targets of the two projects were met. The total area



- 13 -
provided with field drainage by the end of 1976 was 1,220,000 fd of which
690,000 fd were financed by the Government alone, 480,000 fd under the credit
181-EGT and 50,000 fd under Credit 393-EGT. The third project (Upper Egypt
Drainage II - Loan 1285 and Credit 637-EGT), which the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID) is cofinancing with a US$31 million
loan, became effective on January 31,1977. It is expected that in 1977 the
rate of implementation of field drainage construction will rise to some
170,000 fd in the Nile Delta and to 80,000 fd under the two Upper Egypt
projects. The Bank and IDA are planning to continue their support for the
Government's drainage program. A new drainage project (Nile Delta Drainage
III) covering the remaining 600,000 fd for field drainage not included under
the proposed project is tentatively scheduled for Bank/IDA consideration
during FY1981. Bilateral aid agencies are expected to continue their sup-
port for the sector.
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP)
46.       In 1973 after the appraisal of the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project,
the Government combined the two separate bodies which had been responsible for
drainage in Lower and Upper Egypt, respectively, to form the EPADP which became
responsible for the execution of all drainage works in the country, including
the three Bank/IDA-financed projects. EPADP which is headed by a chairman is
a special agency within the Ministry of Irrigation responsible for carrying
out field investigations, planning, design, procurement, construction, budget-
ing and operation of project accounts. Two vice-chairmen are responsible for
the drainage activities in Upper and Lower Egypt, respectively. Attached to
each vice chairman is a special design officer responsible for detailed design
of project works. Field supervision of drainage works is carried out by the
EPADP directors general in the various governorates. The mechanical department
of EPADP is responsible for supervising the installation of pumping stations
and transmission lines, maintenance workshops, stores and mechanical equipment.
EPADP's performance in 1976 has markedly improved and its staff and facilities
have been expanded to cope with the accelerated pace of the drainage program.
Bilharzia
47.       Bilharzia, or schistosomiasis, a disease caused by a parasite which
passes part of its life cycle in a water snail-host, has been endemic in Egypt
since ancient times, and is the most prevalent and serious endemic disease in
Upper Egypt. Its spread has been intensified by perennial irrigation; over
60 percent of the rural population in some irrigated areas is infected. Past
campaigns to treat snail-infested areas suffered because they were localised
and there was rapid infestation from surrounding areas. In 1968-1971 follow-
ing a successful large-scale operation carried out in a heavily infested area
in Fayoum, financed by the German Government, the incidence of the disease was
reduced from 46 percent in 1968 to 9 percent in 1974. Bilharzia control re-
quires blanket treatment with molluscicide of all canals and drainage ditches
in an area for about three years, together with chemotherapy for infected
people in the area. The canals can thereafter be maintained with small, local
applications of molluscicide. Thus after the three years, costs for main-
tenance control are minimal and can be borne by the Government. The Fayoum



- 14 -
project formed a practical pattern of control which was adopted as the basis
for the current bilharzia control program financed by IDA as a component of
the ongoing Upper Egypt I and II Drainage Projects. This program covers
an area of over 1 million fd (about half the total fertile area of Upper
Egypt), where incidence of bilharzia is amongst the highest in Egypt. It is
the largest bilharzia control program undertaken in the world and benefits
some 4 million people living in the area.
The Project Area
48.       The proposed drainage project area covers a total of 1,000,000
fd in six governorates in the east, west and central part of the Nile Delta
within 25 km of the Mediterranean in the north, to about 150 km from the
coast at the southernmost limit of the project (see map). When supplied with
irrigation water and adequate drainage facilities, most of the lands in the
Nile Delta can support good crops of cotton, wheat, maize, rice, vegetables,
beans, Egyptian clover and some fruits. However, the nature of the soils,
irrigation practices and lack of adequate drainage facilities have brought
about waterlogging and salinity problems that are seriously affecting crop
production. Thus, the 1972-75 average yields on those soils seriously suf-
fering from waterlogging and salinity show as much as a 46 percent reduction
in yield for maize, 50 percent for cotton and wheat, and 30 percent for rice,
as compared to soils in the same area less affected at that time. Without
adequate drainage facilities, it has been estimated that average crop yields
in the project area would decline by at least an overall 30 percent over the
next 35 years. Within the project area, there are an estimated 295,000 farm
families or some 1.6 million people. At present more than half of the in-
habitants in the project area are estimated to have incomes below the coun-
try's relative poverty level, estimated to be about $60 per capita.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
49.       The project forms part of the continuing program of the Government
to install drainage works in the entire irrigated land in Egypt and covers
lands identified by the Ministries of Agriculture and Irrigation as being areas
in the Nile Delta having the most urgent need for drainage.    It was prepared
by EPADP in September 1976 and appraised by the Association and the Bank in
October 1976.   Negotiations were held in Washington from April 4 to 8, 1977.
The Egyptian Government was represented by Mr. S. Koraiem, Ministry of Economy
and Economic Cooperation. An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Nile
Delta Drainage II Project" (No. 1451-EGT, dated May 5, 1977) is being distri-
buted separately, a Credit/Loan and Project Summary is attached. Maps of
Egypt and of the proposed project area are also attached.
Project Objectives and Description
50.       The objectives of this project are:



- 15-
(a) to prevent land productivity from declining on one
million fd in the Nile Delta by constructing pumping
stations and remodelling the main drainage system;
(b) to increase productivity on about 400,000 fd out of
the one million by installing field drains;
(c) to expand the bilharzia control program financed under
the two ongoing Upper Egypt Drainage Projects by 1,200,000
fd thereby instituting a control program over the entire
cultivated area from Giza to the Aswan High Dam; and
(d) to cover additional foreign exchange expenditures not covered
by UNDP under a UNDP-financed study to draw up a "Master Plan
for Water Resource Development and Use" for which the Bank
is acting as executing agency.
Drainage Components
51.       The project drainage works would consist of:
(a) construction of four new drainage pumping stations,
including electric transmission lines;
(b) replacement of ten obsolete pumping units in two
existing drainage pumping stations;
(c) deepening and widening of 1,565 km of existing open
main drains serving an area of 810,000 fd and extension
or reconstruction of existing structures;
(d) installation of covered field drains and collectors in
an area of 400,000 fd.
52.       Of the total project area of 1,000,000 fd, the discharge effluent
from 400,000 fd will be evacuated into the Nile or into main open drains by
gravity. The effluent from the remaining 600,000 fd will be evacuated through
seven existing and four proposed new pumping stations. Electric transmission
lines of 19 km length in total will connect the four new stations to the
national grid.
53.       The open main and branch drains affecting 810,000 fd would be
widened and deepened in order to lower further the groundwater and to pro-
vide free-fall discharge from the pipe collectors of the field drainage
system. As part of the work, existing bridges, syphons, flumes and other
structures would have to be either expanded or rebuilt.
54.       Field drains would be installed on 400,000 fd of the project area,
giving priority to areas suffering severely from waterlogging and salinity.
As in the most recent drainage project (Ln. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT), poly-
vinyl chloride (PVC) corrugated pipes would be used in 90 percent of the



- 16 -
area which is field drained and cultivated with field crops. The PVC pipes
would be manufactured locally out of imported resin powder in two plants
with a capacity of 1,000 m/hour; these plants also would be imported. PVC
pipes have been found to be more suitable for field drainage than the cement
pipes used in the past. They are easier to transport and can be laid more
quickly by machines thus lowering cost per fd drained. Because of the high
rate of construction proposed for field drainage, more labor-intensive methods
are not appropriate. Also, there is a general shortage of qualified laborers
in the construction industry and a shortage of cement. In the remaining 10
percent of the project area to be field drained and which is cultivated with
orchards, cement pipes would still be used for field drains since the pipes
have to be laid manually.
55.       Project implementation during the first two years will consist
mainly of constructing pumping stations and remodeling of existing open
drains, since covered field drains cannot be installed until this work is
done. EPADP and its contractors will concentrate on the installation of field
drainage in the remaining area of 470,000 fd under the Nile Delta I Project.
Field drainage under the proposed project will commence at the beginning of
1980. EPADP has the capacity to undertake this work at the required implemen-
tation rate. With the provision of additional equipment under the Upper Egypt
Drainage II project and with the introduction of PVC pipes and foreign con-
tractors for field drainage installation, it is expected that by 1978 the
annual implementation capacity will have increased for remodelling to 400,000
fd and for field drainage to 340,000 fd. EPADP will be supported by three
full-time consultants and some short-term specialists to provide additional
advice and assistance in using PVC pipes for field drainage and for training
local staff in the new techniques involved. Funds have been provided for this
purpose and are still available under the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project.
Bilharzia Control Component
56.       The bilharzia control program (see para. 47 above) will be further
extended under the proposed project to cover an additional area of 1,200,000
fd between Asyut and the Aswan High Dam with a total population of about
5 million people and would thus complete the bilharzia control program in
Upper Egypt. Provision of molluscicide, drugs for chemotherapy and equipment
is included under the proposed project.
Master Plan for Water Resources
57.       The Bank is executing agency for a UNDP-financed project to draw up
a "Master Plan for Water Resource Development and Use." The relevant project
document was signed on January 16, 1977. The project will provide for a
methodological study of water-related problems in Egypt. It will generate
optimal required investment programs taking into account the predicted demand
patterns of the various sectors, and the changes which will be imposed by
increasing population pressures and increasing industrialization of what is
predominantly an agricultural economy while at the same time seeking to
intensify agricultural production. UNDP would contribute $1,250,000 to the
project which is insufficient to cover the full foreign exchange costs of
the study. Therefore, $850,000 has been included under the proposed drainage



- 17 -
project which would be used to cover the additional foreign exchange expendi-
tures which otherwise would have had to be borne by the Government. The Gov-
ernment will bear all the local costs of the study estimated at LE 640,500
of which LE 232,200 is in cash and LE 408,300 in kind.
Project Execution
58.       EPADP (para. 46) would be responsible for execution of the drainage
elements of the project. In order to ensure that the installation of covered
drains is not held up by delays in award of contracts for pumping stations
and for remodelling of open drains, EPADP has agreed that timely awards of
contracts for open drains and for the pumping stations will be made (Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement (PA)). Procurement would be the responsibility
of the Administration and Finance Department of EPADP. An ad hoc committee
composed of the chairman, the responsible regional vice-chairman and the head
of the Technical Office of EPADP would approve specifications and evaluate
bids. EPADP agreed that both a qualified and experienced chairman of EPADP
and a vice-chairman for Lower Egypt would continue to serve at all times and
on a full-time basis (Section 3.01(b)(ii) PA).
59.       Soil studies and collection of data on crop yields would be under-
taken by the Ministry of Agriculture. The participation of the Extension
Service of the Ministry of Agriculture in the drainage program and for im-
proving irrigation practices is essential. In order to ensure that extension
agents communicate more effectively with farmers on the subject of drainage
and irrigation and collaborate with the drainage maintenance units to assure
farmers' cooperation, the Government agreed to ensure a continued adequate
coordination between the Extension Service and EPADP and to continue to main-
tain coordinating committees at national, governorate, and district levels
(Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
60.       The Ministry of Health would be responsible for the planning, execu-
tion, and supervison of the bilharzia control program of which the Bank would
finance the foreign exchange cost. This new program would be in addition to
the ongoing program now in force under the Upper Egypt Drainage I and II Proj-
ects, and would have the same program director and key personnel. A plan of
operation acceptable to the Bank/IDA will be prepared by the Ministry of
Health for the bilharzia control program under the proposed project. The
Government agreed to continue to employ a qualified and experienced program
director (Section 3.08, DCA). The application of molluscicide would be
closely supervised by the Snail Control Department of the same ministry. The
chemotherapy treatment of infected persons would be conducted by the Ministry
of Health as well as all bioassay checks and chemical analyses. The Government
agreed to maintain in its Ministry of Health a supervision and evaluation unit,
responsible for overall supervision of the program, and for collecting data on
control effectiveness (Section 3.10, DCA). After completion of the program,
the irrigation and drainage canals can be maintained snail-free with a small
application of molluscicide about once or twice a year. The Government agreed
to continue the bilharzia control program and provide adequate funds for it
until December 31, 1997 (Section 3.11, DCA).



- 18 -
Operation and Maintenance of Drainage Works
61.       As in previous drainage projects, the contractors would be respon-
sible for the maintenance of the pumping stations until final acceptance by
EPADP, which normally occurs one year after completion. Following acceptance,
the stations would be handed over to the Maintenance Department of the Ministry
of Irrigation. Maintenance of open drains would be the responsibility of the
same Department. Field drainage works would be maintained for one year after
completion by the contractors. After formal acceptance by EPADP, field drain-
age works would be maintained by EPADP. EPADP agreed that special field
drainage maintenance units would be established in the project area and that
the necessary funds, staff, equipment and transportation facilities for main-
tenance of field drainage works would be provided (Section 2.01(b), PA).
Technical Assistance. Training and Staff Requirements
62.       Contractors of PVC pipe-making plants, and suppliers of pumping
station and drainage equipment would be required to train the local staff
in the operation, maintenance and repair of their equipment. In order to
strengthen its technical services to carry out the project, EPADP agreed
to implement a training program to train engineers and technicians of the
project in modern drainage practices, and operators and mechanics in the
proper operation and maintenance of the project equipment (Section 3.03, PA).
No funds are provided under the project for training abroad, as various
bilateral aid programs provide financing for this purpose.
63.       Although in the past shortage of engineering staff has been a
problem, the supply of engineers has now increased, following the reduction
in military needs for the same type of personnel. A considerable amount of
technicians-supervisors will be made available to EPADP from among graduates
of the recently established Technical Institute for Survey. Thus recruiting
new staff will be easier than in the past. In addition, EPAPD pays to its
staff a special field allowance plus an annual bonus to attract them to work
in the Authority. In order to attract and retain qualified and experienced
personnel, EPAPD agreed to continue its existing policy for incentives to
staff (Section 3.01(b)(i), PA).
64.       The proposed project would also provide funds for visual aid equip-
ment and supplies as well as transportation facilities for the extension
service of the Ministry of Agriculture. Consultant services for the extension
service are already being provided for by USAID and by FAO.
Project Costs and Financing
65.       The total project cost, 1/ including contingencies, is estimated
on the basis of end-1976 contract prices to be $207.0 million, excluding cus-
toms duties. The foreign exchange component of the project cost is estimated
at $90.0 million. Details of the project costs are given in the Credit/Loan
and Project Summary.
1/   All costs have been calculated on the basis of a parallel market rate
equalling LE 1 = $1.50.



- 19 -
66.       The Egyptian Government has requested KfW to provide financing for
equipment and raw material for production of PVC pipes, and the foreign ex-
change cost for operation and maintenance of the pipe production plants, esti-
mated to cost some $24 million. If the agreement with KfW has not become
effective by Dec-mber 31, 1977 or a subsequent date agreed upon with the Bank/
IDA, a condition of default would exist under the loans/credit unless the Gov-
ernment satisfies the Bank/IDA that it can secure the additional funds re-
quired from other sources (Section 5.01(c), DCA). The proposed World Bank
financing of $66 million would cover the foreign exchange cost of equipment
and civil works for drainage ($54.35 million), equipment for the Agricultural
Extension Service ($0.4 million), equipment and molluscicides for extension
of the bilharzia control program ($10.4 million), and $0.85 million for the
partly UNDP-financed Master Plan for Water Resource Development and Use. The
local currency requirements of about $117 million would be provided by the
Government. The Government agreed to establish a special fund under this
project to serve the project as well as the previously Bank/IDA-financed drain-
age projects to help overcome difficulties experienced in the past in obtain-
ing a timely allocation of local funds. The Government will replenish the
special fund at monthly intervals to a level equivalent to the estimated local
expenditures during the following three month period. The establishment of
such a special fund would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections 3.06 and
6.01(d), DCA).
Procurement
67.       Equipment and materials for project construction, operation and
maintenance estimated to total about $10.4 million 1/ would be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordance with World Bank guidelines.
Domestic bids would be allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent or the
actual customs duty, whichever is lower. For purposes of bid comparison, the
parallel market exchange rate will be applied. Procurement of non-proprietary
equipment costing less than $10,000 each would be exempted from international
competitive bidding. Contracts may be awarded to reliable suppliers after
having obtained price quotations from at least three such suppliers. The
aggregate cost of such items would not exceed $150,000. Also, proprietary
equipment may be purchased off-the-shelf from reliable suppliers. The aggre-
gate cost of such items would also not exceed $150,000. Molluscicide and
drugs for chemotheraphy for bilharzia estimated to cost $8.9 million would
also be exempted from international competitive bidding. They would be
procured from the one manufacturer (in West Germany) who is known to produce
both these products and from a licensee (in the US) who is known to produce
the molluscicide. The products of the manufacturer, which have been tested
in the project area, have been accepted by WHO and have proven to be the most
effective ones.
68.       Field drainage with PVC pipes and pumping stations would be imple-
mented under civil works contracts estimated at $31.2 million awarded through
international competitive bidding following World Bank guidelines for procure-
ment. Contracts for civil works for construction of structures in open drains,
buildings, and installation of field drains in orchards with cement pipes,
estimated to total about $9.4 million, and which are being financed by IDA and
1/   Excluding physical contingencies.



- 20 -
the Bank, would be procured on the basis of local competition, according to
local procedures, which are satisfactory. These small and varied works, scat-
tered throughout the project area, and planned to be implemented during the
whole project construction period, are not suitable for international competi-
tion. They would be effectively implemented by local private contractors,
whose performance in the past has proven to be adequate. The remaining civil
works contracts (earthworks) for remodelling of open drains will be financed
by the Government and procured on the basis of local procedures.
69.       Procurement for the production of PVC plastic pipes will be in
accordance with the agreement between KfW and the Government.
Disbursement
70.       The IDA Credit and Bank Loan would be disbursed as follows:
-    Equipment and materials:   100 percent of the foreign exchange
costs of imported goods, or 100 percent of ex-factory cost if
locally manufactured, or 80 percent of local cost if imported
but locally procured.
-    Civil works:  100 percent of foreign expenditures and
40 percent of local expenditures, representing their
foreign component.
-    100 percent of foreign expenditures for the Master Plan
for Water Resource Development and Use, representing
the $850,000 share of the Bank/IDA to the UNDP-financed
study.
IDA funds will be disbursed prior to the pro-rata disbursement of the Bank and
Third Window funds.
Accounting and Audit
71.       A cost accounting system was to be established by EPADP under the
previous IDA/Bank-financed drainage projects. This system is now being imple-
mented. EPADP will maintain this cost accounting system. EPADP will also
establish and maintain separate project accounts for the drainage works and
will submit to IDA and the Bank copies of audit reports for each calendar
year, within six months of closing the yearly Government accounts. The audit
will be carried out by the Egyptian Central Auditing Organization.
Monitoring
72.       Under the Upper Egypt Drainage II Project (Ln. 1285 and Cr. 637-EGT)
EPADP agreed to initiate an evaluation of the effect of drainage works already
completed under the Nile Delta I and Upper Egypt Drainage I Projects. The
relevant evaluation reports are to be completed by June 30, 1978 and June 30,
1979, respectively. In order to also monitor and evaluate drainage works
financed under the Upper Egypt Drainage II Project, and the proposed Nile
Delta Drainage II Project, EPADP agreed to present an interim analysis of



- 21 -
these two projects by June 1981 and June 1983, respectively, and the evalua-
tion report by June 1982 and June 1984, respectively. Upon completion of the
respective final evaluation reports, EPADP will continue to monitor all the
above drainage projects for an additional six years (Section 2.06, PA).
Cost Recovery
73.       As provided by law and being provided for under the ongoing drainage
projects, the capital costs of installing field drains, plus a 10 percent
administrative charge, would be recovered from beneficiaries, by annual in-
stallments over a period of not more than 20 years, free of interest (Section
3.05, DCA). Since the law does not specifically provide for any charges to be
paid for the maintenance of field drainage systems, a ministerial decree pro-
viding for the full recovery for this and the other on-going Bank/IDA-financed
drainage projects has been issued. Under the Upper Egypt Drainage II Project,
EPADP agreed to conduct a socioeconomic study within the project area to deter-
mine the ability of beneficiaries to pay for the full cost of the field drain-
age investments, including the opportunity cost of capital for which farmers
are presently not charged. EPADP agreed to complete this study and to extend
it to the project area under the proposed project and to submit this study to
the Bank and IDA by June 30, 1978, for review and comments (Section 2.07, PA).
The Government agreed to implement mutually acceptable recommendations of the
study (Section 3.12, DCA).
Benefits and Justification
74.       The project would bring about a substantial increase in agricultural
production on the 400,000 fd that would be field drained and on 30,000 fd
located along both sides of the remodelled open drains. At full development,
yield increases due to the project are expected to stabilize at 12 to 25 per-
cent above present levels. These increases would produce a stream of benefits
whose incremental net economic value is estimated to be some $33 million per
year. The additional production would provide for increased exports in the
case of cotton and vegetables or reduced imports in the case of other products
absorbed by the local market. In addition, the project would prevent decline
of crop yields on 1 million fd which would otherwise drop at least 30 percent
over the next 35 years.
75.       The drainage component will benefit about 295,000 farm families or
about 1.6 million persons, occupying small farms, more than half of whom have
annual incomes of below the $60 per capita, i.e., the relative poverty level.
At full development of the project (three years after installation of drainage
structures for any individual farmer), the annual net return of a farmer for
a 3 fd owner-operated holding would have increased from $584 to about $708
or 21 percent, while for a 1 fd tenant holding the net return would have
increased from $167 to $202 or 21 percent. Since without the project crop
yields and incomes would decline, these increases understate the total bene-
fits accruing to farmers as a result of the drainage works. Compared to the
situation without the project at year 10, the annual net return will have
increased in both cases by more than 40 percent.



- 22 -
76.       Based on the above benefits and a 35-year project life, the econ-
omic rate of return is estimated to be 23 percent, using the parallel market
rate for foreign exchange. This rate of return is based on conservative
assumptions as incremental production and prevented yield decreases of only
the major food and export crops, wheat, maize, rice, and cotton, have been
included in the calculation. Additional benefits are certain to accrue from
incremental production and prevented yield decreases of vegetables, fruits,
and berseem, the yields of which are expected to react to improved drainage
similarly to the mentioned major crops. The rate of return has been tested
against adverse developments affecting production and investment costs. Thus,
with a cost increase of 25 percent and a simultaneous decrease in production
of 25 percent, the project would still yield a rate of return of 15.3 percent.
77.       During the five-year implementation period the project would create
demand for labor totaling 58,000 man-years. From year 6 onwards the annual
labor demand for operation and maintenance would be 2,310 man-years. At full
development, seasonal on-farm labor requirements would have increased by 8
percent or 1.5 million man-days annually. This additional on-farm labor would
mainly be required during harvest periods, which, however, due to multiple
cropping, would be spread over the year.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Association, the draft Loan Agreements between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
the Bank and the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects, the Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, the Reports of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and the texts of three draft Resolutions approving the proposed credit and
loans are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
79.       Features of the draft Development Credit, Loan and Project Agree-
ments of special interest are listed in Section III of Annex III.
80.       An additional condition of effectiveness will be the establishment
of a "special fund" for the previous and proposed IDA/Bank-financed drainage
projects (para. 66).
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit and loans would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank and with the estab-
lished criteria for Third Window Loans.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit and loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 19, 1977






a.                                                                     I~~~ et efw mC.a.
ama-     ab  "a 
am            a  td  ama    cm  -  me          ..a-C Sft  _.
It     ItI       mtt   -t                          m  -  Stl
= SO"  "O  .0  OfteMew  vft~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 w~   S
40  to        O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  0 Mft    Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-l                                                     to   mSo l
4 ~~~~~~~~1a   4S
C     cc     m..  a a -bo**S  *-  .  acI at.I,.   a.   a:Ica  ctcc  a  cc  at  cc It  a em
3  m@                a                  ma-rn  -                           m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m l  e1
a                                     a ~~~~~~~~~tm41-                                        a
44   1
mamma  aa~~~~~ -  c-in  a-  mm  cm.-~~~ewl  am  acm  a  a   m a  . a a  a m 
me.                                  oh~~~~amma             we-  OR  a-  -  ftA-  a     a  a 
4a a                                                                                      Z~~~~~~~~~ aa - 
za~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
j  z  1.                          4m~~~m  . m. -
-Cc   macca~~~G.  me  . . a-  I  Zm  . aj I  .1  -  c   m.c         a    . .a a   a
a-e-mma i m-rt       *-.: ma-in             am   a         a.                  "Zaa a   m
a%, m      a          am   am                mm    .        -        I.4  in  a m 
-     ;±      a,  :: a   a                        a                                  Z
C3a  a  Ca  ma-ama                               ama  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w"a~m 0,62cle aa  a  c *a aI,  e-it
am...  WC~~~~~ a  am  a-   .  ca-c.:_ .ma.   __  U...  in   . " a  m   - a  -cam
ga   m~ ~~ ~ ma1      tam a   amcma-aa                aaa   w,  a    ...O-C -Aa  sr 4r mae  a  cva
me  5-    a   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~z         a                  ca-ran            '
a   am                                                                      ma-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  I La m- "xe s
a', .  za  7   c  n. . .      .  a-.                            c
Me      Z a-c- a. w.j             me  f         a &  2n  aw. a                        -   m
SI  a  .1Re  a 4    a        a0-    '--0  -mm-   --    0   a-  a                       am.- :a
a or   a.-   a          13~~~~~~~~~olo  a I s-a mamm a.ia   m .Z 13  0  G   E  -:2w0   nRea  a  6-
ala   a  ~~~~~~-a-mai  aO-  a  a~  a.  amo a  a.Ja.a  i0   a 3   a a   0,a-
*i  C -  a  Se-a-am a; MOO  S-MM  - - la  mm  a Na     -C * - V  2  a  m  a   ca  u-l"ao- en
a- e3  .  %~~~~~-.A  a- n  0  -       m m a  &    aa V.        a  rn-iaZ-  -  a- 6"Mam  a--~am
loa      - 81  0o   40 5  a      - IL-     a            a-  ema am .a-       a o.Nl           mm..
aB   -   i   -a. mm- --     m  - aa  a      .    r r a     l.a-m  maN       saa--   -i  -a     ma a
3j5  3  Ca- : a-  ----- 1b      - 4   a       Zm      26c0 UU2 0 a       ml  ORi-.     aaa    .
a a     -.. ma.a   -     me   a   a   al   Com-ma4.- - ma N ame   0  za..    ox ram   a    lm



Page 2 of 4s Page
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any'year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, end for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 end 1975.
*4 Spain's succeasful diversification of ita economic structure, derree of industrialisation end development of touriam makes it an appropriate
"objective' country.
mm1960           /a  1950-551     A    Excluding population of saiLU agglonerationa in the frontier districts;          &   Figures relate to persons
six yearn end over, excluding nomad population;        ag  1961a-65;    /o   1962;    Zt   Including "asistaLnt nuresa and
midwiveal     I&  196D-621     lb   Urban only.
190 /    l966j    /b   Relatea to 12-6, yearn of age;       /c  Registered, not nil practioing in thle country.
MOST RZCRNT ESTIM       s.  /a  As percentage of employment;          N ay 1973;    /    1972;    4g   Registered, not all practicing in the
country;     /a  1971j     11  1969-71 average;          1976, percentage of population.
THILXPIES        97      /   As    percentage of employment;      /b   Inside.
Tugxgx    1970     /   Rocludes 17 Eastern provinces;       /b  1965-67;     /c   ReLtic of population under 15 and 65 and over to lAbor force 15 years
end over;     /cg 15 years and over excludes unemployed;        /a  Registered only;      IL  Dapoaable income;       &    Including
assistant nurses ard midwives;       &3  1961a-66j    L    Persons six yearn and over who tell the census taLkers that they can
read end write.
SPAIN           I'V          REnploynent office estimate;      /b  Registered, not nil practicing in thle country.
R7, April 25, 1977
oZXpTI'rONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOR
Lend Are. (thou ko.n                                                                     PoPulation Per nursing person - Population divided by umbahr of practicing
Total -Total surfacs ares conprisiog lend area ad inland waters.                           ml. and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified' nurses, end
Axcic. -Mont ..e..nt ssti-,ts of agricultural area used tempo..arily or Pmr.-              atailiary p.rersmoal with tr-ining or experience.
nently for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fall-w                  Population Pear hospital bad - Population divded by -eber of hospital beds
savalable in public end privats general and specialized hospital end
GNP Per c.pita (US$) C- GPeP- Capita estimates at currant market prices,                   rehabilitation rantrs; excludes nursieg homes and nstsblishmeots for
calculated by name conversion method aso World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);               cus todial and preventive rare.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                              Per capita supply of caloriss (7 of r-suirenotets) - Computed from energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital statistic,                                                            available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less exporte, and
Pp.olation (mid-year million)    A. of July first,  if not availeble, -avrage              changen insatock; net supplies sxcluds animal feed, seeds., quaetitiea used
of two end-year estimates. 1,)60, 1970 and 1975 date,                                    in fond processsing end Inesea in distribution; requirements were estimated
by FAO based om physiological needs for norma activity and health coneid-
Population d...ity -par square ho - Mid-y.ar population per square kilometer               ering eniromesenta1 temperature, body wasights, age and en. distributions of
(100 hectares) of total area,                                                            population, and .11osing 107. for waste at household lnvel.
Population density- per square ho of asric. land - Computed an above for                 Per capita supply of protein (grams, per day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land mnly.                                                                  net supply of food per day; eat supply of food is defimed asa abov; require-
ma.ts f. or al countries established by USDA Economic geseasrh Servi-es
Vital taetistics                                                                           provide for a mInismu allowane of 60 eras of total protein per day, ad
Cr.ds birth rate ear thousand. average - Annual live births per thousand of                20 gras. of animal and polses protein, of which 10 gras should be anhoa1
mid-year population; tee-year arithmnetic averages ending in 1960 anod 1970,             protein; those standards are iower then those of 75 grams of total protein
and five-year averass ending in 1975 for moot rscent estimate,                           and 23 geaseo of animal protein xs am average for the wsrld, proposed by~ FAO
Crude dssth rate par thousend. average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year            in the Third World Pond Survey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-             Per capita protein supply from anial and pulas - Protein supply of food
year avrag    ending in 1975 for nost recent eatimats.                                   derived from animals ad pulse. is grasn per day.
Inatmrai ty rate f/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age          Death rate (/thoul at.. 1-4 - Annua   deethe per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live births,                                                                years,' to children in thie age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life eatnctac    at bith fyral - Average cmbser of yearsr of life rmiming at               malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1971 for develop-
ing countrims.                                                                         Ed-ction
irons reproduction rate - Aerage somber of live daughters a woman will bear              Adjusted enrol lment ratio - primary school - Enrollent of all agea as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she seperiences preaent age-specific                cetage of pria:ry school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending is 1960, 1970 and 1971                but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; far countries with
for developing countries.                                                                universe1 education, enrollment may esceed 1007. since s-     pupils aer bel-
Population growth rate (7.) - total - Compoud annual grovth rates of mid-year              or aboew the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-71.                                           Adjusted enrollmet ratio-    secondary sshol - Computed as abova; secondary
Pouato  rowth rate (7.) - urban - Computed like growth rat  of total                 education requires at least four yeas of appround primery instmuctism;
population; different definitions of urban aroe. may affect comparability of             provides general, vo..ational or teacher traisig instruntiasm for pupils
dsta among ecountries,                                                                   of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondencecou..rses are generally excluded.
Urban population C7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different           Y"ear  of schoolima erovided (first and second 1.vals) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas may affect cpomprability of data amnog countriesa.            schoolixg; at secanary level, vocational instruction my be pertially or
completely excluded.
Age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yearn), working-age (15-64 years),              Voncational enrollment (. of secondary) - Vocational imetitutiaus in-lude
a:nd retired (65 yaare asd over) as percentages of mid-ye.r population.                   technical, industrial or other programs which operate indspandently or Ca
Aedependency ratio - gatic of population under 1) and 61 and over to those               departments of ...condery institutions.
of ages 1) through 64.                                                                 Adult literacy rats (7.) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
Economic dep.ndency r.tio - Retia of population under 1) and A5 and over to                centage of total adult population aged 15 years ad over.
the labor forc  in age group of 15-64 years.
Faily piannit    - acpto2trs (oteolative. thou) - Cuoulativ snmber of acceaptors         Hous ing
of birth-control devic    under aus pices of national fatly planning progra            Prersns par room (urban; - Aver..age somber of persons per roo  in oncupied
since inception                                                                           onvetional dwelling, in urban ares.,. dwellings e.ccide non-permanent
Family pla...iin  - users (72 of married women) - Percentages of married womn of           atructures and unoncupled partn.
child-hearing age (11-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married           Occupied dweIlinee without Pplead water (2) - Occu pied conventiona1 dwellings
.omen fi, san ago grop                                                                   in urban smd rural .arse without inside or outside piped water facilities
an percentage of all ocoupied dwellings.
E.p1ovnent                                                                               ACcs   to el-ctricity (7 of all dwalliXgs) - Conentional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Econoically active persons. including armed                 electricity in living quarters as percent of tcta1 dwellimga in urben and
force  and unemployed but secluding housewives. e-dntst, etc.    definitions             rural areas.
in variou ..ou.ntrino are not comparable.                                              Rural dwellings connected to electricity (.    Computed as above for -rura
Labor force in agriculture (2) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,           deellings only.
hosting and fishing) as percentage of total labor forc..
Un-ploy.d (7. of labor force)   P- ueployed are unually defined as persone who           Consonotiou
are able and willing to tale aJob, out of a Job on a given day, renained out           Radio receivers (ear thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking worb for a epeified ninimun period not e..ceeding one              tm general public per thousand of population; excludsa unlicenseBd receivere
veek; may not be coparable between countri.e due to different definitiona                in countries and Le years when registration of radio seta was in effect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sempls             data for recen.t years my not be comperable since most countries abelished
survys, compulsory unemployment isuac.licensing.
Pan.angar cars (pear thou nop) - Passenger cars comprise wator cars esating
Im-m   di-tribution- Pr ...tags of private in-om    (both in cash and kind)               le.a than aight persons; secludes asbulencas, hearses and military
received by richest 17.. richest 207.. poorest 207.. and pooresi 407. of house-          vehicles.
holds.                                                                                 Electricity (kwh/yr pear cap) - Annual cansmption of industrial, commercial.
public and Private elantricity is kilmowtt hours per capita, generally
Dietribution of land ownership - P-rentages of land owned by wealthiest 107.               based on production data, without allowance for losses in grids but allow-
and poorest 107. of land owners,                                                         tog far Imports and eaporta of siactritity.
Newsprint (be/yr pear use) - Per .apit. annual caneomption is kilogram
Health and Nutrition                                                                       estimated from domstin production plus met imports of newsprint.
Ppoplation par physician - Population divided by n,uber of practicing
phyatalane qualified from a medical school at university isvol.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
EGYPT
BCOSOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in milltons of US dollars)
Actual              Eat.        Projected      1973-  1975-
1973      1974     1975     1976         1980         1975   1980         1973  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTSI/                                        (Constant 1975 Prices)               Ava;age Annual
Growth RtgAt      As Percent of CDY
Gross Domestic Product                   10,517    10.849  11,912  12,636            16,288     6.3     6.4           99   100    99
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)                57       365    ..        82               113      ..                   +1    .,    +1
Gross Domestic Income                    10,574    11,214   11,912  12,718           16,401     6.1     T!t          100   100   100
imports(incl. non-factor services)      -2,864    -4,052   -4,989  -3,904            -5,970    32.0     3.6           27    42    36
Exports (incl. non-factor services)       1,950    2.230    2.198   2.512             4.226     6.2    14.2           1l    19    26
Resource Gap                              -914    -1,822   -2,791  -1,392            -1,744    75.0    -9.0            9    23    10
Consuaption Expenditures                 10,115    10,887  11,836  11,806            14,179     8.2     3.7           96    99    86
investsent Expenditures (tncl. stocks)   1,373     2,149    2,867   2,304             3,966    44.0     6.7           13    24    24
Domestic Savings                           459       327       76     912             2,222   -60.0    95.0            4     1    14
MERCRAINDISE TRADE                        Annual Data at Current Prices                                          AA Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                             291      480      728     550                                             17    17
Fuels and intermediate goods             633      1,655   2,057   1,566                                             38    48
Cnn-,umtion Goods                        740      1.340   1.54    1.349                                             45  _35
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)      1,664    3,475    4,329   3,465                                            100   100
Exports
Agricultural Products                    423       857      522     490                                             42    33
Industrial Goods                         580       817    1.046   1 115                                             58    67
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)      1,003     1,674   1,568   1,605                                            100   100
Travel                                    156      266      332     383
Suez Canal                                ..                 85     308
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1975 - 100
Export Price Index                        68       122      100     109
Import Price Index                        67        95      100     105
Terms of Trade Index                      101      128      100     103
Exports Volume Index                      94        88      100     114
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                            As Percent of Total
Agriculture                               33        34       33      31
Industry, Electricity & Construction      24        26       28      28
Services                                  43        40       39      41
Total                                    100      100      100     100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                 1977
Current Prices            Budgeted                           As Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                       3,142    3,648    4,593   5,673    7,821                                 30     39
Current Expenditures                   2.786    3.487    5.056   5.238    6.121                                 26     42
Budgetary Savings                       356       161     -463     435    1,700                                  4     .3
Public Sector Investment               1,141    1,446    2,337   2,196    3,502                                 11     20
CURRENT EXPENDITUIRES DETAILS                                      Actual Prelim.               DETAIL ON                At 1975 P and ER
(AS X of Total Current Expanditures)                1973    1974     1975     1976             PUBLIC SECTOR          Draft Plan
Defenae                                             39.1    24.8     29.721   28,3-/           IRVE8TISNT PROGRAM      (1976-80)      % of Total
Subsidies                                           17.1    35.8     36.2     30.5             Agriculture              1,997             10
General Services                                    19.6    17.6     16.6     21.3             Industry and Mining      4,792             24
Economic Services                                   24.2    21.8     17.5     19.8             Services                 3,993             20
Total Current Expenditures                         100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0             Transport and com-
nuuications (Inc. Suez) 5,191             26
Oth,er                   3.993             20
Total Expenditures      19,966           100
SELECTED INDICATORS                                         1973-    1975-
1975     1980
Average ICOR                                                2.08     3 .663
Import Elasticity                                           3.81     0.75
LABOR FORCE AND
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                          Total Labor Force                   Value dded Per Worker iCurrent Prices)
In Millions          % of o9tal                    n U8 Dollars         Ave"
1973     1975       1973    1975 0                 1973    1975     1973    1975
Agriculture                                        4.2      4.2        47    44.2                     624     858      67    68.8
Industry                                           1.2      1.2        13    12.6                   1,557   2,087     167   167.4
Service 4/                                         3.6      4.1        40    43.2                     615   1J,74      66   110.2
Total                                              9.0      9.5       100   100.0                     932   1,2Y47    100   100.0
V/ Incorporat.ng revised GDP estimates by the Ministry of Planning December 1976.
i/ Includes reconstruction expenditures.
3/ Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced in 1976. For the period 1977-80,
import elasticity is estimated at 1.00.
4/ Includes distribution, electricity and construction sectors.



ANNEX I
EGYPT                            Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMZNTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual              Est.
1973      1974      1975     1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                                  1,003      1,674     1,568   1,605
Import of Goods, c.i.f./                                -1.664    -3,475     -4,329  -3,465
Trade Balance                                           -661    -1,801     -2,761  -1,860
Service Receiptsl'                                         421       710      1,082   1,480
Service Payments                                          -414      -541       -801  -1,010
Service Balance                                            7       169        281     470
A.   Deficit on Goods and Services                           -654    -1.632     -2,480  -1,390
B.   Amortization of LMT Debt                                -407      -631       -568    -545
(of which suppliers' credits)                           (277)    (-285)    (-280)  (-300)
C.   Net Reduction in Short-term Debt                         --        --        -264     --
D.   Reductions of- Balances on Bilateral Accounts           -113       -28       -241    -200
E.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                         -1,174    -2,291     -3,553  -2,135
F.   Supply of Funds                                        1,290     2,119      3,573   2,135
Private unrequited transfers                               6        42         91      65
Official grants                                          725     1,264        988     635
Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt               --        --        --       --
Other MLT loans                                          170        199       583     665
Suppliers' credits                                       160       273       363      420
MLT deposits/loans CBE                                   --           5     1,580     470
Foreign investment                                       --          7         20      50
Net increase in short-term commercial bank credits       352       585        --      235
Other monetary movements, net 2/                        -123      -256       -52     -405
G.   Changes in Reserves                                      116      -172         20    n.a.
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like                             725     1,264        988     635
Public MLT Loans
IBED                                                     --         85         77     157
IDA                                                      75         55         55      40
Other Multilateral                                       --          6        100     100
Governments                                             290        595      2,507   1,375
Suppliers/Commercial                                    160        273        363     420
Total Public MLT Loans                                  525      1,014      3,102   2,092
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE. MLT
(Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed)
Interest on Public Debt                                  79         95        111     231
Repayments on Public Debt                               407        631        569     545
Total Public Debt Service                               486        726        680     776
Burden on Exchange Earnings (%)
Public Debf Service                                     34.1       30.5       25.7    25.2
EXTERNAL DEBT                               Actual Debt Outstanding on September 30, 1976
Disbursed Only          Percent
World Bank/IDA                                       154.5                  2.7
Governments and Arab Dev. Funds                    4,604.4                81.2
Suppliers                                            685.9                 12.1
Other MLT                                            226.0                  4.0
Total Public MLT Debt                              5,670.3                100.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                       1,380.7
1/ Excludes "own-exchangel' imports
2/ Includes errors and omissions



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of April 30, 1977)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit                                                          Less cancellations
Numbers      Year  Borrower           Purpose              Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Ln  243-UAR    1959     SCA   Suez Canal Expansion           56.5      --      --
Cr  181-UAR    1970     UAR   Nile Delta Drainage             --      26.0     8.3
Cr  284-UAR    1972     ARE   Railways                        --      30.0     1.9
Cr S-13-UAR 1/ 1972     ARE   Cotton Ginning Engineering      --       0.2     --
Cr  393-UAR    1973     ARE   Upper Egypt Drainage            --      36.0    18.7
Cr  412-UAR    1973     ARE   Development Industrial Bank 2/ --       15.0     2.1
Cr  423-UAR    1973     ARE   Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation   --      18.5     6.2
Cr  437-UAR    1973     ARE   Population                      --       5.0     3.9
Cr S-15-UAR3/ 1973      ARE   Talkha Engineering                       0.4     -
Cr  484-UAR    1974     ARE   Talkha Fertilizer               --      20.0    10.0
Cr  524-EGT    1974     ARE   Ag/Ind Imports                  --      35.0     2.9
Ln 1062-EGT    1974     ARE   Ag/Ind Imports                 35.0      --      4.9
Ln 1064-EGT    1974     SCA   Suez Canal Rehabilitation      50.0      --     42.1
Ln 1085-EGT    1975     ARE   Tourah Cement                  40.0      --     26.0
Ln 1098-EGT    1975     ER    Railways II                    37.0             24.8
Cr  548-EGT    1975     ARE   Telecommunications              --      30.0    27.0
Cr  576-EGT    1975     ARE   DIB II 2/                       --      25.0    23.3
Ln 1239-EGT    1976     APA   Alexandria Port                45.0      --     45.0
Ln 1276-EGT 41 1976     ARE   Fruit and Vegetable Dev.       50.0      --     50.0
Cr  637-EGT    1977     ARE   Upper Egypt Drainage II         --      40.0    40.0
Ln 1285-EGT    1977     ARE   Upper Egypt Drainage II        10.0      --     10.0
Ln 1292-EGT    1977     ARE   Textile Rehabilitation         52.0      --     52.0
Ln 1369-EGT 5/ 1977     AWA   Alexandria Water Supply        56.0      --     56.0
Cr  681-EGT 6/ 1977     ARE   Education                       --      25.0    25.0
Totals                                                 431.5    306.1   480.1
Of which has been repaid                                56.5      0.6
Total now outstanding                                  375.0    305.5
Amount Bold                                     7.6
Of which has been repaid                        6.0      1.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 5/                      373.4    305.5   480.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(amount in US$ million)
Year   Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1976   Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry    4.25     .75     5.0
(plus .635
contingency (5.635)
comnitnen t)
1/ Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR
2/  Formerly Bank of Alexandria
3/ Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR
4/ Third Window Loan
5/ Not yet effective                                            EMIDA
6/  Excluding exchange adjustments                              May 10, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IL EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Prolect: USS26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970: Effective Date: December 22. 1970: Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
At present, about 65 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1979, i.e., 2-1/2 years behind schedule. However,
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected that the whole of
the credit will have been committed by December 1977, and that disbursement
will be completed by mid-1978. Due to inflation the local cost of the project
has increased by 90 percent, from $116 million to $220 million. There is no
foreign exchange cost overrun. Progress in project implementation during 1976
was satisfactory and, for the first time, the project reached the established
annual target. Government has allocated the required local funds for the year
1977 for the implementation of the ongoing Bank/IDA financed drainage projects.
It has also agreed that local funds required in the future would be included
in the medium-term development plan.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Prolect: US$30 million Credit of February
9. 1972; Effective Date: July 17. 1972; Closing Dates: (i) March 31. 1977,
for track materials, locomotives and spare parts; and (ii) December 31, 1977,
for signalling and telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the Closing Date for
the part of the Credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications items
was extended from September 30, 1976, the original date, to December 31, 1977;
the Closing Date for the other parts of the Credit, originally December 31,
1973, was extended for a fourth time to March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17. 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Pro-ject; US$36 million Credit of June
8. 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31. 1979.
At present, about 30 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. About 50
percent of the contracts for equipment have been awarded. Foreign exchange
costs have risen by about 14 percent almost entirely due to price increases
of chemicals for bilharzia control. The foreign cost overrun of the bilharzia
control program is being financed under the Upper Egypt Drainage II project
(Loan No. 1285-EGT and Credit No. 637-EGT).
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
As of March 31, 1977, $12.9 million had been disbursed. The transfer of
responsibility for this project to the newly established Development Indus-
trial Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Pro-ject; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30. 1973; Effective Date: February 15. 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in June 1979 and the remainder of the full project financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed by June 1981. The foreign cost of the project ($34.3 million)
are now firm as all procurement has been completed but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil
works. By Presidential Decree of 1977 the Project Implementation Unit has
been upgraded to the status of a General Authority for Rehabilitation of
Ginneries which should give the management more freedom regarding financial
and administrative matters.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project had been greatly delayed by a shortage of local funds
and by administrative problems. It is now being carried out with a reduced
scope but substantially in accordance with a revised schedule.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.



ANNEX II
Page 4-of 6
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1. 1979.
The project is proceeding well and mechanical completion by mid-
1978 appears feasible. Additional foreign exchange financing to cover a
32 percent cost overrun has been secured from the Arab co-lenders under the
project.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and dis-
bursements are well advanced. One of the six surveys of industrial sub-
sectors has been completed and the five others are expected to be completed
by end-1977.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30
1978.
Disbursement of Bank funds has now begun, the Canal Authority
having first used lower interest funds from other sources. Progress to date
on project implementation has been good, and procurement on other items to be
financed by the Bank is well advanced. A new project for the enlargement of
the canal has been appraised and is expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors early in FY78. The financial situation of the Borrower is sound;
canal traffic and revenues are both higher than expected at appraisal.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closinq Date: June 30,
1979.
Contracts have been awarded for all equipment packages, and disburse-
ments are proceeding. Construction of civil works is under way but at a slow
rate and is about six months behind schedule. Consultants which assisted in
bid evaluation are now assisting in supervision of project execution and
improvement of the existing plant.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, the Egyptian Railways (ER) are experiencing opera-
tional difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because
of inadequate maintenance largely due to lack of spare parts. A program
to remedy this situation is being discussed with Government and ER. Also,
declining traffic and rising costs resulted in a worsening of ER's financial
position. Government is considering an increase in rail tariffs proposed
by ER.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. Construction has, however, now
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Contract awards for
cables have been largely completed and bids for telex equipment are being
evaluated, both several months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
As of March 31, 1977, about $12.7 million had been committed under
the project and $1.6 million had been disbursed. The transfer of respon-
sibility for this project to the newly established Development Industrial
Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Prolect; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation is slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants have completed the first phase of their work; proposals from
management consultants have been invited. Prequalification of contractors for
dredging and construction works has started. Tender documents for floating
cranes are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Steps are being taken to commence project implementation. Bank
Misr has signed sub-loan agreements for most of the identified sub-projects;
consultants have been appointed for Bank Misr and for the Nubariya civil
works.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan and credit were declared effective on January 31, 1977
and project implementation has commenced.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Prolect: US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20. 1977; ClosinR Date: June 30, 1980.
This loan has been declared effective on February 16, 1977 and
project implementation has commenced. The two beneficiary companies have
established effective project implementation units. About 75 percent of
engineering drawings have been completed and contracts with contractors have
been signed. Prequalification of the equipment suppliers has been completed
and tender documents are expected to be issued shortly.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Prolect: US$56 million Loan of
March 7. 1977; Effective Date: July 7. 1977; Closing Date: June 30. 1982.
Action on effectiveness conditions is being initiated.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Prolect: US$25 million Credit of March 7. 1977;
Effective Date: July 6, 1977; ClosinR Date: June 30. 1979.
Action on effectiveness conditions is being initiated.



ANNEX III
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Nile Delta Drainage II Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first identified: August 1975
(b) Date of the First Bank Mission to Consider Project: November/
December 1975
(c) Time taken by the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects (EPADP) to prepare the project: Nine months
(d) Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 29, 1976
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations: April 8, 1977
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The failure of the agreement with the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW) of Germany to become effective by December 31, 1977 or by another date to
be agreed upon between the Government and the Bank/IDA will be a condition of
default unless the Government is able to secure the additional funds required
from other sources.
2.        The establishment of a special fund under this project as well as
under the ongoing Bank/IDA-financed drainage projects providing for timely
allocation of local funds will be a condition of effectiveness under the
Development Credit Agreement (para. 66).
3.        Contracts for open drains and pumping stations will be awarded as
soon as appropriate (para. 58).
4.        A qualified and experienced chairman of EPADP and a vice-chairman
for Lower Egypt will continue to serve on full-time basis (para. 58).
5.        An adequate coordination between the extension service of the
Ministry of Agriculture and EPADP will continue (para. 59).



ANNEX III
Page 2
6.        The Ministry of Health would continue to employ a qualified and
experienced program director and maintain a supervision and evaluation unit
to carry out the bilharzia control program and would agree to continue this
program, including the provision of adequate funds, for at least 20 years
(para. 60).
7.        EPADP will establish and properly staff special field drainage
maintenance units (para. 61).
8.        EPADP would implement a special training program for project
engineers and technicians and would continue its existing incentive policy
to attract qualified staff (para. 62).
9.        EPADP will introduce an adequate monitoring system (para. 72).
10.       EPADP will recover investment and maintenance costs for field
drainage (para. 73).
11.       EPADP would complete a socioeconomic study to determine ability
of beneficiaries to pay for full cost of field drainage investment and the
Government would implement mutually acceptable recommendations of the study
(para. 73).



IBRD 12596
3a-                                           31                                           32-                           MARFCH 1977
Id f D    / r E       R9 R A  N  E A  N       S  E A
Kafr el Dowar          Ds
3].~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
NIL  DLT  DRAINAE IIlROJEC
I   Dio ge crtuhnrt r
Jo.<            J   n                                                  . /)to<- < t
ARAo REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 30  0  0  e  -                                                               A RPI
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE U PROJECT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~ARBI
General Map                            _,           ,|         .      ,_fi
o   \   0      2030            40[rge ctchment o                                                                      0re
Totol projectoreaforremodelling of open dreins  -                                     0Ben  e  A c 
MM/0//   Project areas designated for field dr.inage                         X\
P,rcosed ounmping stations to be constructed                                       c \   v tl    I            1\
Proposed rehbiitaior of existng pumping staons  (                                                        A 
E  =   Areos io,-Ided with fielddrainage with government'sown resources   L t g   /\
L Areas covered by Nile Delta Drainage I IDA Project 4 s || E 'o URKEyv ;1IA
7  OCities, to.ns and Wallges                           \ |  . /9                                       ;   CPU<-SrRIA) 
Major roads                                          \  |                                    irrra.ro  Sr/ LBN'a  
. Suez carol                                                                                                LEAN        I R A _  0 5ALI<_ *
Rivers                                                                        r                                    :.ODAIN 
-3     to   20   0     4                                                                               LIBYA   ARAB 'REPUEIC V     et=Zn
KILOMETERS  sa   6-|-c>                                                                         OF EGrPY   \t   A R A B I A
o ~   ~    MIE                                                                          lho 20d ,              t 
d        3,7P                                         31l          KIrsf<ne                  F. r L  /l            2 



