CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 719 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Nile Delta Drainage II Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 15, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1977, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing
to provide a loan in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
twenty-seven million dollars ($27,000,000) (hereinafter called the
Loan);
(C) the Borrower has further requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the foreign
exchange cost of the Project under the Interest Subsidy Fund for
the Third Window established by Resolution No. 75-111 of the
Executive Directors of the Bank and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide


﻿- 2 -
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
twelve million dollars ($12,000,000) (hereinafter called the
Intermediate Term Loan);
(D) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (hereinafter called
the Authority) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Authority a
portion of the Credit, the Loan and the Intermediate Term Loan as
provided in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement
and the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, respectively;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
the Federal Republic of Germany, acting through the Kreditanstalt
fUr Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KfW), a loan (hereinafter
called the KfW Loan) in an amount of about $24,000,000 to assist in
financing a portion of the foreign exchange cost of Part A of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the KfW Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and KfW;
(F) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan and of the
Intermediate Term Loan provided for, respectively, in the Loan
Agreement and the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement are made;


﻿- 3 -
(G) the Borrower and the Bank intend that the proceeds of
the Loan and the Intermediate Term Loan be disbursed pro rata on
the basis of a 9:4 ratio; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Bank and the Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-4-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
Preamble hereof and in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Authority" means the Egyptian Public Authority for
Drainage Projects established by Presidential Decree No. 158 of
the year 1973 of the Borrower;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Bank and the Authority of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿- 5 -
(c) "Loan Agreement" and the "Intermediate Term Loan
Agreement" mean the agreements of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreements may be amended from time to time; and such terms
include the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable
to such agreements, all schedules and all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement;
(d) "Project Area" means: (i) with respect to Part A of the
Project, the areas designated by the Borrower, the Association and
the Bank, in the Nile Delta within the Governorates of Sharkia,
Dakahlia, Gharbia, Menufia, Behera and Kafr el Sheikh; and (ii)
with respect to Part B of the Project, an area of about 1,200,000
feddans in Upper Egypt lying between Asyut Barrage and the Aswan
High Dam;
(e) "1976 Credit Agreement", "1976 Loan Agreement" and
"1976 Pr.1ect Agreement" mean the Development Credit Agreement No.
637 EGT of June 11, 1976, between the Borrower and the Association.
the Loan Agreement No. 1285 EGT of June 11, 1976, between the
Borrower and the Bank and the Project Agreement of even date
therewith between the Association, the Bank and the Authority,
respectively;
(f) "Upper Egypt Drainage II Project" means the Project
financed by the Association and the Bank under the 1976 Credit
Agreement and 1976 Loan Agreement, respectively;


﻿-6-
(g) "1973 Credit Agreement" and "1973 Project Agreement"
mean the Development Credit Agreement No. 393 UAR of June 8, 1973,
between the Borrower and the Association and the Project Agreement
of even date therewith between the Association and the Authority,
respectively;
(h) "Upper Egypt Drainage I Project" means the Project
financed by the Association under the 1973 Credit Agreement;
(i) "Intermediate Term Loan Account" means the account
opened by the Bank on its books in the name of the Borrower to
which the amount of the Intermediate Term Loan is credited;
(j)  "feddan" means a unit of measurement of the Borrower of
which one is equivalent to 1.04 acres;
(k)  "Egyptian Pound" and "LE" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(1) "UNDP Study" means the study of a Master Plan for
Water Resources Development and Use to be carried out in the
territories of the Borrower pursuant to the Project Document No.
EGY/73/024/A/01/42, between the Borrower, the Bank and United
Nations Development Programme, dated January 16, 1977;
(m) "1970 Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement No. 181 UAR between the Borrower and the Association
of April 17, 1970;
(n) "Nile Delta Drainage I Project" means the Project
financed by the Association under the 1970 Credit Agreement;


﻿-7-
(o) "Ministerial Decrees" means the Ministerial Decree No.
2908 of March 24, 1976, and the Ministerial Decree No. 606 of
October 25, 1976, of the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture, each
as amended to the date of this Agreement; and
(p) "Projects" means the Project, the Nile Delta Drainage
I Project, the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project and the Upper Egypt
Drainage II Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-seven million dollars ($27,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿- 9 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June
15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 1987, and ending December
15, 2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The following are designated as the Borrower's
representatives for the purpose of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions:
(a) in respect of Part A of the Project, the Chairman of
the Board of the Authority;


﻿- 10 -
(b) in respect of Part B of the Project, the Minister of
Health of the Borrower;
(c) in respect of Part C of the Project, the Minister of
Agriculture of the Borrower; and
(d) in respect of Part D of the Project, the Minister of
Irrigation of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out Part A of
the Project through the Authority with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and, shall provide promptly
as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for (A) both such purpose and the efficient operation and
adequate maintenance of the drainage systems included in Part A
(iv) of the Project after completion thereof, and (B) the operation
and adequate maintenance of the drainage works included in Parts A
(i), A (ii) and A (iii) of the Project by the Ministry of
Irrigation of the Borrower; (ii) carry out Part B of the Project
through its Ministry of Health with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
public health practices, and, shall provide promptly as needed the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose; and (iii) carry out Part C of the Project through its
Ministry of Agriculture with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
agricultural training practices, and, shall provide promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.


﻿- 12 -
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Authority to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the
Credit, the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan allocated
under: (A) Categories (1) and (2) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, to the Authority, for the purpose of carrying out
Part A of the Project; (B) Categories (3) and (4) of such
Schedule, to the Ministry of Health of the Borrower, for the
purpcse of carrying out Part B of the Project; (C) Category (5) of
such Schedule, to the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower,
for the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project; and (D)
Category (6) of such Schedule, to the Ministry of Irrigation of
the Borrower.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
provided under Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be


﻿- 13 -
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of Parts B and C of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall continue to maintain the
coordination committees at the national, Governorate and district
levels in the areas included in the Projects for the coordination
of the activities of the extension service of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and of the Authority in accordance with the
Ministerial Decrees.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall make suitable arrangements to ensure the
recovery from cultivators of land drained by field drainage works
to be carried out under this Agreement of an amount adequate to
cover both (A) the capital costs of installing such field drainage
(plus a 10% administrative charge), and (B) the maintenance costs
of such drainage; it being understood that (i) the amount required


﻿- 14 -
for (A) above shall be recovered by way of annual installments
over a period of not more than twenty years from the respective
dates of completion of each drainage unit; and (ii) the amount
required for (B) above shall be determined in accordance with
principles satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association and
shall be recovered, on a continuing basis, two years after the
completion of each drainage unit.
(b) For purposes of this Section the term "field drainage"
means covered laterals, drains and collectors therefor and
relevant structures.
(c) Section 3.05 of the 1976 Credit Agreement, Section 3.06
of the 1973 Credit Agreement and Section 4.07 of the 1970 Credit
Agreement are amended to read as provided in Section 3.05 (a) of
this Agreement.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the obligations of the
Borrower under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall establish, and thereafter maintain, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association, a Special Fund from which the
Authority may draw without restriction to meet expenditures in
respect of the Projects. The Borrower shall adjust and replenish
the amount in this Special Fund at monthly intervals to a level at
least equivalent to the estimated amount of payments to be made
for goods and services required for each of the Projects, less the


﻿- 15 -
estimated amount of payments to be made directly by the
Association or the Bank to suppliers, consultants, or contractors
for such goods and services during the next three months' period,
out of the proceeds of the respective credits or loans.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than June
30, 1978, or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, prepare through its Ministry of Health a plan,
acceptable to the Association, for operation of the bilharzia
control program under Part B of the Project.
(b) The plan of operation referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section shall make adequate provision for the technical
supervision of the snail control program under Part B (i) of
the Project by experts whose qualifications and terms of reference
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.08. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the program for the control of bilharzia under Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall continue to employ a qualified and
experienced program director.
Section 3.09. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause an effective bilharzia oral drug, acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association, to be supplied only to health
centers and units staffed with appropriately qualified personnel.


﻿- 16 -
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall maintain within its Ministry
of Health, a supervision and evaluation unit, satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association, which shall be responsible for the
overall supervision and evaluation of the bilharzia control
program under Part B of the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, after the completion of
the bilharzia control program under Part B of the Project, review,
on a continuing basis, the effectiveness of the said program and
take such measures as shall be necessary on its part (including the
provision of funds required therefor) to ensure the continuation,
until December 31, 1997, of the measures for the control of
bilharzia in the areas referred to under Part B (i) of the Project,
unless the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall implement, or cause to
be implemented, all such recommendations emanating from the study
referred to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement as may be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, in accordance
with a timetable satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts B and
C of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the said Parts of the Project.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Authority shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Authority under the Project
Agreement.
(b) Presidential Decree No. 158 of 1973, or the Law No. 74
of October 9, 1971, or the Ministerial Decrees, of the Borrower,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of
the Authority to carry out the covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(c)  (i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph
the KfW Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1977, or such other date
as shall be agreed to between the Borrower and the
Association.
(ii) The provisions of paragraph (c) (i) of this Section
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to
the satisfaction of the Association that adequate
funds for Part A of the Project are available to the


﻿- 19 -
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and of the Authority under the
Project Agreement.
(d)  (i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the KfW Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of a portion of the cost of
Part A of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the KfW Loan
Agreement; or
(B) the KfW Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) (A) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (1) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (2) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other


﻿- 20
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement
and of the Authority under the Project Agreement.              4
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and the Authority;
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the principal outstanding under the KfW Loan Agreement
shall have been declared, or become, due and payable in advance of
the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Authority has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement have been fulfilled subject
only to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower has established the Special Fund referred
to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Authority, and is
legally binding upon the Authority in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 22 -
Section 6.03. The date November 15, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.04, 3.05 (a) and 3.12 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Article V of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic Cooperation
or the Under Secretary of State for Economic Organizations and
International Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                    Telex:
Ministry of Economy and           348 GAFEC
Economic Cooperation
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 24 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Mohamad Ibrahim Shaker
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ A. David Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-25 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit, the Loan and
the Intermediate Term Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Loan and the
Intermediate Term Loan, the allocation of amounts of such proceeds
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit, the Loan and the
Intermediate Term Loan          % of
(Expressed in Dollar       Expenditures
Category               Equivalent)            to be Financed
Part A:
(1) Equipment for             9,400,000           100% of foreign
drainage (ex-                                 expenditures,
cluding PVC                                   100% of local
pipes) and for                                expenditures ex-
offices and                                   factory and 80%
laboratories                                  of local expen-
ditures for
goods imported
but procured
locally
(2) Civil works              40,600,000           100% of foreign
(pumping stations,                           expenditures
field drainage                               and 40% of local
with PVC pipes or                             expenditures
cement pipes,
structures in
open drains and
buildings)


﻿- 26 -
Amount of the
Credit, the Loan and the
Intermediate Term Loan          % of
(Expressed in Dollar       Expenditures
Category               Equivalent)            to be Financed
Part B:
(3) Equipment                   700,000            100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory and
80% of local
expenditures
for goods im-
ported but
procured lo-
cally
(4) Molluscicides             8,850,000            100% of foreign
and other drugs                               expenditures
for bilharzia
control program
Part C:
(5) Equipment,                  350,000           100% of foreign
materials and                                 expenditures,
vehicles                                      100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory and 80% of
local expenditures
for goods
imported
but procured
locally


﻿- 27 -
Amount of the
Credit, the Loan and the
Intermediate Term Loan          % of
(Expressed in Dollar       Expenditures
Category               Equivalent)           to be Financed
Part D:
(6) UNDP Study                  850,000           100% of foreign
(Master Plan                                 expenditures re-
for Water Re-                                presenting Bor-
sources)                                     rower's foreign
exchange contri-
bution for said
study
(7) Unallocated               5,250,000
TOTAL    66,000,000


﻿- 28 -
2.   The purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no
proceeds of the Credit, of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Loan decreases or increases, the Association or
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association
and the Bank.


﻿- 29 -
4.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
(b) In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the
Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals
shall be made from the Loan Account or from the Intermediate Term
Loan Account except under commitments, if any, entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred
to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement and in Section 1.01 of
the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account or the
Intermediate Term Loan Account in respect of payments made for
expenditures under Category (6).
(d) The proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term
Loan shall be disbursed pro rata on the basis of a 9:4 ratio.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit,
the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Association and the Bank have, or after full withdrawal of the
entire amount of the Credit the Bank has, reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit, the Loan and the Intermediate Term


﻿- 30 -
Loan then allocated to any Category (excluding Category (6)) will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association and the Bank may,
by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit, the Loan and the Intermediate Term Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably
determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Loan and the Intermediate
Term Loan, and the Association and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association and of the Bank under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Intermediate Term Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Credit, the Loan and the Intermediate Term Loan as, in the


﻿- 31 -
Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinions, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Loan and the Intermediate Term Loan.
It


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which is located in the Project Area consists of:
Part A    A drainage program including:
(i) construction of four drainage pumping stations
with provision for pump units and electric
transmission lines of about 19 km in length to
connect said stations to national grid, and other
equipment required therefor;
(ii) provision and installation of ten pump units to
replace pump units in the two existing pumping
stations located at Bahr Saft and Kassaby;
(iii) improvement of about 1,565 km of existing open
drains over an area of 810,000 feddans with
provision for improvements of existing bridges,
syphons, flumes and other structures, and the
provision of vehicles and equipment required
therefor;


﻿- 33 -
(iv) field drainage of areas totalling about 400,000
feddans by the installation of about 32,400 km of
buried field drains of PVC corrugated pipes, about
3,600 km of buried cement pipes for orchards and
about 4,800 km of buried cement collectors, and
the provision of vehicles and construction and
maintenance equipment required therefor; and
(v) provision of buildings, materials, vehicles and
laboratory and office equipment for the Authority.
Part B    A bilharzia control program including:
(i) snail control through a program of regular
area-wide applications of molluscicides;
(ii) provision of the oral drug for the treatment of
bilharzia to health centers and units; and
(iii) provision of materials, equipment and vehicles.
Part C    A technical assistance program including the development
and implementation of irrigation and drainage programs
for extension service personnel and training of such
personnel in such programs.
Part D    Assistance in connection with the UNDP Study consisting
of the provision of funds to enable the Borrower to


﻿- 34 -
finance a part of the foreign exchange cost of the UNDP
Study.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.
m4


