Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19142
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(CREDIT 2556-NI)
June 28, 2001
Country Management Unit for Central America
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Nicaraguan C6rdoba (C$)
1994 US$1 = C$6.9
1998 US$1 = C$10.4
2001US$1 = SDR1.27312
Fiscal Year of the Borrower
January 1 - December 31
Acronyms and Abbreviations
CIPS               Center for Supply of Pharmaceutical Products
EDA                Acute Diarrheal Infections
ERF                Hospital Emergency Rehabilitation Fund
FISE               Emergency Social Investment Fund
GON                Government of Nicaragua
HIPC               Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
HSMP               Health Sector Modernization Project, Credit No. 3084-NI
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IEC                Information, Education and Communication
IRA                Acute Respiratory Infections
INSSBI / INSS      Nicaraguan Social Security Institute (name changed from INSSBI
to INSS in 1995)
MIS                Management Information System
MOH                Ministry of Health
MOF                Ministry of Finance
PAD                Project Appraisal Document
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
PHC                Primary Health Care
POSSS              Program to Organize and Simplify the Medical Supply System
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                Special Drawing Right
SILAIS             Departmental Health Units
SIROM              Primary Infrastructure Rehabilitation System
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:         David de Ferranti
CMU Director:           Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
SMU Director:           Xavier Coll
Task Manager:           Gerard M. La Forgia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Page
Preface                                                                   iv
Evaluation Summary                                                         v
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment                                 I
A. Project Background
B. Project Objectives and Description
C. Implementation Record and Achievement of Project Objectives             4
D. Factors Affecting Project Implementation                               22
E. Project Sustainability                                                 24
F. IDA Performance                                                        24
G. Borrower Performance                                                   25
H. Outcome                                                                25
I. Future Operations                                                      26
J. Key Lessons Learned                                                    26
Part II - Statistical Annexes                                             29
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                           30
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                                       31
Table 3: Project Timetable                                                32
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual            33
Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators                                        34
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation                             37
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project                                  51
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing                                      55
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants                                        56
Table 0: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                    62
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions                                        62
Appendices
A. Government's Contribution to the ICR                                   63
B. Cofinancier's Comments: Government of Norway                           69
C. Map IBRD No. 25188                                                     71
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Nicaragua - Health Sector Reform Project
Credit Number 2556-NI
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first Health Sector
Reform Project in Nicaragua, for which IDA Credit No. 2556-NI in the amount of SDR1O.8
million (US$15 million equivalent) was approved on December 16, 1993 and made effective
on March 15, 1994. The Government of Japan financed preparation of selected project
activities through a PHRD grant of US$900,000 equivalent, and the Government of Norway
cofinanced the project through a US$3 million equivalent grant.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1998, after three extensions of the original
December 31, 1997 closing date. The last disbursement by IDA took place on May 11, 1999.
Small undisbursed balances of the credit and grants were cancelled, as follows: SDR 0.53
million (US$0.68 million equivalent) of the IDA credit, NOK1.15 million (US$0.13 million
equivalent) of the Norwegian grant, and Yen 5.68 million (US$0.054 equivalent) of the
PHRD grant.
The ICR was prepared by Nancy Gillespie, Consultant, with assistance from Sonia
Levere, Team Assistant. The report was reviewed by Helena Ribe and Ana-Maria Arriagada
(current and former Sector Leaders, respectively), Gerard La Forgia (current Task Manager),
Armin Fidler and Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine (former Task Managers), Suzana Augusto
(Principal Operations Officer), and Rosita Estrada (Procurement Specialist).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision/completion
mission, January 11-15, 1999. It is based on material in the project file and on inputs from
project staff, project consultants and the borrower. The borrower contributed to the ICR by
preparing its own project completion report (included as Appendix A to this ICR), and by
commenting on the draft ICR.  The Government of Norway also provided comments
(included as Appendix B). Findings of the ICR have been incorporated into the work of the
follow-on Health Sector Modernization Project financed under Credit 3084-NI.






Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Nicaragua - Health Sector Reform Project
Credit Number 2556-NI
Evaluation Summary
Project Background
In the early 1990's, Nicaragua was emerging from a decade of civil war, and
embarking on a transition from a centrally planned to a market economy. Hyperinflation,
economic decline and an overwhelming debt burden had rendered the macroeconomic
situation unviable. National institutions were weak, civil society was polarized, and there
was frequent social unrest. Nicaragua's infrastructure was severely deteriorated, either
through acts of war or lack of maintenance. Although reliable data were scarce, it was clear
that living conditions had been affected by these upheavals and poverty was widespread.
At this time of profound transition, the Government of Nicaragua (GON) commenced
design of major social sector reforms to enable the country to deliver basic social services to
the poor. At the request of the GON, IDA prepared a social sector assessment, "Nicaragua
Social Sector - Issues and Recommendations" (Report No. 10671-NI, February 3, 1993) to
help define an overall poverty alleviation policy framework and specific sector strategies,
particularly for the health and education sectors. This policy framework was formally
articulated by the GON in a policy letter, dated October 8, 1992 (included as Annex 2 of
Emergency Social Investment Fund Project SAR, Report No. 11108-NI, dated October 26,
1992). Among -other things, the policy letter outlined the GON's goals with respect to
delivery of basic social services, assigning the highest priorities to primary health care and
primary education. The GON noted major sectoral inefficiencies resulting from the lack
coherent strategic frameworks, weak institutional capacity in the line ministries, and an
inefficient and inequitable allocation of resources, which resulted in an inadequate delivery
of quality social services. In the health sector, the GON emphasized improvements in
primary health care, sector management and financing. To translate these priorities into
practice, the GON recognized the need to implement health policy reforms and institutional
strengthening measures in the line ministry to improve efficiency of resource use and target
expenditures more directly to the poor.
In early 1993, the GON requested IDA assistance to design and implement a health
sector reform program, drawing on cross-country experience with health sector reformns in
other Latin American countries. The resulting project was the first IDA Credit in the health
sector in Nicaragua, and one of the first operations approved by IDA after lending to
Nicaragua had been resumed following a hiatus of many years. The project was consistent
with the overall IDA country assistance strategy which emphasized social sector reform
within a tightly managed fiscal program.
The project was financed by IDA Credit 2556-NI, in the amount of SDR10.8 million
(US$15 million equivalent). The Government of Norway provided co-financing in the form
v



of a US$3 million equivalent grant, which was administered by IDA. The Government of
Japan provided a PHRD grant of US$900,000 equivalent to finance project preparation.
Project Objectives and Description
The project sought to enhance the health status of the Nicaraguan population by
supporting the implementation of the Government's health sector reform program. In
particular, the project aimed to:
(a) improve the institutional capacity and management systems of the MOH by
decentralizing services and financial resources to departmental health units (SILAIS),
and introducing performance contracts and monitoring indicators, new administrative
and accounting systems, revised budgeting mechanisms, and a strengthened
Management Information System (MIS);
(b) increase the quality of service delivery by supporting the implementation of a
redefined model of integrated Primary Health Care (PHC) responsive to local
epidemiological conditions, with special emphasis on preventive care and family
planning, improving procurement, warehousing and distribution of drugs,
rehabilitating and maintaining facilities and equipment, and improving staff
productivity; and
(c) strengthen the financing of the sector by increasing cost recovery at the secondary
level.
The project had six components, which are described below along with their
estimated costs at project appraisal:
(a) Institutional Strengthening of MOH ($2.6 million, equivalent to 12.9% of total
project cost) to provide technical assistance to (i) help decentralize budget
implementation, improve resource allocation, introduce service provision
arrangements with the SILAIS, and increase cost recovery, (ii) design and carry out
human resources development and manpower planning and training programs, and
(iii) strengthen the MIS;
(b) Primary Health Care ($7.0 million, or 34.8%) to introduce a new PHC model
nationwide, where preventive care is emphasized and parallel programs, including
family planning, are integrated at the local level; the project was to support PHC by
financing (i) essential drugs for priority interventions, (ii) training of health services
delivery personnel, (iii) information, education and communication activities, (iv)
rehabilitation of PHC facilities in seven of the poorest SILAIS, and (v) a monitoring
and evaluation system;
(c) Pharmaceutical Supply and Distribution System ($3.2 million or 15.9%) to improve
the supply and distribution of essential drugs and pharmaceutical supplies by (i)
conducting studies and providing technical assistance to improve policy, regulation,
vi



and financing, including the operation of a pilot private pharmacy within an MOH
hospital, (ii) improving inventory management, strengthening the MIS, rehabilitating
storage areas, and increasing private sector distribution, and (iii) rationalizing the
nature and level of irrational use of pharmaceuticals and starting to reduce its
incidence;
(d) Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Hospitals ($5.3 million, or 26.4%) to finance (i)
emergency rehabilitation sub-projects for hospitals, and (ii) the design of a proper
maintenance system, including a study to analyze the impact on recurrent costs of
new investments, so that these costs could be properly budgeted for by the MOH;
(e) Technical Assistance to INSSBI ($1.0 million, or 5%) to help (i) design and
implement a health insurance program, for which INSSBI would purchase health
services from the MOH and the private sector and (ii) carry out the preliminary
economic and actuarial studies to evaluate the feasibility of reforming the pension
system; and
(f) Project Administration ($1.0 million, or 5%) to finance consultant services and
operating costs of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
The project objectives and content were consistent with the GON sector strategy and
IDA's country assistance strategy at the time ('Nicaragua Country Strategy Paper," dated
March 19, 1992). The project squarely addressed the shared GON and IDA priorities of
improving primary health care, sector management and sector finance.
Project Costs and Disbursements
The project was completed in five years instead of the three and a half years
estimated at appraisal. After a slightly late start, disbursements remained on track until the
change of government in early 1997. At that time, considerable staff turnover within the
PCU and the MOH caused a slowdown in implementation. Three Closing Date extensions
were granted, and the project closed on December 31, 1998.
Final project costs are estimated at US$20.3 million as of December 1998,
approximately the same as projected at appraisal, although there were some differences in
the sources of financing and the actual distribution of expenditures. Additional financing not
originally expected included resources from the PHRD grant and the Cuenta 1000 (the latter
included US$300,000 in interest earned on deposits in the Special Account established under
the Credit). The PHRD grant financed some consultant services during implementation for
the preparation and design of specific activities and reforms that had been identified in the
SAR, but which still required further preparation to facilitate project activities and reform
decisions. The Cuenta 1000 allowed the project to finance various costs which had not been
specifically contemplated in the SAR and which, due to Nicaragua's severe fiscal constraints,
could not be financed by the MOH directly. These included project-related travel and
supervision expenses, operation and maintenance of project vehicles and office equipment,
and meetings and representation expenses associated with the project. On the other hand,
vii



small undisbursed balances of SDRO.53 million (US$0.68 million), NOK 1.15 million
(US$0.13 million equivalent), and Yen 5.68 million (US$0.05 million equivalent) were
cancelled under the IDA Credit, the Norwegian grant and the PHRD grant, respectively.
Within total project costs, the main increases were in institutional strengthening,
which accounted for 16 percent of actual project costs, compared with 13 percent expected at
appraisal; and project management, which accounted for 7.6 percent of actual costs, as
opposed to 5 percent expected at appraisal. In compensation, the pharmaceutical component
accounted for only 11 percent of total project costs as opposed to the expected 16 percent,
and the primary health care component accounted for 32 percent as opposed to 35 percent.
Implementation Experience and Results
The ICR team's overall assessment of project implementation and results is that they
were partially satisfactory. However, the ICR ratings format permits only a 'satisfactory' or
'unsatisfactory' classification (Part II, Table 1). The overall assessment is therefore rated
unsatisfactory, as project implementation and results did not fully meet objectives.
This was an ambitious project, implemented under very difficult conditions: it was
the first health sector project in Nicaragua, launched on a weak institutional base and in the
context of broad political and economic transition. Nonetheless, IDA and the Government
intentionally opted for an ambitious operation, while explicitly identifying the risks in the
SAR and attempting to account for them in project design. Ultimately, the project did meet
some of its objectives, but fell short in others. The achievements were important, they were
attained under unusually difficult circumstances, and the project succeeded in building a
foundation for reform that is now being supported under follow-up operations by IDA and
other donors.
The project risks identified in the SAR affected the various components of the project
differently. The more straightforward investment activities that entailed civil works,
training, and pharmaceuticals purchase performed well, and these accounted for the majority
of project expenditures. Implementation of the hospital emergency rehabilitation fund and
the fund for minor repairs of primary health facilities financed more works than anticipated
and disbursed ahead of schedule. The PHC component supported the introduction of a new
model of health care, emphasizing integrated attention to women and their children.
Component activities included purchase of equipment and medicines, infrastructure
rehabilitation and training. Health Ministry data show both an improvement in service
coverage and in some health indicators, attributable in part to this component.  The
component to reform the pharmaceuticals supply system performed well in its logistical
aspects (purchase of drugs, organization of inventory and storage systems in local health
facilities).
The clearest success in the area of institutional reform was the technical assistance
component to reform the Social Security Institute, which enabled the successful introduction
of a new health insurance system and piloted a worker's compensation system. The
component to strengthen and modernize the MOH decentralized during project preparation
viii



the administration of a portion of the budget to the SILAIS; and designed and partially
introduced management agreements at the SILAIS and municipal levels, as well as cost
accounting and management information systems.
In other areas of the sectoral reform program, however, the project did not advance as
well, reflecting in large part the institutional and political risks identified at appraisal. Given
the substantial resistance to certain elements of the reform, pronounced leadership of the
process was absolutely crucial for success. When there was clear leadership, the reform
advanced and was visible in the line departments of the MOH. Starting with the first change
of minister in 1995, however, the momentum began to slow.
Proximate reasons for shortfalls in meeting reform objectives are various: the
recommendations of the studies on infrastructure, per capita budget allocation and
pharmaceuticals reform could not be implemented for lack of recurrent finance. The
adoption of the new PHC model has been inconsistent, reflecting MOH difficulties in
organizing integrated and sustained supervision.  In other cases, reforms were not
implemented for political or institutional reasons - e.g., modernization of the pharmaceutical
purchase, supply and distribution system, the health labor market study and personnel
reforms faced powerful stakeholder opposition and political indecision; decentralization of
the budget to the SILAIS did not advance because of MOF reluctance to decentralize such
sensitive line items as the payroll and pharmaceuticals; and the legal foundations of the
reform still need to be secured through presentation of legislation to the National Assembly.
In some cases, work took longer than anticipated, and the results are yet to be observed (MIS
design is still underway). A final factor affecting project impact and sustainability has been
staff turnover at all levels. Multiple changes of political leadership (five ministers over the
life of the project), entailed sweeping changes of staff at the technical level, to the detriment
of the project.
On balance, therefore, while the project did succeed in laying the essential
groundwork toward meeting its reform objectives-tools and technical inputs to support
management strengthening within the MOH; financial strengthening of the sector through the
successful launch of the INSS health insurance system; and design of an improved model of
PHC delivery-the various project risks acted to prevent the simultaneous translation of
these efforts into the reformed operating practices required to fully attain project objectives.
In retrospect, it is clear that a longer time frame for the reform should have been envisioned
from the outset.
The sustainability of project activities is being supported through both a new IDA-
financed project, the Health Sector Modernization Project, Credit 3084-NI- (HSMP) and an
IDB project, Support for MOH Hospital Modernization (NI-0024). The HSMP is a ten year
adaptable program credit, which will support continuity and reinforcement of key reforn
activities. This instrument is seen as a better vehicle to support such a difficult reform
process than a sector investment credit, because it offers the flexibility of joint annual
program reviews, allowing the project to adapt to changing country circumstances. The
financial sustainability of the health sector reform is closely linked to Nicaragua's overall
financial situation. Although the GON has devoted a growing share of its operating budget to
the social sectors, acute finance constraints will constrain progress, at least until the
ix



conclusion of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) debt reduction process and
probably for some time thereafter. Donor support will therefore remain essential to this
process. Finally, the sustainability of the reform process will depend in very large part upon
the strength and consistency of its national leadership in the future.
Borrower and IDA Performance and
Major Factors Affecting the Project
Borrower performance was quite strong during the preparation and early
implementation phases of this project. Performance slipped in later years as institutional
weaknesses were compounded by significant staff rotation at all levels of the MOH.
Key factors under the control of the Government generally, that affected project
outcome included: variable political commitment to the reform (five ministers during the
life of the project), high staff turnover, and inter-institutional differences on health sector
finance and decentralization. Factors under the control of the PCU included its operation in
relative isolation from the line staff of the MOH and its weak administration and financial
reporting. Factors not subject to the control of the Government included: political and
stakeholder resistance to the reform, particularly difficult given the degree of polarization in
the country following the civil war period; incomplete and underestimation of some project
costs at appraisal which, combined with the inexperience of the GON in programming and
budgeting, produced shortfalls in funding of some activities; unfamiliarity with IDA
procedures, which caused some implementation delays; and unforeseen natural disasters
which caused some reprogramming of funds.
In retrospect, at the design stage IDA should have displayed greater realism with
respect to the health reform process and assisted the borrower to develop a less ambitious
project. Although it had only recently resumed operational work in Nicaragua after a fairly
lengthy hiatus and therefore lacked in-depth country knowledge, IDA's experience with
health reform efforts elsewhere should have been sufficient to indicate at least a longer
implementation period for such fundamental changes as the project involved. Thereafter,
IDA performance was generally supportive through to project closing. Inevitable staff
rotation did occur during implementation, but every effort was made to ensure continuity.
The consultant team remained remarkably stable through implementation, delivering
frequent and sustained project supervision. However, IDA performance during execution
could have been improved through more prompt follow up on problems with project
financial management and reporting.
Key Lessons Learned
The key lessons for future health and other projects in Nicaragua concern problems
of project implementation stemming from weak counterpart institutions, the need for strong
commitment and leadership of modernization and change processes, the need to build
simplicity and flexibility into project design, and the importance of close donor coordination.
x



*  The strategy of using fairly independent project units to manage project execution, as
a means of compensating for weak or inexperienced line agency counterparts, can
work against the objective of maintaining a strong sense of counterpart ownership.
To a large degree it is up to the national leadership to make this inherently difficult
relationship work.
*  Flexibility and simplicity of project design are critical to avoid overwhelming the
institutional capacities of counterparts, especially in cases of first projects within a
sector.
*  Clear and sustained government commitment and leadership is indispensable to the
success of major reform efforts. Areas requiring cooperation among line institutions
need to be addressed at the outset of a project to avoid delays during implementation.
*  For complex sector reform programs involving a multiplicity of actions by different
actors and the gradual build-up of institutional capacities to implement and sustain
the changes, the adaptable program loan/credit instrument may be preferable to a
one-time sector investment project.
*  When there is a large donor presence in a country and, hence, the potential for
overlap of policy advice and project activities, effective donor coordination is
essential throughout project implementation and not just during the period of project
design.
Future Operations
The Health Sector Reform Project was immediately followed by a new operation, the
Health Sector Modernization Project, Credit No. 3084-NI (HSMP), which became effective
December 8, 1998. The HSMP is complemented by an IDB project, Support for MOH
Hospital Modernization (NI-0024), and they are both being coordinated by a single PCU.
These new projects build on the foundation created by the Health Sector Reform Project, and
their design takes into account many of the lessons learned during implementation. Many
key reform activities begun under the Health Sector Reform Project are now being advanced
under these two new operations (scaling-up of pilot experiences, implementation of study
recommendations, consolidation of new management tools), which will help to secure
sustainability of the reforms.
xi






Part I - Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Background
I.    In the early 1990's, Nicaragua was emerging from a decade of civil war, and
embarking on a transition from a centrally planned to a market economy. Hyperinflation,
economic decline and an overwhelming debt burden had rendered the macroeconomic
situation unviable. National institutions were weak, civil society was polarized, and there
was frequent social unrest. Nicaragua's infrastructure was severely deteriorated, either
through acts of war or lack of maintenance. Although reliable data were scarce, it was clear
that living conditions had been affected by these upheavals and poverty was widespread.
2.    At this time of profound transition, the Govemment of Nicaragua (GON) commenced
design of major social sector reforms to enable the country to deliver basic social services to
the poor. At the request of the GON, the World Bank prepared a social sector assessment,
"Nicaragua Social Sector - Issues and Recommendations" (Report No. 10671-NI, dated Feb.
3, 1993) to help define an overall poverty alleviation policy framework and specific sector
strategies, particularly for the health and education sectors. This policy framework was
formally articulated by the GON in a policy letter, dated October 8, 1992 (included as Annex
2 of Emergency Social Investment Fund Project SAR, Report No. 11108-NI, dated October
26, 1992). Among other things, the policy letter outlined the GON's goals with respect to
delivery of basic social services, assigning the highest priorities to primary health care and
primary education. The GON noted major sectoral inefficiencies resulting from the lack
coherent strategic frameworks, weak institutional capacity in the line ministries, and an
inefficient and inequitable allocation of resources, which resulted in an inadequate delivery
of quality social services. In the health sector, the GON emphasized improvements in
primary health care, sector management and financing. To translate these priorities into
practice, the GON recognized the need to implement health policy reforms and institutional
strengthening measures in the line ministry to improve efficiency of resource use and target
expenditures more directly to the poor.
3.    In early 1993, the GON requested IDA assistance to design and implement a health
sector reform program, drawing on cross-country experience with health sector reforms in
other Latin American countries. The resulting project was the first IDA Credit in the health
sector in Nicaragua, and one of the first operations approved by IDA after lending to
Nicaragua had been resumed following a hiatus of many years. The project was consistent
with the overall IDA country assistance strategy which emphasized social sector reform
within a tightly managed fiscal program.
B. Project Objectives and Description
4.    Government Objectives. In 1993, the GON elaborated its priorities for the health
sector, emphasizing improvements in the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of health
services, and a reduction in inequities in access to basic health care, especially those due to
geographic location or socio-economic status. Facing tight budget constraints with no short



term prospect for improvement, the MOH identified the need to deliver better service within
existing resources. To increase efficiency, the MOH proposed to introduce incentives for
cost savings by delegating more decisions on resource allocation to the local level, and to
stimulate the increased participation of the private sector in the financing and delivery of
health services. To implement its strategy, the GON proposed to: (a) decentralize health
services; (b) implement a redefined model of Primary Health Care (PHC), with a focus on
integrated, preventive maternal and child care services; (c) reduce pharmaceuticals losses
and stockouts by strengthening the supply and distribution of pharmaceutical products; (d)
rehabilitate health facilities to compensate for years of inadequate maintenance during the
civil war and to accommodate the new PHC model; and (e) strengthen cost recovery to allow
the MOH to maintain and increase coverage, if possible, without adding pressure to tight
budgetary resources. Key strategies for increasing cost recovery were the creation of a health
insurance system under the INSS (then INSSBI) capable of purchasing health services for its
beneficiaries from either the MOH or the private sector and the introduction of a tariff system
for selected health and "hotel" services in the MOH hospitals to enable the MOH to sell
services to the INSS, the private sector or individuals. To protect vulnerable groups, the
MOH sought to guarantee a basic package of health services free of charge for all users, and
all services free of charge for the poor.
5.    Project Obiectives. The project sought to enhance the health status of the Nicaraguan
population by supporting the implementation of the Government's health sector reform
program. In particular, the project aimed to:
(a) improve the institutional capacity and management systems of the MOH by
decentralizing services and financial resources to the departmental health units
(SILAIS), and introducing performance contracts and monitoring indicators, new
administrative and accounting systems, revised budgeting mechanisms, and a
strengthened MIS;
(b) increase the quality of service delivery by supporting the implementation of a
redefined model of PHC responsive to local epidemiological conditions, with special
emphasis on preventive care and family planning, improving procurement,
warehousing and distribution of drugs, rehabilitating and maintaining facilities and
equipment, and improving staff productivity; and
(c) strengthen the financing of the sector by increasing cost recovery at the secondary
level.
6. Project Description. The project had six components, which are described below along
with their estimated costs at project appraisal:
(a) Institutional Strengthening of MOH ($2.6 million, equivalent to 12.9% of total
project cost) to provide technical assistance to (i) help decentralize budget
implementation, improve resource allocation, introduce service provision
arrangements with the SILAIS, and increase cost recovery, (ii) design and carry out
human resources development and manpower planning and training programs, and
(iii) strengthen the MIS;
2



(b) Primary Health Care ($7.0 million, or 34.8%) to introduce a new PHC model
nationwide where preventive care is emphasized and parallel programs, including
family planning, are integrated at the local level; the project was to support PHC by
financing (i) essential drugs for priority interventions, (ii) training of health services
delivery personnel, (iii) information, education and communication (LEC) activities,
(iv) rehabilitation of PHC facilities in seven of the poorest SILAIS, and (v) a
monitoring and evaluation system;
(c) Pharmaceutical Supply and Distribution System ($3.2 million or 15.9%) to improve
the supply and distribution of essential drugs and pharmaceutical supplies by (i)
conducting studies and providing technical assistance to improve policy, regulation,
and financing, including the operation of a pilot private pharmacy within an MOH
hospital, (ii) improving inventory management, strengthening MIS, rehabilitating
storage areas, and increasing private sector distribution, and (iii) rationalizing the
nature and level of irrational use of pharmaceuticals and starting to reduce its
incidence;
(d) Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Hospitals ($5.3 million, or 26.4%) to finance
(i) emergency rehabilitation sub-projects for hospitals and (ii) the design of a proper
maintenance system, including a study to analyze the impact on recurrent costs of new
investments, so that these costs could be properly budgeted for by the MOH;
(e) Technical Assistance to INSSBI ($1.0 million, or 5%) to help (i) design and
implement a health insurance program, for which INSSBI would purchase health
services from the MOH and the private sector and (ii) carry out the preliminary
economic and actuarial studies to evaluate the feasibility of reforming the pension
system; and
(f) Project Administration ($1.0 million, or 5%) to finance consultant services and
operating costs of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
7.    Assessment of Project Objectives. Project objectives were based on an analysis of
the health sector at the time of project preparation, and on a strong consensus among the
GON and other donors as to the issues and priorities for action. These included significant
reforms aimed at improving primary health care and strengthening sector management and
finance, to be carried out within a fairly short (three and one half years) period of time.
8.    In retrospect, project objectives and the implementation plan were overly ambitious
for prevailing country circumstances. Nicaragua was undergoing a considerable political,
economic and institutional transition at the time of project preparation. Three years after the
end of the civil war, institutions were technically weak, fragile and highly politicized. On the
other hand, many vested interests had been uprooted by more than a decade of political
turmoil, and GON was anxious to take advantage of this political space to launch reforms.
9.    The SAR identified the main risks as:  weak institutions, potential political
opposition to the reforms, and counterpart financing constraints. To mitigate these risks, the
3



project was prepared with detailed implementation plans and it provided for frequent
supervision support throughout the implementation phase.
10.   Also, specific project activities were designed to be as simple as possible. For
example, while the introduction of performance based management contracts between the
central ministries and the departmental service providers represented a significant change in
the way the MOH operated, the actual instruments were to be fairly straightforward. In cases
where major business changes were being supported, such as management reforms or the
introduction of a new model of PHC, the components included finance for training,
workshops and supervision.
11.  In order to help MOH staff get used to some of the new management concepts being
introduced, the project also introduced incentives to support the reform process. For
example, a portion of the funds for training and infrastructure rehabilitation were to be
allocated competitively, according to published criteria which included participation in the
reform process.
C. Implementation Record and Achievement of Project Objectives
12.   The project was completed in five years instead of the three and a half years
estimated at appraisal. After a slightly late start, disbursements remained on track until the
change in government in early 1997. At that time, considerable staff turnover within the
PCU and the MOH caused a slowdown in implementation. Three Closing Date extensions
were granted for a total of 12 months, and the project closed on December 31, 1998.
13.   There were five amendments to the Credit Agreement, of which the last two affected
project resource allocations. The fourth amendment entailed a shift of resources from PHC
and pharmaceuticals system training toward management training, since the latter costs were
higher than anticipated. The reallocation also provided finance of PCU and printing costs
that had not been contemplated in project design, and established a ceiling of $2.8 million for
the international purchase of vehicles, medical equipment and pharmaceuticals.
14.   The fifth amendment waived the counterpart finance requirement for medical
equipment and pharmaceuticals purchases in light of the emergency needs generated by
Hurricane Cesar in September 1996. The amendment also eliminated the declining finance
provision for pharmaceutical products, to enable the project to continue to finance these
goods through the Norwegian Grant. The ceiling for medical equipment was increased from
$0.5 million to $1.7 million and the category for pharmaceuticals and medical supplies was
increased from $0.8 million to $4.8 million.
15.   Final project costs are estimated at US$20.3 million as of December 1998, roughly
the same as had been projected at appraisal, although there were some variations in the
sources of financing and actual distribution of expenditures. Additional financing not
originally expected came from the PHRD grant and the Cuenta 1000 (the latter included
$300,000 in interest earned on deposits in the Special Account established under the Credit) .
The PHRD grant financed some consultant services during implementation for the
4



preparation and design of specific activities and reforms that had been identified in the SAR,
but which still required further preparation to facilitate project activities and reform
decisions. The Cuenta 1000 allowed the project to finance various costs which had not been
specifically contemplated in the SAR and which, due to Nicaragua's severe fiscal constraints,
could not be financed by the MOH directly. These included project-related travel and
supervision expenses, operation and maintenance of project vehicles and office equipment,
and meetings and representation expenses associated with the project. On the other hand,
small undisbursed balances of SDR 0.53 million (US$0.68 million), NOK 1.15 million
(US$0.13 million equivalent), and Yen 5.68 million (US$0.05 million equivalent) were
cancelled under the IDA Credit, the Norwegian grant and the PHRD grant, respectively.
16.   Within total project costs, the main increases were in institutional strengthening,
which accounted for 16 percent of actual project costs, compared with 13 percent expected at
appraisal; and project management, which accounted for 7.6 percent of actual costs, as
opposed to 5 percent expected at appraisal. In compensation, the pharmaceutical component
accounted for only 11 percent of total project costs as opposed to the expected 16 percent,
and the primary health care component accounted for 32 percent as opposed to 35 percent.
17.   On balance, the project was partially successful. Project objectives were both overly
ambitious and risky, especially given the environment in Nicaragua at the time, yet the MOH
executed many of them and succeeded in laying a groundwork for reforms being supported
under the HSMP. The project was most successful in its execution of specific and discrete
investment activities. It was less successful in translating these into the implementation of an
integrated reform program, and thereby in meeting fully the project's development
objectives. The project's least successful area was its financial administration.
18.   The extent of achievement of project objectives is described below, by component,
and is summarized in Text Table 1. Factors that affected the implementation of the
components are discussed below.
(a) Institutional Strengthening of the MOH
19.   The Institutional Strengthening component consisted of three sub-components
designed to help the MOH assume its new role as regulator of the sector, and to support an
effective process of decentralization to the local level: (i) delegation of authority to the
SILAIS; (ii) human resources development; and (iii) management information systems.
5



Table 1. Summary Assessment of Project Achievements
Component/                 Activity                        Accomplishment                                    Shortfall                        Assessment
Subcomponent
I.        Institutional                           *   Developed a number of important inputs for  D   Did not succeed in fundamentally changing the  Partially
Strengthening of MOH                                  the reform                                   way  the  MOH  operates, which  provoked  successful
.                    .                              .                             shortfalls in some other components
Delegation of Authority                                                                                                                         Partially
to the SILAIS                                                                                                                                   successful
Health            System   *   National Health  Council, and advisory  *   Effort lost momentum
Democratization                councils formed                          *   Legal framework remained to be established
Management       Systems  *   Revised  budget allocation  methodology  *   Budget allocation methodology not applied due to
(Budget         allocation     designed                                     shrinking budget
methodology,         cost  *   Cost accounting system operating in all 17  *   Cost  accounting   system   still   manual;
accounting,       Service      SILAIS and 30 Hospitals                      modernization necessary.
Provision Agreements)      *   Many SILAIS have gained experience in the  *   Service  provision  agreements  need  to  be
use of Service Provision Agreements         institutionalized
Budget Decentralization    *   MOH   goods  and   services  budget  *   Legal framework was inadequate to support
decentralized during project preparation    greater decentralization
Municipalities program goods and services  *   Personnel budget remained centralized in MOF,
budget disbursements in about half of the   limiting  MOH's ability to improve critical
SILAIS, and execute them in all SILAIS      imbalances in staff mix;
*   Pharmaceutical budget remained centralized;
Unit cost study                                            .            *   Never carried out (IDB became involved)
Cost recovery study        *   Introduced revised fee schedule and system   *   Application of system  varied among health
to monitor cash flow of private sector units  facilities, and system was abolished just prior to
in 23 MOH hospitals                         project closing
Legal Reform               *   Prepared following laws: MOH Organic;  *   Draft laws not yet approved (except reform of
Social Security, Private Health Insurance,  INSS pension system) and being regrouped and
private Providers, Hospital and Health      improved before presentation to Assembly.
Professionals;
*   Carried out assessment of legal status of
MOH facilities                          *   Donor coordination was weak, and MINSA had
*   Technical support to MOH to coordinate      difficulty using information on donor activities to
aid;                                        avoid  duplication  of effort or inconsistent
*   Supported preparation of National Health    approaches;
Policy 1997-2002
Human       Resource                                                                                                                            Not
Development                                                                                                                                     Successful
Personnel Decentralization  *   Supported the transfer of responsibility for  *   Since  personnel  budget  remains  centrally
personnel administration to the SILAIS level  controlled, SILAIS have no authority to alter
skills mix or number
Training Fund              *   Trained 2,600 MOH employees through 1ll   *   Impact of activity reduced by high personnel
6



Component/                 Activity                         Accomplishment                                     Shortfall                        Assessment
Subcomponent
training subprojects                        turnover
Labor Market Study         *   Study with wide-ranging recommendations  *   Recommendations remain to be implemented
for  personnel  management,  training
standards, skills mix and skills planning
carried out
Management                                         *   First phase  of the  design  has been  *   Task under-designed and under-costed, therefore,  Partially
Information Systems                                    concluded,  and  initial  modules  for        only  about half of planned  was  actually  successful
accounting, budget and treasury, plus source  completed;
I     programs and user's manual delivered;  I_I
11. Primary Health Care                            *   Design of a revised model of PHC and its  *   Fell short of improving health indicators as much  Partially
agreement with all major donors;             as had been expected; Donor coordination efforts  Successful
*   Restructured  primary  health  facilities,   not sustained to ensure consistency of approach;
including   infrastructure  rehabilitation,  a   Implementation by PCU failed to integrate fully
equipment and medicines provision, and       with the line departments of the MOH;
staff training in 7 SILAIS supported under  *   Did not achieve effective coordination of primary
project;                                     and secondary levels of system or rationalize mix
and distribution of health workers in support of
*   Improvement in service coverage and in       new model;
some health indicators;                 *   Weak data base and evaluation  framework
complicates assessment of impact.
Ill.    Pharmaceutical                             *   Improved  policy  framework, and  local  *   Did  not resolve  some  core  problems  of  Partially
Supply and Distribution                                organization    and    management   of        pharmaceuticals supply and distribution system;    Successful
System                                                 pharmaceuticals;
Policy, Regulation and  Generic drugs study        *   Development of pharmaceuticals pricing  *   Study's recommendations not implemented
Financing                                              policy
Donated    pharmaceuticals  *   Developed a policy framework
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   study
Private hospital pharmacy   *   Initiated in four Managua hospitals and three
pilot                           health centers with success _
Legal     reform       of  *   Revised Law of Medicines prepared and  *   Law will require some modification to correct
pharmaceutical sector           passed by National Assembly                  outstanding problems
Pharmaceutical     supply   *   Study  evaluating  existing  system  and  *   Recommendations not implemented
system                          proposing alternatives carried out
Monitoring and supervision   *   Developed and disseminated norms and a
of pharmaceutical  supply       supervision instrument that have helped
system                         institutionalize   supervision    of   the
pharmaceutical supply system            _____                                    _
Improvement  of  the                               *   Implemented a new system to organize and  *   Pharmaceuticals budget not decentralized, which
Local   Supply   and                                    simplify the management of pharmaceuticals  limits local ability to respond to needs;
7



Component/                 Activity                        Accomplishment                                    Shortfall                        Assessment
Subcomponent
Distribution System                                    in 205 health service units;            *   Local needs programming ability remains weak;
*   Not successful in reducing internal loss of MOH
Rational Use orrui rdrugs;
Promotion of the                                  *   Carried out study proposing strategies to  *   Recommendations being put into practice;
Rational Use of Drugs                                  reduce inappropriate handling of medicines;
IV. Rehabilitation and                            *   Provided  quick response to emergency  *   Demand seriously exceeded Fund resources.      Successful
Maintenance of                                         infrastructure repair needs in hospitals and
Hospitals                                              primary care facilities
Hospital Rehabilitation                           *   ERF and SIROM  exceeded expectations  *   Funds allocated to ERF were not adequate
both in terms of demand and pace of  *   Supervision and control mechanisms were weak.
execution of fund                       *   SIROM and ERF sub-project cost ceilings were
*   ERF  improved  physical  standards  in      low, which  may have distorted  investment
hospitals                                   priorities
*   ERF provided a quick response to specific  *   System  to  maintain  hospital  infrastructure
problems                                    properly not implemented due to difficult fiscal
*   Imposed no additional recurrent costs       situation.
Maintenance System for  Infrastructure  Maintenance  *   Produced set of operating manuals for  *   System not yet implemented for lack of recurrent
Health Facilities      system study                   system   of preventive  maintenance  in      finance and technical capacity
hospitals
Recurrent Cost implications  *   Analyzed the impact of various hospital
study                          investment options on MOH recurrent costs
V. Technical Assistance                           *   Successfully laid the groundwork for the                                                  Successful
to INSSBI                                              ongoing modernization of the INSS
Health Insurance       Redesign   INSS   health  *   Implementation of new  model of health  *   Coverage did not grow as fast as expected at
insurance model to provide a   insurance that by 1997 covered 120,000       appraisal
basic  package  of health      workers and their families               *   Oversight of service quality and costs needs
services to affiliates in line                                              strengthening
with contributions
Workman's              New            workman's  *   New system of workman's compensation
Compensation and       compensation    insurance       has been designed and piloted
Pension Reform         system   and   study   of  *   Financial and operational assessment of the
alternatives   to   reform     pension fund has been completed, with
pension system                 recommendations for reform
MIS                    Design  of and integrated  *   Designed an integrated MIS for INSS
MIS for INSS                                                  _
VI. Project                                       *   Coordinated project implementation  and  *   Operated as a project execution unit          Partially
Administration                                         disbursement                            *   Financial Management was not satisfactory    successful
*   Did not adequately use monitoring indicators
8



20.   (i) Delegation of authority to the SILAIS.  This sub-component was only partially
successful in meeting its ambitious objectives, in part because it was ahead of its time in
advancing a decentralization agenda in one Ministry, in an otherwise still fairly centralized
country. It introduced a number of essential building blocks to support the decentralization
process, and which are recognized as important achievements. It is considered only partially
successful because core efforts to democratize the health system and to move budget
authority and oversight functions to lower levels of the system did not advance as planned.
21.   Health System  Democratization.  Starting in 1993, the project supported the
definition, broad consultation, and dissemination of new health sector policies. This work
provided the framework for the project's support of MOH efforts to include civil society in
the oversight and reform of the health system. A National Health Council was formed, as
were advisory councils for each SILAIS and hospital. These efforts lost momentum with the
change of Minister in 1995, and as some councils came to be used as political platforms. By
1996-1997, few of the local councils were still in existence, and the National Health Council
was rarely convened. Establishment of these structures is being attempted again under the
HSMP and is expected to be more successful, since there is a growing acceptance in
Nicaragua of the need for participation and consultation with stakeholders in many spheres
of public sector activity.
22.   Management Systems. The sub-component also supported the design of a number of
systems to facilitate the decentralized administration of the health system.  The first
administrative system designed with project support was a new budget allocation
methodology based on a risk-adjusted per capita methodology. This methodology would
allow the MOH to improve the equity of resource allocation across geographic areas, and
enable the MOH to begin measuring productivity. Ideally, a shift to a per capita budget
system should be phased in using annual budget increases to achieve the warranted
allocations. However, as a consequence of Nicaragua's very constrained fiscal situation,
MOH per capita recurrent budgets actually declined in real terms over the life of the project'.
In the context of a shrinking budget, the political cost of reallocating money from one
SILAIS to another became too great to allow more than token resource reallocations. A
challenge for the new HSMP will be to apply this system under continuing tight budget
constraints. A very gradual approach to implementation may be the most successful.
23.   The second administrative system was a cost accounting system, which was designed
in 1995 and is currently operating in all 17 SILAIS and in 30 hospitals. Although the system
is relatively well established, report production is slow because the system is manual, has
suffered personnel turnover and has some difficulty accounting for fixed assets. A manual
system was appropriate to Nicaragua's circumstances in the early to mid-1990s, and it
provided the MOH with some capacity to oversee costs of the SILAIS and hospitals, but
further modernization is now clearly in order. Under the HSMP, this system will be replaced
by a new automated cost accounting system that will be compatible with GON's new
'The real per capita recurrent finance of the MOH declined 29% between 1993 and 1998 (from $17.98
to $12.80). This reflects both a decline in MOH's share of the GON operating budget, from 24.7% in
1995 to 21.7% in 1998, and the country's still high population growth.
9



standardized integrated financial management system being introduced in all central
government institutions.
24.   The third management system introduced under the sub-component is the use of
service provision agreements. These agreements aim to increase the direct accountability
between the local level and the central level for the provision and finance of health services,
and to provide objective criteria for performance evaluation. Service provision agreements
measure compliance in priority areas of the MOH strategy - application of the integrated
PHC model, budget decentralization, rational use of medicines, primary level service
provision, and planning and information systems.
25.   Service provision agreements began to be used in 1994, and evolved unevenly. By
1996, their implementation fell behind schedule and lost momentum. Delays were due to
changes in MOH management that reduced the reform momentum, the choice of excessively
strict indicators and the inability of the MOH to monitor compliance -the MOH had neither
the supervision capability nor the capacity to generate credible data to measure progress
toward targets.  Nevertheless, some SILAIS have used the tool internally with their
municipalities, and the health system as a whole has now gained some familiarity with the
use of the instrument. The SILAIS have also gained some experience in the use of strategic
planning instruments designed with project support to help tailor their work plans to local
needs. The challenge for the MOH now, supported by the HSMP, is to institutionalize this
instrument as a core management tool that integrates the reform effort. Key to the success of
this effort will be sustained supervision, improved data quality and compliance monitoring.
26.   Budget Decentralization.  The key objective of this sub-component was to
decentralize the MOH budget to the SILAIS and municipalities. During project preparation
in 1993, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) agreed to decentralize the MOH goods and services
budget (slightly less than 20% of total operating budget), but it has been reluctant to
decentralize control of the highly sensitive remaining portions of the budget-personnel and
drugs-without having the appropriate legal framework in place. Beyond the legal issues,
decentralization faced political obstacles. The decentralization of personnel management
was also impeded by strong stakeholder opposition to a change that would effectively dilute
union power and redistribute staff from desirable urban jobs to less desirable rural jobs.
Decentralization of the pharmaceuticals budget was similarly hampered by strong union
opposition, weak political leadership and, to a lesser degree, the lack of expertise at the local
level to identify and program pharmaceutical needs.
27    The SILAIS have achieved varying results with that portion of the budget that has
been decentralized. In about half of them, the municipalities program the disbursements of
their goods and services budget, while in nearly all SILAIS, the municipal level executes
those resources. Under the HSMP, IDA is financing the preparation of the legal framework
that would support full resource decentralization to the SILAIS.
28.   Unit Cost Study.  This study was to develop a methodology to calculate the unit
costs of service delivery. It was never carried out because the IDB undertook preparation of
a methodology to define unit costs in hospitals, and the MOH decided that extension of the
unit cost study to the primary level was not a priority, since the hospitals are the heavy cost
10



centers of the system. Application of this methodology is contemplated under the new IDB
and IDA-financed projects.
29.   Cost Recovery Study. Cost recovery  was addressed in two ways. The IDB
implemented a study of alternative sources of financing, and the IDA-financed Health Sector
Reform Project supported the MOH in the design of its private medical services: The project
reviewed existing tariffs and proposed a revised fee schedule, and it designed a system to
monitor the cash flow of the private service units in 23 MOH hospitals. The application of
this system varied widely from one health facility to another, and it was abolished just prior
to project closing due to political opposition and the lack of a legal foundation for the fees.
This issue is to be revisited under the new IDB- and IDA-financed projects, and will be
strengthened by unit cost information.
30.   Legal Reform. The sub-component also supported the preparation of seven laws that
provide the legal basis for the health sector reform. They included an MOH Organic Law, a
Social Security Law, a Private Health Insurance Law, a Private Providers Law, a Hospital
Law, and a Health Professionals Law. Legislation to reform the national pension system
administered by INSS has been passed, but other draft laws have not been taken up by the
National Assembly. The situation of incomplete legal frameworks is not unique to the health
sector in Nicaragua. Given the still very high level of political polarization over much of the
past decade, successive governments have tread carefully in adopting new laws, often
pushing reforms instead on the basis of ministerial decrees. Such a strategy faces the obvious
limitation that reforms can be more easily overturned, but it has also permitted pragmatic
testing and refining of approaches, and implementation of changes that would have been
much delayed by waiting for new legislation. Looking to the future, the HSMP will support
further legal development, giving priority to the drafting and presentation of a General
Health Law (which would subsume the MOH Organic Law, Hospital Law, Health
Professionals Law, Private Providers Law, and a Food Safety Law) and the Health Ministry
Decentralization Law.
31.   Other important activities supported by the sub-component included:  (i) an
assessment of the legal status of MOH facilities, and revisions of the land registry to legalize
the status of 711 properties, and (ii) technical support to the offices of External Cooperation
and Administration/Finance of the central MOH, to strengthen their ability to coordinate the
activities of multiple donor project, and to manage the introduction of the new management
systems introduced under the sub-component.  The project also supported the new
administration's planning department in the preparation of the National Health Policy 1997-
2002 and the associated National Health Plan, which set the basis for the follow-up IDA
and IDB-financed projects.
32.   (ii) Human Resource Development.  The human resource development sub-
component was not successful.  The sub-component was intended to introduce the
management tools and training to enable the MOH to operate a decentralized personnel
system. With the support of this sub-component, the MOH did complete an updated
personnel inventory (including an audit of the personnel roster to eliminate 'ghost' workers),
develop a manual of job categories and their functions, delegate personnel administration
functions to the SILAIS, introduce a regulation governing personnel discipline, and execute a
11



health labor market study (below). But because the control of the personnel budget was never
decentralized, there have been few real changes in the way the MOH administers its
personnel.
33.   Personnel Decentralization. The project did support the transfer of responsibility for
personnel administration to the SILAIS level. But as discussed above, the personnel budget
remains centrally controlled by the MOF. This leaves the SILAIS without authority to alter
skills mix or number, and therefore with no real power to address their key personnel
problems. The issues of too many doctors, too few nurses and too many urban vs. rural
personnel have not been resolved in any significant degree.
34.   Training Fund. To support the reform process, the sub-component included a fund
that offered training to nearly 2,600 MOH employees through 111 training subprojects. High
staff tumover, both by choice and for political reasons, seriously reduced the impact of this
activity. Most notably, the project financed an eight week course in health administration
imported from the University of Chile, which was compulsory for all MOH and SILAIS
managers (80 participants). At the time of project closing, few if any of that group of 80
remained in the MOH.
35.   Labor Market Study.  The study of the medical labor market established the
fundamental personnel data base of the MOH: staff distribution, attributes, training levels,
functions, etc. It also provided wide-ranging recommendations for personnel management,
including the definition of personnel policies, training standards, skills mix and skills
planning for the future. The study was completed in late 1996, just at the time of the change
in government, and, therefore, nearly a year elapsed before the new authorities addressed the
recommendations of the study. Priority recommendations include: coordination with the
universities to ensure that graduates possess the skills required by the MOH, design of
personnel management policies, staff training normns, and incentives for the redistribution of
health workers within the MOH system. The IDB-financed project is helping with some
aspects of these recommendations.
36.   (iii) Management Information Systems. The management information system sub-
component was partially successful. The project supported the conceptual and physical
design of an integrated management information system for the MOH, but this activity was
under-designed and under-costed and therefore achieved only about half of the tasks
originally planned; the remainder will be completed under the HSMP. The first phase of the
design has been concluded and the initial modules for accounting, budget, and treasury, plus
the source programs and user's manual have been delivered. The MOH needs to continue
supporting the development and implementation of this MIS, and to ensure its use as an
effective management tool.
37.   Overall Assessment of the Institutional Strengthening  Component.   The
Institutional Strengthening component succeeded in developing a number of inputs for the
reform. Each of these represents a significant step towards the goals of institutional reform.
Still, the component was less successful in going beyond specific activities to change the way
the MOH operates. Expectations may have been overly ambitious under the difficult
circumstances in Nicaragua at the time.
12



38.   During the first two years of the project, when MOH leadership of the reform was
strong-including discussion and negotiation with all stakeholders via the health system
democratization efforts-institutional aspects of the reform advanced. After this leadership
changed, the momentum slowed. Particularly important during the life of the project was the
absence of an effective planning function in the MOH, which could have served as the
counterpart to the project to guide the overall reform and guarantee its coherence.  Inability
to reach agreement with the MOF on key decentralization measures and to maneuver and
reach compromise with the political opposition on legal reforms also hampered progress.
Finally, with the 1997 change in government, the high turnover of staff trained with project
resources seriously affected the institutionalization of the reform. As a result, outputs of this
component have not been used in an integrated manner.
(b) Primary Health Care
39.   The primary health care (PHC) component aimed to change the way health services
are delivered at the primary level. At the time of project preparation, key problems included
inappropriate staffing at the primary level, and work styles-such as vertical instead of
integrated service delivery-that did not attract patients to use services. The referral system
did not work, medical supplies and drugs were unavailable or inadequate, while basic
equipment and infrastructure required maintenance or replacement. The component aimed to
introduce an emphasis on preventive care and on the integration of parallel programs, such as
family planning, at the local level.
40.   Component objectives were to: (i) redefine the model of integrated primary health
care; (ii) rationalize use of doctors at the primary level; (iii) integrate services delivered to
the population to avoid vertical programs, reduce opportunities lost to deliver services, and
increase coverage of preventive programs; (iv) improve the referral system; and (v)
rehabilitate primary infrastructure; improve medical equipment, pharmaceutical supplies and
logistical inputs for health service provision.
41.   The coverage area supported under the project was defined as seven SILAIS: Boaco,
Carazo, Granada, Masaya, North Atlantic Autonomous Region, Rio San Juan, and Rivas.
This territorial selection reflected an agreed division of labor among donor agencies. After
reaching broad agreement during project preparation on the nature of the PHC model to be
supported by all agencies, MOH agreed with the donors on specific SILAIS which each
would support.
42.   OveraUl Assessment of the PHC Component. The PHC component was partially
successful in achieving its objectives. The main accomplishments were the design of a new
model of primary health care and its agreement with all major donors in the sector. To
achieve this agreement, the MOH played a very active role in donor coordination during
project preparation. PHC physical infrastructure and equipment were also improved in the
SILAIS assisted by IDA.
43.   The new PHC model emphasized integrated attention to women and their children, a
marked departure from the vertical model that it replaced, which often required women to
13



obtain various services from different consulting rooms in a single health facility, frequently
queuing for each. Since the vertical nature of some of these programs was often due to donor
operating modalities that kept their staff and actions separate in order to facilitate monitoring
and accounting, achieving broad up-front donor consensus on the PHC model during project
preparation was a significant achievement.
44.   The introduction of the new PHC model also aimed to increase preventive activities
such as prenatal controls, health check-ups for children, improved immunization coverage
and improved quality of health services delivery. The project financed infrastructure
rehabilitation, equipment, medicines and staff training for the primary level health units of
the MOH in the seven SILAIS which IDA supported. The component aimed to change the
methodology of staff training from one of workshops to an in-service training mode, with
constant supervision from the central ministry and from the SILAIS to each of the primary
health units in their geographic areas. The project supported training of 5,734 local MOH
staff, and 1,705 change agents in the field, and the development and collection of key PHC
monitoring indicators. MOH data (Part II, Table 6) suggest both an improvement in service
coverage and in some health indicators. 2 Although the data quality is still weak and strict
causality cannot be established, the monitoring indicators are a good start, and the results
may be attributable in part to this project. These indicators are to be used for monitoring
performance under the service provision agreements and to help SILAIS identify areas to be
strengthened. In the three years that the MOH awarded national performance awards, the
winners were SILAIS supported by this project: Granada, Masaya and Carazo. On the other
hand, some component objectives remain to be met, and these present important challenges
for longer-term impact and sustainability, as discussed below.
45.   Impact. While health indicators show some improvement, they did not improve
as much as expected. This shortfall may be due to a variety of reasons. Besides the data
issues mentioned above and in Footnote 2, overall country conditions have been adverse,
with low incomes, poor nutritional status, and inadequate water and sanitation services
hampering efforts to improve health status. The project did not contemplate specific
actions to address nutritional problems or high maternal mortality rates, beyond seeking
to improve pre-natal controls. Pilots in both areas are included in the HSMP.
46.   Another factor which may have affected the rate of improvement in health indicators
relates to the lag time needed to produce such results (typically 4-5 years), and to factors
affecting component implementation. Therefore, expectations that improvements would be
reflected in indicators by 1997 were excessively ambitious. In addition, implementation
delays, particularly in the procurement process, resulted in the delivery of drugs and
equipment only towards the end of the project, presumably also lagging expected impacts..
47.   Execution of this component did not integrate fully with the line departments of the
MOH. In large degree, this was due to the latter's extreme institutional weakness. After
failing to progress with the central level of the MOH to organize integrated PHC training and
supervisions, the PCU began to work directly with the SILAIS, delivering supervision and
2For example, MOH believes that a reported increase in maternal mortality over the life of the project reflects
an increase in statistical coverage, rather than a true measure of health trends. As such, these indicators are
subject to interpretation, and some caution is needed in using them to assess component impact.
14



monitoring at the local level. IDA supported the PCU, by supervising the component every 6
months during the project life, and other donors provided similar supervision in the SILAIS
they undertook to help, but this did not replace MOH leadership. This situation largely
accounts for wide variations in application of the model.
48.   The change in government in 1997 slowed progress by changing the line directors
who had been trained in the new PHC model. PCU supervision also slowed. These factors
are reflected in the PHC component process indicators, where a previous over-compliance
with project targets shifted to shortfalls.
49.   Final reasons possibly explaining the limited improvement in indicators is that
despite efforts at training and the definition of norms for the primary level, the project was
not successful in improving the referral system for the effective coordination of the primary
and secondary levels of the system. Nor was it able to rationalize the mix and distribution of
health personnel to permit staffing of PHC facilities according to the new model.
50.   It is difficult to draw conclusions from these findings, because of the absence of
analytically rigorous evaluation of the PHC component relative to its baseline. Since donors
supported different SILAIS, and in some cases more than one donor was present in a single
SILAIS, it is very difficult to attribute causality to any single project.
51.   Sustainability. Broad initial agreement among donors and MOH augured well for
implementation of the new PHC model. However, MOH was not able to ensure consistency
during execution. While unintended, this did allow for experimentation and piloting of
different approaches, albeit without the benefit that ongoing evaluation may have provided.
A challenge facing the MOH now is to unify this model nationally to ensure consistent
delivery of quality attention. More aggressive supervision will be necessary to support and
coordinate implementation efforts.
52.   Another challenge for the sustainable implantation of the new PHC model is
presented by the ongoing recurrent finance constraints that impede full application of model
norms pertaining to medicines and supplies, as well as infrastructure repair and upgrading.
This problem reflects Nicaragua's more generalized fiscal constraints, and implies continued
heavy dependence on donor support, even for recurrent finance. The Supplementary Social
Fund was created by the Government of Nicaragua in 1998 as a means to raise additional
donor financing for priority recurrent expenditures, as these PHC inputs.
(c) Pharmaceutical Supply System
53.    The overall objectives of the pharmaceutical supply system component were to:
(i) improve the pharmaceutical policy and regulatory framework; (ii) improve the financing
of drugs and supplies; ( iii) improve the procurement, supply, and distribution of drugs and
medical supplies; and (iv) promote more rational use of drugs.
54.   (i), (ii) Policy, Regulation and Financing. The policy, regulation and financing sub-
component financed two studies: to promote the use of generic drugs and to develop a policy
15



framework for pharmaceutical donations. It also financed various initiatives to develop
policies and a legal framework to govern the pharmaceutical sector. The sub-component
succeeded in developing the technical work and reform proposals, and it achieved good
success with the Law of Medicines and Pharmacies. As indicated below, other actions
initiated by this component will be supported under the HSMP.
55.   Generic Drugs Study. The study to promote the use of generic pharmaceuticals
analyzed the feasibility of marketing generics in Nicaragua. It identified four prerequisites
for the successful introduction of generics, including strengthening the medical registry,
defining and implementing a quality control strategy, implementing a public information
campaign for the promotion and marketing of generic drugs and defining relative pricing and
financing policies. A system of pharmaco-vigilance also needs to be developed. Stakeholder
opposition (by suppliers) impeded progress with respect to generics, but the study did result
in the development of a pharmaceuticals pricing policy, which aims to introduce
transparency in the pricing of domestic and imported pharmaceuticals for the national
market, as a means to improve access for the population. This initiative succeeded in
reducing market prices of selected products.
56.   Donated Pharmaceuticals Policy Study. The study to develop a policy framework for
the management of donated pharmaceuticals prepared two manuals for the management of
pharmaceutical donations-one is targeted to donors and the other to MOH staff. The
manuals have been updated to take into account policy reforms to the pharmaceutical supply
system, and have been disseminated.
57.   Private Hospital Pharmacy Pilot.  Pilot experiences of private management of
hospital pharmacies were initiated in four Managua hospitals and three health centers with
considerable success. Financial and physical administration improved and resulted in a
decline in losses and thefts. The model is now being refined for adoption by additional
hospitals.
58.   Legal Reform  of Pharmaceutical Sector.  The revised Law of Medicines and
Pharmacies was prepared under the project and passed by the National Assembly. The
project also supported the development of the associated regulatory code.  This law
constitutes a major reform of the pharmaceuticals sector and achievement of this project,
although some modifications would be desirable, possibly in the context of the General
Health Law (para. 30), to address the following issues: NGOs and individuals are not
required to obtain specific licenses to sell drugs; urban pharmacies are subject to regulation
while rural pharmacies are exonerated; and it requires all drugs to carry a certification from
the World Health Organization. These modifications will be supported under the HSMP.
59.   Pharmaceutical Supply System.  This study evaluated the existing system and
proposed four alternatives to improve service quality and efficiency, focusing on a
restructuring of the Center for the Supply of Pharmaceutical Products (CIPS) and the
delegation of the distribution and storage functions to the private sector. While the study was
carried out as planned, its recommendations were not implemented due to the political cost
of the personnel reductions implied by the proposal. A subsequent study undertaken by the
new administration generated similar recommendations, but these also were considered to
16



controversial to implement. Modified proposals that take into account the Government's
constraints are being developed under the HSMP. At the same time, the new IDB-financed
project is supporting a pilot alternative to the CIPS.
60.   Monitoring and supervision of pharmaceutical supply system. One of the key
weaknesses of the pharmaceutical supply system was poor monitoring and supervision at the
SILAIS level. This sub-component developed and disseminated norms and a supervision
instrument which have helped institutionalize supervision of the pharmaceutical supply
system in the central MOH and the SILAIS.
61.   (iii) Improvement of the Local Supply and Distribution System. This sub-component
successfully implemented a new system to organize and simplify the management of
pharmaceuticals in 205 health service units (POSSS). The model successfully improved
inventory control, and reduced by 75% losses due to product expiration or deterioration. It
reduced average days of stock-outs in health units to 4.8, a substantial improvement over the
target of 15 days by the end of the project. The POSSS also organized the pharmacy
stockrooms, rehabilitated 27 stockrooms, introduced technical and financial norms for
pharmacy management, and trained staff to use the new system in each of the facilities where
it operated. In the later years of the project, the sub-component supported the supervision of
this new system to ensure its adequate adoption and sustainability. These experiences
provided important inputs for the revision of the Law of Medicines and Pharmacies.
62.   The POSSS was less successful in supporting full decentralization of pharmaceuticals
administration, mainly due to strong union opposition to the reform, inadequate legal
framework, and weaknesses in the capacity to program needs at the local level. For these
reasons, and for lack of adequate agreement with MOF, the MOH pharmaceuticals budget
was not able to be decentralized under the institutional strengthening component of the
project. Also, given the very high staff turnover that occurred throughout the life of the
project, the training delivered turned out to be both insufficient, and inadequate to the needs
of the reform.
63.   Despite introducing better inventory and drug management controls, the component
did not succeed in reducing the high proportion (about 40%) of MOH drugs used (consumed
or stolen) by MOH workers. The MOH hopes that the implementation and supervision of
rational drug use protocols, with continuing support under the HSMP, will partially correct
this situation (see below).
64.   (iv) Promotion of the Rational Use of Drugs. This sub-component financed a study
that proposed strategies to reduce the inappropriate handling of medicines by prescribers,
dispensers and patients. The study produced an assessment of the principal problems in
medicines use at the primary and secondary levels of the health system, piloted two strategies
(rational drug use committees and public education) to address these problems in 30 health
units and, based on this experience, proposed a new system to promote rational drug use.
The study also developed a system to monitor the quality of prescriptions, in order to
evaluate the use of medicines in health facilities. These proposals are being implemented
under the HSMP.
17



65.   Overall Assessment of the Pharmaceutical Supply System Component.   On
balance, the pharmaceutical supply system component was partially successful, achieving
major advances in improving the pharmaceutical sector regulatory framework and local
management. Still, the CIPS was not reformed and the budget was not decentralized, leaving
full control over pharmaceuticals programming, purchase, and distribution at the central
MOH. Moreover, and partly as a result, one of the main problems confronting the MOH-the
internal loss of pharmaceuticals purchased-has not been significantly improved. Powerful
interests oppose this reform. The new IDB-financed project's support for the introduction of
a parallel pharmaceuticals purchase and distribution system may be a means of resolving this
stalemate.
(c) Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Hospitals and Other Facilities
66.   The overall objectives of the rehabilitation and maintenance of hospitals component
were to: (i) finance the emergency repair of critically deteriorated hospital infrastructure,
with an emphasis on guaranteeing basic hospital operation rather than expanding or
improving services; (ii) design a maintenance system that would allow health facilities to
plan, prioritize, program, execute, supervise and evaluate their maintenance activities, using
specific methodologies and instruments; and (iii) design an instrument that would allow the
MOH to assess the recurrent cost impact of alternative investment options, so as to take these
costs into consideration in the investment planning process.
67.   (i) Hospital Rehabilitation. The Hospital Emergency Rehabilitation Fund (ERF) sub-
component exceeded expectations both in terms of demand presented to the fund, and the
pace of execution of the fund. The project supported the development and execution of a
primary facility repair system (SIROM) for this purpose, and the ERF succeeded to a large
degree in financing the emergency repairs, equipment and maintenance that allowed
hospitals to continue to function after years of maintenance neglect. The component worked
to provide quick solutions to existing problems in the hospitals and it improved standards in
hospitals. The PCU succeeded in ranking investment priorities for the ERF, and the fund's
demand-driven design allowed hospitals to determine their own specific rehabilitation
priorities. The strict rules governing the selection process for investments meant that no
incremental recurrent cost obligations were generated as a result of the component.
68.   Project design had underestimated the demand for this sub-component. Both the
ERF and SIROM exhausted available funds in the second year of project execution. In total,
the ERF and SIROM executed 410 subprojects; 323 more than contemplated at appraisal.
Even after a $500,000 reallocation of project funds to SIROM, there was still considerable
unmet need.
69.   The main weakness of this sub-component concerned the low sub-project ceilings.
The SIROM ceiling had been selected to avoid overlap with FISE activities, but still proved
too low. In the case of the ERF, the needs so overwhelmed the resources available that
hospitals presented their projects in slices, rather than evaluating overall investment
priorities. In addition, a concentration of sub-projects in the hands of a few contractors and
insufficient supervision resulted in some cases of unjustified delays, quality issues and
overbilling.
18



70.   (ii) Maintenance System for Health Facilities. This sub-component successfully
financed the two studies contemplated: infrastructure maintenance system and recurrent cost
implications. The studies were completed, but their recommendations have not been
implemented.
71.   Infrastructure Maintenance System. The study produced a set of operating manuals
for a system of preventive maintenance in MOH hospitals. Implementation costs of the
program were estimated for a sample of 15 hospitals at $500,000 per year. Implementation
has not been possible for lack of recurrent finance and of technical capacity within the MOH
to do so. The program was included as a priority item in the Supplementary Social Fund, but
so far has not received any finance via that mechanism. Launching of an adequate
maintenance system will be important to ensure the sustainability of ERF investments.
72.   Recurrent Cost Implications. This study analyzed the impact of various hospital
investments on MOH's recurrent cost budget, taking into account incremental requirements
in human resources, physical inputs and maintenance that result from new investments in
Nicaraguan hospitals financed by donor agencies. This study is available for use as the MOH
and donors consider any major new hospital investments in Nicaragua, including the
investment programs being supported under follow-up IDA- and IDB-financed projects.
73.   Overall Assessment of the Hospital Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component.
The project was successful in meeting the main objectives of this component. It helped to
finance hospital rehabilitation and equipment needs that had become critical after years of
neglect and deterioration, considerably exceeding project targets. It also succeeded in
preparing a program for hospital maintenance and a methodology for assessing the recurrent
cost implications of major new hospital improvements. The former needs to be implemented
in order to secure the sustainability of project investments, although this has not been
possible thus far because of the Government's very constrained financial situation. The latter
should be used by MOH and donor partners to ensure that decisions about new hospital
investments do not further strain the Ministry's already difficult recurrent cost situation.
(e) Technical Assistance to the INSS
74.   By developing the framework to create a market for the private provision of health
services, the technical assistance to the INSS (previously INSSBI) component was designed
as a complement to the project's support to the modernization of the MOH. At the time of
project preparation, the MOH was virtually the monopoly provider of health services in
Nicaragua, with very limited purchasing power in the market to support private providers.
By helping the INSS reform its health insurance system, the project aimed to introduce a new
source of finance for health services provision (based on tripartite contributions), both to
encourage private sector providers and to generate a source of new finance for the MOH. At
the same time, the project proposed to help modernize the INSS by designing reforms of the
two remaining insurance systems within the institution: worker's compensation and pension
insurance. The component was successful in meeting its objectives.
19



75.   (i) Health Insurance. The health insurance sub-component helped redesign the INSS
health insurance model to provide a basic package of health services to its affiliates, in line
with contributions. It achieved the implementation of a new model of health insurance, that
by 1997 covered 120,000 workers and their families. Coverage of health insurance did not
grow as fast as expected at appraisal, due in part to the limited offers of health care services
to INSS from providers outside Managua.
76.   (ii) Workman's Compensation and Pension Reform. The second sub-component
financed the design and pilot of a new workmen's compensation insurance system, and a
study of alternatives to reform the bankrupt pension system. The new system of worker's
compensation insurance has been designed and piloted, and is ready for implementation. The
financial and operational assessment of the pension fund was completed and new legislation
has been passed. IDA is supporting the pension reform under a new technical assistance
project and the IDB is preparing a related adjustment loan
77.   (iii) MIS. This sub- component financed the conceptual design of an integrated MIS
for the fNSS. Further development and implementation will be supported under the HSMP.
78.   Overall Assessment of the Technical Assistance to the INSS Component. This
component, as expected, successfully laid the groundwork for the ongoing modernization of
the INSS. Important tasks that remain, in addition to the implementation of the worker's
compensation insurance system, include: the administrative strengthening of the INSS
through the development of the management information systems; strengthening the finance
and accounting systems; and further refinement of the health insurance system through the
definition and implementation of an insurance plan for the elderly and an analysis of
alternatives to provide insurance coverage for complex pathologies. These activities will be
supported under the HSMP. Implementation of the new Pension Reform Law is being
supported under a new separate IDA technical assistance credit and a planned IDB
adjustment operation.
(g) ProjectAdministration
79.   Responsibility for project administration was entrusted to a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), financed by the project. The functions of this unit were to facilitate project
implementation by working in close coordination with the executing agencies, oversee the
implementation of the various components, and coordinate the financial flows. The PCU
was responsible for meeting project reporting requirements of both the GON and IDA.
80.   The PCU was partially successful. It coordinated the disbursement of the credit,
within 18 months of the date originally programmed, and the extensions granted were
essentially to accommodate first, a late project start, and then, a change of government that
brought extensive staff changes. The PCU managed to keep most of its core technical staff
intact through much of the project life, giving a continuity to the project. This was especially
important to compensate for the serious weaknesses of the MOH. A significant exception
occurred in the administrative area: for long periods the PCU operated without adequate
financial management staff.
20



81.   The PCU deserves enormous credit for ensuring project execution under extremely
difficult circumstances. Nevertheless, the very measures required to ensure this execution
were also those which introduced some of the most serious implementation weaknesses.
Most importantly, the PCU failed to fully integrate itself into the MOH for purposes of
project implementation.  At the time of project design, it was expected that linking
procedures through MOH line departments would be sufficient. But since the MOH was too
weak a partner to oversee PCU actions, the PCU essentially operated as a project execution
unit, insufficiently linked to the line departments.
82.   As examples, not only was the PHC component executed by the PCU largely
independently of the central level of the MOH (para. 47), so was the infrastructure
component. Although the original design of ERF and SIROM operating procedures
incorporated checks and balances via the MOH's line department, the lack of adequate MOH
participation meant that in practice, the PCU had to implement the component alone, without
the requisite technical expertise for design, contracting and supervision
83.   Project financial management was unsatisfactory.  The issuance of all project
payments through the MOH treasury did not automatically generate the required counterpart
funding reports. As a result, PCU reporting covered only the use of external funds. Project
design overestimated the capacity of the MOH treasury to adequately administer financial
reporting according to IDA requirements; and this capacity was not adequately created in the
PCU. In addition, the financial reporting system that did exist was unable to link project
accounts with implementation progress. IDA should have followed up more closely to make
sure that reporting requirements were understood by the PCU. Annual audit reports also
failed to identify these shortcomings. When supervision missions did begin to focus on this
issue, there was little progress in improving reporting practices during 1997 and 1998. IDA
could have been more energetic in seeking acceptable improvements. In preparing to close
the project, the extent of the gaps in financial accounting became apparent, including
inadequate documentation of counterpart project finance-problems not successfully
resolved until long after project closing.
84.   The PCU could have used its monitoring indicators not only to measure progress with
project implementation but also as an opportunity to press for greater coherence of the
reform within the MOH. At the same time, they did not have a clear counterpart unit within
the MOH with whom to pursue this agenda.
85.   The design of the PCU subordinated the INSS to the MOH, which proved to be
inappropriate. This design structure provoked continual tensions between MOH and 1NSS.
The concern was not just over which institution controlled the funding but also over which n
was responsible to follow up on compliance with IDA procedures and the INSS covenants.
86.   Finally, the insistence of MOH's internal comptroller that IDA approve all
expenditures (eg., not just those above the limits at negotiations) placed a heavy burden on
IDA staff. IDA requested that MOH revise its internal procedures so that this problem would
not continue under the HSMP.
21



D. Factors Affecting Project Implementation
Factors Subject to Government Control
87.   Commitment and Leadership. Vigorous and sustained national commitment to, and
leadership of, reform processes are absolutely vital for success, especially in cases where
objectives are as ambitious as they were under this project. Although that leadership was
present during project preparation and the early years of project implementation, it waivered
in the later years with excessive changes in the top management of the MOH. Political
opposition to the health sector reform remained strong throughout project implementation,
and the reluctance of MOH line staff to participate in controversial reform activities when
clear leadership was not consistently forthcoming effectively limited advances. A second
consequence of variable political leadership is that no one was consistently overseeing the
coherence of the reform process to ensure that project products were incorporated into MOH
business processes and used as intended. As a result, some project activities met their strictly
defined objectives but did not achieve the expected impact.
88.   Ambitious Project Design. The operating environment in Nicaragua was extremely
difficult, yet the GON and IDA chose to design an ambitious project, and to do their best
with it. This ambitious design included expectations of: adopting reforms in the absence of
a clear legal framework; advancing the decentralization process without the requisite up-
front inter-institutional agreements; and launching reforms in both MOH and INSS. On the
other hand, it may also be the case that the intentionally ambitious nature of this project is
what enabled it to advance as far as it did in laying the foundation for reform under such
difficult country circumstances.
89.   Staff turnover. High MOH staff rotation throughout the project life, but especially
during the last two years of execution, seriously weakened the impact of project activities.
Not only was the direct benefit of training investments lost, but the institutional memory of
those who had helped design the reforms and learned from their experiences was also lost. A
significant share of staff turnover was fully under the control of the GON. Under the HSMP,
IDA and MOH are placing a strong emphasis on the impact of staff turnover during the joint
annual review meeting of project implementation.
90.   Weak institutions.  The overall frailty of Nicaragua's institutions meant that
institutions were excessively personalized. This factor increased the importance of clear
political leadership to reform success. It also increased the vulnerability of the reform to
personnel turnover. Moreover, the technical weaknesses of the MOH's line departments
prevented many of them from being effective counterparts to the PCU for purposes of project
execution. These weaknesses resulted in delays in project implementation and often as a
result, the gradual assumption by the PCU of functions that pertained to the line department.
The new IDA- and IDB-financed projects attempt to address this issue by financing key
consultant positions in line departments to strengthen their implementation capacity.
91.   Sector Finance. The precarious budgetary situation of the MOH through the life of
the project reflected the Government's acute overall finance constraints. Despite steady
22



nominal finance increases, high population growth made a deterioration in real per capita
finance almost inevitable and implementation of the budget allocation reforms designed
under the project.
92.   Failure to Agree on Decentralization. The failure of the MOH and MOF to reach a
satisfactory agreement on the modalities for the decentralization of the personnel budget
paralyzed this crucial element of the decentralization process. MOF was reluctant to advance
this process in the absence of a suitable legal framework. By proposing to include the legal
reform of the sector, including decentralization, as a performance benchmark under the HIPC
Initiative, the Government of Nicaragua is now signaling a commitment to decentralize
budget execution.
93.   Communication.  A more systematic strategy to communicate and promote the
objectives of the project to all levels of the MOH and toward civil society would have helped
to promote the project, involve line staff more integrally in project execution, supervision,
and monitoring, and help line staff operationalize the recommendations of studies. The new
IDA- and IDB-financed projects contemplate strengthened communications activities, as
well as strengthened monitoring and evaluation actions to generate quantitative information
as an input to communications efforts.
Factors Subject to Project Coordination Unit Control
94.   Reportinz and Monitoring. At the time of project closing, financial reporting was
unsatisfactory. The basic reporting system was not adequate to the project needs in the first
place, and the quality deteriorated during 1997 and 1998. Annual audit reports consistently
failed to identify shortcomings of the reporting system until late in the life of the project.
IDA shares responsibility for this problem, and for failing to insist upon a prompt resolution
of the problem, once detected. Once the gaps in financial reporting became more evident,
the PCU was unable to resolve them quickly and reconciliation of information and
documentation continued until some time after credit closing.
95.   Isolation from line Ministry. In response to weaknesses in the MOH, the PCU acted
increasingly in isolation of the line departments.  While it thereby succeeded in
implementing the project mostly according to schedule, the failure of the PCU to work more
closely with their line counterparts undercut the institutionalization and sustainability of the
reform. Strong leadership from Ministers would have been necessary to enstUre that the
PCU-line department relationship worked. Strengthening line departments with technical
assistance can help, and the personal commitment of the PCU to link with line departments is
essential.
Factors not Subject to Government Control
96.   Imperfect costing of the project at the time of project preparation was largely the
result of poor information bases within Nicaragua as to the extent of infrastructure
rehabilitation and maintenance needs. The Borrower's lack of experience in preparing
projects, and IDA's inexperience in Nicaragua also contributed.  As a result, the
infrastructure components ran out of resources early in the project life, and the low cost
ceilings for ERF and SIROM subprojects may have distorted some subproject selection.
23



Also, the project simply did not provide finance for many activities necessary for its
execution. Fortunately, the Cuenta 1000 and PHRD financing of some preparation activities
that continued during the implementation period helped to cushion some of the impact.
97.   Unfamiliarity  with  IDA  procedures, especially procurement, caused  delays
throughout project execution.   Major delays and  misunderstandings  in  project
implementation were also caused by the failure to translate into Spanish and use key
documents (Staff Appraisal Report, Development Credit Agreement). Although the draft
SAR had been translated at project appraisal, it was not updated and failed to be used as a
working tool for the project.
98.   Natural disasters affected project advances, causing reprogramming of activities to
adjust for these factors. In particular, Hurricane Cesar in September 1996 created emergency
needs that were addressed under the fifth amendment to the Development Credit Agreement.
Hurricane Mitch in October 1998 also created emergency needs, to which IDA responded by
reprogramming remaining resources under the Credit.
E. Project Sustainability
99.   The sustainability of project activities is rated as uncertain, but prospects are
reasonable because of continuing support under a new IDA-financed project, Health Sector
Modernization Project (Credit 3084-NI), and an IDB project, Support for MOH Hospital
Modernization (NI-0024).  The HSMP is a ten-year adaptable program  credit. This
instrument appears to be as a better vehicle to support what is inevitably a long-term process,
than is a traditional investment credit.
100.  The financial sustainability of the health sector reform  is closely linked to
Nicaragua's overall financial sustainability. Although GON has been devoting a growing
share of its operating budget to the social sectors, acute fiscal constraints certainly affect the
pace of the reform progress. Debt relief under the enhanced HIPC initiative will be helpful,
but continued donor support will also be important for many years to come
101.  Finally, the sustainability of the health reform process will depend in very large part
upon the strength and consistency of its national leadership. This factor is of greater
importance in Nicaragua than in some countries which may have stronger institutions, in
terms of technical capacity and continuity.
F. IDA Performance
102.  In retrospect, at the design stage IDA should have displayed greater realism with
respect to the health reform process and assisted the borrower to develop a less ambitious
project. Although it had only recently resumed operational work in Nicaragua in the early
l990s after a fairly lengthy hiatus, and therefore lacked in-depth country knowledge, IDA's
experience with health reform efforts elsewhere should have been sufficient to indicate at
least a longer implementation period for such fundamental changes as the project involved.
24



103.  Thereafter, IDA performance was generally supportive through to project closing.
Inevitable staff rotation did occur during implementation, but every effort was made to
ensure continuity. The consultant team remained remarkably stable through implementation,
delivering frequent and sustained project supervision. Both task managers who rotated away
from the project returned from their new assignments to participate in subsequent missions in
support of continuity of project supervision. Still, because of weaknesses and considerable
staff rotation in the MOH itself, especially in the last two years of the project, the Borrower
considers that even more direct IDA supervision was needed. In that regard, the Borrower
sees the August 1998 reopening of the Resident Mission in Nicaragua as a positive step.
104.  Finally, in view of the extremely weak operating environment in Nicaragua, one area
where IDA should have paid more attention concerned financial management of the project.
The failure to insist from the outset on acceptable financial reporting standards and
appropriate financial management staff within the PCU, or the alternative of external
management of project financial administration, led to difficulties during the later years of
the project. These included, on the one hand, difficulties in reconciling accounts and records
and, on the other, demands from MOH authorities for IDA pre-approval of all procurement
activities rather than only those below agreed thresholds.
G. Borrower Performance
105.  The project identification and preparation phases of this project were considered
exemplars of IDA-client cooperation. Borrower performance during the project launch and
early implementation period were also quite strong. However, MOH staff rotation, starting
in 1995 with the first of a series of changes in minister, affected project momentum.
Extensive personnel turnover in 1997 cost a year of implementation progress, and caused a
significant deterioration in project impact, as substantial investments in training and learning
for institutional development were lost.
H. Outcome
106.  The ICR team's overall assessment of project implementation and results is that they
were partially satisfactory. However, the ICR ratings format permits only a 'satisfactory' or
'unsatisfactory' classification (Part II, Table 1), and the overall assessment is therefore rated
unsatisfactory, as project implementation and results did not fully meet objectives.
107.  This was an ambitious project, implemented under very difficult conditions: it was
the first health sector project in Nicaragua, launched on a weak institutional base and in the
context of broad political and economic transition. Nonetheless, IDA and the Government
intentionally opted for an ambitious operation, while explicitly identifying the risks in the
SAR and attempting to account for them in project design. Ultimately, the project did meet
some of its objectives, but fell short in others. The achievements were important, they were
attained under unusually difficult circumstances, and the project succeeded in building a
foundation for reform that is now being supported under follow-up operations by IDA and
other donors.
25



I. Future Operations
108.  The project has been immediately followed by a new project, the Health Sector
Modernization Project (3084-NI), which became effective December 8, 1998. This project is
complemented by a new IDB project, Support for MOH Hospital Modernization (NI-0024),
and they are both being coordinated by a single PCU, to maximize coordination and
operational efficiency in implementation. These new projects are being executed by the line
departments of the MOH, but with considerable technical support, both through change
agents contracted to work within the line departments as well as through technical support
via the PCU. The new projects build upon the base created by the HSRP and their design
takes into account many of the lessons learned during implementation. Many of the key
reform activities begun under the first project are now being advanced (implementation of
study recommendations, consolidation of new management tools, scaling-up of pilot
experiences) under these two new projects.
J. Key lessons learned
109.  The strategy of usingfairly independent project units to manage project execution, as
a means of compensating for weak or inexperienced line agency counterparts, can
work against the objective of maintaining a strong sense of counterpart ownership.
To a large degree it is up to the national leadership to make this inherently difficult
relationship work.
One impediment to fully meeting project objectives was inadequate implementation capacity
in the MOH. The PCU compensated for weak institutional capacity by undertaking a
significant burden of execution and supervision itself. In such a situation, a balance needs to
be sought between maximizing efficiency of implementation and building ownership. The
PCU needs to act more as a coordinator, fostering implementation through the line
departments, and must avoid becoming the sole implementation and supervision agent. In
turn, the MOH needs to demonstrate its ongoing commitment to the reform by strengthening
technical and managerial capabilities, and by hiring and retaining skilled personnel (see
below). Overall institutional strengthening will also be essential to reducing the dependence
of the reform  on a few key individuals.  HSMP is supporting extensive technical
strengthening of the MOH via finance of change agents in line departments of MOH. Should
the MOH's institutional weakness continue to impede the ability of the PCU to act as
coordinator, then the PCU may need to be converted to a project executing unit. This would
require a different legal structure, and its relationship to line executing departments would
need to be defined accordingly. This outcome is less desirable, for its potentially negative
impact on ownership.
26



110.  Flexibility and simplicity of project design are critical to avoid overwhelming the
institutional capacities of counterparts, especially in cases offirst projects within a
sector.
Although maximum simplicity in design for an ambitious health sector reform project is
inherently difficult, the project did aim to keep individual activities as simple as possible.
Nonetheless, it is clear in retrospect that the objectives defined at the outset were overly
ambitious for the country situation in the early 1990s, given the weak institutional setting,
depth of economic and political transition which was underway, and lack of experience of
counterparts with IDA operations.
111.  Clear and sustained government commitment and leadership is indispensable to the
success of major reform efforts. Areas requiring cooperation among line institutions
need to be addressed at the outset of a project to avoid delays during
implementation.
For ambitious sector reform programs such as the one proposed to be implemented under this
project, national leadership turns out to be the single most important factor affecting project
success. When the minister made a broad based effort to include stakeholders in discussions,
fuilly incorporate the project (and the PCU) in MOH activities, and when the reform was led
by a strong and committed team, the project showed its best prospects for success. When
these elements were diminished or lost, the prospects for reform were seriously weakened.
Also, reform programs need to be recognized as policies of the state, and not of a particular
administration. In this regard, agreement with the Government to maintain core teams
largely intact is vital for project success. The massive staff turnover in 1997 severely
affected this project. Finally, the project fell short of some goals due to inadequate
coordination across government institutions. In particular, the project design could have
been better in respecting the separate identity of the INSS, while supporting strengthened
technical coordination between MOH and INSS for the development of the insurance
systems. Failure to forge an explicit operating agreement with the MOF to support MOH's
adjusted per capita budget allocation system and its ongoing budget decentralization process
also resulted in major setbacks to the project.
112.  For complex sector reform programs involving a multiplicity of actions by different
actors and the gradual build-up of institutional capacities to implement and sustain
the changes, the adaptable program loan/credit instrument may be preferable to a
one-time sector investment project.
The project design intended to allow the MOH to implement its reforms in phases, to build
needed institutional capacity gradually, and to demonstrate results in the initial phase before
continuing to implement broader reform. In practice, several reforn activities did not
advance beyond design, due to MOH inability to build and retain the requisite capacity.
The instrument of a sector investment credit was not ideal for this reform project. The new
adaptable program credit, which was not available at the time of project preparation in 1993,
is a better vehicle to support the reform, due to its flexibility and annual review process.
27



113.  When there is a large donor presence in a country and, hence, the potential for
overlap of policy advice and project activities, effective donor coordination is
essential throughout project implementation and not just during the period ofproject
design.
Although a significant effort to coordinate donors was made during project design, this effort
lapsed during implementation. As a result, some initiatives have developed inconsistently or
in contradiction of each other, in particular the new PHC model at the SILAIS level and local
efforts at management strengthening (including management systems that vary from SILAIS
to SILAIS). The absence of a strong technical leadership of the reform also reduced the
ability of the MOH to coordinate donors during implementation. Similarly, the absence of
clearly agreed mechanisms for coordination meant that such coordination as did occur
among donors, although often well-intentioned, was ad hoc rather than institutional. This is
an area that the donors themselves should seek to improve.
28



Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Nicaragua
Health Sector Reform Project
Credit 2556-NI
Part II - Statistical Annexes
Page
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulated Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Monitoring Actions for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Appendix A: Government's Contribution to the ICR
Appendix B: Cofinancier's Comments: Government of Norway
Appendix C: Map
29



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Achievement of Obiectives            Substantial       Partial  Neali2ible    Not apDlicable
Macro Policies                                                                 X
Sector Policies                                   X
Financial Objectives                              X
Institutional Development                         X
Physical Objectives                    X
Poverty Reduction                                 X
Gender Issues                                     X
Other Social Objectives                                                        X
Environmental Objectives                                                       X
Public Sector Management                          X
Private Sector Development                        X
Other (specify)
Likelv         Unlikely               Uncertain
B. Proiect Sustainability                                                        X
Highly
Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Deficient
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                                           X
Preparation Assistance                                                   X
Appraisal                                                                X
Supervision                                        X
Highly
Satisfactory           Satisfactorv            Deficient
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                        X
Implementation                                                           X
Covenant Compliance                                X
Operation (financial management)                                         X
Highly                                           Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactorv
E. Assessment of Outcome                                           X I/
1/ See comments in Executive Summary and para. 106 of ICR, explaining that completion overall
assessment was partially satisfactory; however, as ratings do not include this category, project has been
rated Unsatisfactory as it did not fully meet all objectives.
30



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit  Purpose                                                                                         Year   of  Status
Title                                                                               _                        approval
Preceding
Operations
1. 2302-NI   Economic Recovery Credit I.                                                                     1992         closed
2. 2434-NI   Social Fund I. This project complements the health project by financing rehabilitation of primary health care  1993  closed
facilities targeted according to the country's poverty map.
A condition for this credit was a letter of social sector policy which outlines the GON's overall social strategy
and defines in particular the GON's priorities for the health sector, including the improvement of primary
health care, the management of the health sector and financing arrangements for the health sector.
3. 2631-NI   ERC II                                                                                           1994        closed
Following
Oerations
1. 2689-NI    Education I                                                                                    1995         implementation
2. 2767-NI    Social Fund II. As first social fund project.                                                   1996        closed
3. 2690-NI    Institutional Development Credit                                                                1995        implementation
4. 2918-NI    Rural Municipalities                                                                            1997        implementation
5. 3084-NI    Health II. This credit is a new APL, for the modernization of the health sector of Nicaragua, building upon  1998  implementation
the foundations of the first project. Its components closely parallel those of the first project: Primary health
care and nutrition: extension of the integrated PHC model including maternal and child care, targeted
nutrition support, women's centers to reduce maternal mortality, epidemiological surveillance, and
monitoring and evaluation; hospital modernization: management agreements, hospital rehabilitation fund and
hospital management demonstration projects;  modernization of MINSA: pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies, new organizational and regulatory framework, health financing, strategic planning, MIS, human
resources, and IEC; social security reform: institutional modernization of INSS, expansion of health
insurance, and scaling up of workmen's compensation pilot; and project administration.
6. 3142-NI    Social Fund III. As first social fund project.                                                  1999        implementation
31



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                                  Date Planned        Date  actual/latest
estimate
1. Identification (Executive Project Summary)           7/92                1/93
2. Preparation                                          7/92-7/93           3/93-9/93
3. Appraisal*                                           7/93                9/93
4. Negotiations"                                        9/93                11/93
5. Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)         10/93               11/17/93
6. Board Presentation                                   12/93               12/16/93
7. Signing                                              12/93               12/17/93
8. Effectiveness                                        3/94                3/15/94
9. Midterm Review (if applicable)                       6/95                7/3/95
10. Project Completion                                  6/97                12/98
11. Credit Closing                                      12/97               12/31/98
* Appraisal discussions took place in Miami, due to physical insecurity in Managua as result of transport
workers' strike.
** Negotiations took place in Washington, DC.
Project Timetable
Apr-01
Jul-98
'I, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ W
,~Oct-95                                                         Pa
co
0M    Jan-93                                                        Actual I
May-90
Aug-87
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8
Processing Steps
32



Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year              FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97       FY98    FY99
Appraisal Estimate         3.0        6.7        10.8      15.0       0          0
Actual                     0.6        2.0       6.9        10.1       13.0       14.3
(calendar year data)
Actual as %  of revised  20.0         29.85     63.89      67.33      87.67      95.33
estimate
Date of last disbursement:  May 11, 1999
Disbursements
16
14
~12
o 10                                       -- Appraisal Estimate
-u_Actual (calendar
a6                      ~                        ~17vi .. -  <......................  -.year data)
4 
2 -              
0~
FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
IDA Fiscal Year
33



Table 5: Key Monitoring Actions
Objectives       Actions                                Timetable (SAR)    Status/Remarks
I. Institutional   Redefine MOH mission to focus on     Nov. 1993          Signed policy
Strengthening of  normative and supervisory functions, with               letter covering
MOH               service delivery and some management                    these topics was
functions to be decentralized to the                     presented to IDA
SILAIS.                                                  at negotiations of
credit.
A. Delegation of   Decentralize budget process to allow all    Review of process   Official document
authority to      SILAIS to execute an increasing share of   by March 31, 1995; furnished to IDA
SILAIS           the budget by line item categories.    implementation of   7/6/95.
action plan no later  Independent study
than June 1, 1995   furnished to IDA
3/29196.
Improve resource allocation system    Pilot by Jan 1,   Implemented for
through pilot testing of corrected per capita  1995;     goods & services
mechanism and study of per capita cost of  Implement action    budget during '95
service delivery mechanism            plan by Sept. 1,   and '96. Will be
1995              reinstated and
expanded under
3084-NI. Study
not implemented
as designed.
Design and implement cost accounting  Action plan to be    Implementation
system to provide inputs for financial  implemented by   begun in 1995;
management, setting up of fees, and   Feb. 1, 1995       now operating in
costing of services for resource allocation              17 SILAIS and 30
system                                                   hospitals. Manual
system,
information is
usually late, and
suffers high
personnel
turnover. To
expand to all
health units will
require more
supervision and
monitoring.
Design and implement service provision    Implementation in   Complied, then
arrangements with SILAIS              all SILAIS by Jan   suspended. Use
1, 1995           of service
provision
agreements
resumed, with
improved design,
covering all
SILAIS and some
Iprimary units.
Study progress and potential of cost  Implement          Implemented in
recovery measures                     recommendations    part. 3084-NI
_ by Feb. 1,1995  will continue.
34



Objectives       Actions                                Timetable (SAR)    Status/Remarks
Human Resources  Develop human resources planning       Annual             Completed
Development      capability and design training programs,    management
particularly for the management level at    training plans
both the MOH central level and at the
SILAIS
- study of health labor market, with  Implement          Study presented
particular attention to increasing the  recommendations    12/96; accepted
number of nurses, and presentation of  by Jan 1, 1995    by new MOH
action plan                                              authorities 12/97.
Plan to be
implemented
under 3084-NI.
MIS               Develop MIS, provide equipment, and   Implement action    Still in progress.
train staff in using new modules on human   plan from Feb. 1,
resources, finance, budget and accounting,  1995
and pharmaceuticals inventory according
to defined action plan.
II. Primary      Redefine PHC model to ensure that: (i)
Heatth Care      PHC services are managed locally; (ii)
vertical programs become integrated; and
_(iii) preventive care is emphasized
Define essential drugs list and replenish  Essential drugs list  Complied in 1994
basic inventory of essential drugs and  as disbursement
medical supplies                      condition
Train service delivery personnel for more   Annual progress  Complied
effective prevention and treatment of  report and work   annually
priority health problems              plan
Promote better health through mass media   Annual progress    Complied
communication, distribution of educational  report and work  annually
materials and local dissemination     plan
Rehabilitate health posts and health centers  Annual progress  Complied
and small water and sanitation projects, in  report and work  annually
coordination with FISE; basic medical and  plan
office equipment would also be funded
Monitoring of progress in reaching target   Annual progress  Complied
indicators                            report             annually
III.             Reduce constraints to use of generics;  Studies by Sept.    Studies delivered,
Pharmaceutical   prepare legal changes for purchases by  30, 1994          implementation
Supply and        SILAIS, and prepare strategy on external   Implementation by   under 3084-NI
Distribution      donations                             Dec. 1, 1994
System                                                                     Pilot in 1997,
Pilot private pharmacy to test different cost  Pilot by June 30,    expansion under
recovery mechanisms at secondary level    1995; implement   3084-NI
action plan by Aug.
1, 1995
Improve forecasting, suppliers network,    Annual and mid  Complied
flexible delivery contracts, use of private   term reviews  annually
sector, streng;then the MIS at CIPS,
supervision, increase financial
Iresponsibility at health facilities
Rational Use of Drugs: Study to measure   Study by Dec 31,    Study completed
the magnitude of the problem and      1994.              in 1998
35



Objectives       Actions                                Timetable (SAR)    Status/Remarks
recommend changes; improve pharmacy
and medical school curricula; train health  Implement action    To be
personnel in the application and promotion  plan by March 1,   implemented
of rational use                       1995               under 3084-NI
IV.               Rehabilitate health posts and health centers
Rehabilitation of  included under the PHC component of
hospitals and    project; design and implement a
other facilities  maintenance system.
Rehabilitate hospitals under a demand-  Annual reports on   Complied
driven mechanism using predetermined  progress and       annually, not
basic and priority selection criteria  investment plans    always on time.
for coming year to
be provided by
November 30 of
each year.
Conduct studies for (i) determination of  Studies and action   Studies
maintenance needs and propose system;    plan by Dec 31,  completed, but
(ii) examine recurrent cost implications of   1994.      action plan not
investments.                          Implementation by  implemented.
March 1, 1995
V. Technical      Help lNSS design and implement health  Design by June    Complied.
Assistance to    insurance program, which would purchase   1994
INSS              services from the MOH                 MIS by Dec 1994
Management
support by Dec
1996
Help INSS design, implement and train  Design by March    Design May 1995.
personnel for a workman's compensation    1995           Implementation
program                               Implement by Feb.  under 3084-NI.
1996
Help analyze the financial status of the  Study by March  Complied.
pension system and evaluate alternative  1995
pension systems
36



Table 6.A
Primary Health Care
Process Indicators
Seven SILAIS 1994-1997
Year 1:1994            Year 2:1995             Year 3:1996               Year 4:1997
Intervention                   Coverage Indicator                   Program   Executed  Program   Executed  Program   Executed  Program   Executed
Actions of       % of children under 5 w/growth monitoring &             45.00%      44.30%       50.00%      43.00%      55.00%       53.00%      55.00%         50.00%
Promotion and    heaKh check-ups (weighted avarage by population)
Prevention for   % of Mothers with 4 or more prenatal controls           55.00%      30.40%       60.00%      32.00%      65.00%      65.00%          65%         44.00%
women and         % of fully immunized children under 1 BCG              70.00%      86.30%       75.00%      94.00%      80.00%       92.00%      80.00%         93.00%
child care       % of fully immunized children under 1 with Polio        85.00%      47.00%       89.00%      98.00%      92.00%       93.00%      92.00%         95.00%
% of fully immunized children under I with Measles     70.00%      40.40%       72.00%      90.00%      75.00%       88.00%      75.00%          91.00%
% of fully immunized children under 1 with DPT         75.00%      43.35%       80.00%      92.00%      85.00%       89.00%      85.00%         90.00%
% of pregnant mothers immunized for tetanus toxoid         N/A      6.38%          N/A      34.00%          N/A      22.00%         N/A            24%
% of Children under 5 assisted in ARI programs             N/A         N/A         N/A      31.30%          N/A      22.50%         N/A          42.00%
% of the supervised personnel with appropriate use of
clinical histories in prenatal and child health care       N/A         N/A         N/A      60.00%          N/A        85%          N/A            90%
% of Women using ORT in case of diarrhea                      IT IS CONSIDERED EQUAL TO THE NUMBER OF CONSULTATIONS FOR E.D.A
% of missed opportunities of
immunization,                                                                               30                         5                     5
prenatal care or                                                                            60                         5                     5
child health care                                         N/A         N/A          N/A      70             N/A         3            N/A      3
Nutritional
Education       % of low birthweight (less than 2,500 gr)                  8.7          8.1         8.4         8.7           8          6.7           8               9
Advise in Health    % of supervised centers and posts with all necessary
and nutrition    education material                                          N/A         N/A         N/A          41          N/A          56         N/A              69
Source: MINSA, SILAIS and MUNICIPALITIES information Sytems
N/A:    Not available, the official registry of information for Health Ministry did not contemplate the collection of this data.
37



Table 6.B
Primary Health Component
Process Indicators
Sevn SILAIS 1994 -199}7
Year1: 1994            Year2: 1995              Year 3: 1996              Year4: 1997
Intervention                Coverage Indicator             Program   Executed  Program   Executed  Program   Executed jProgram   Executed
EQUALS THE NUMBER OF USERS FOR THE FOLLOWING SERVICES
Health Education    Number of beneficiaries of health                  * PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
education programs                                 * HEALTH UNITS
Improvement of      % of missed opportunities for family           N/A          N/A         N/A          N/A         N/A            3          N/A            3
Family planning     planning education
advice              % of women using methods for family             N/A         N/A          N/A         N/A          N/A         N/A          N/A         N/A
planning under 20 years old
Registered abortions as % of expected          4.7          4.2          3.8         3.4           3            4           3          3.9
pregnancies
% of women of reproductive age
(MEF), covered with pills, condoms          16.00%      12.00%       20.00%      16.00%       24.00%      20.00%       24.00%       20.00%
IUDs, sterilization                               I
Integrated Delivery    Number of posts with at least 2              125         150          150         177         175          140          175         123
of PHC Services     auxiliary nurses
Number of posts covered with outreach           80          190         100          190         115          180         115          110
physician programs
Number of centers & Posts closed more          N/A            0         N/A          27          N/A          N/A         N/A          N/A
than 5 consecutive days
Number of centers & posts with the             N/A          N/A         N/A          70          N/A          130         N/A          180
necessary materials, drugs and paper
to provide an integrated service
Number of area nurse supervisions per          N/A          N/A         N/A           12         N/A           12         N/A           12
center and post per moth
Number of centers and post with                N/A         N/A          N/A          173         N/A          178         N/A          190
available water and latrines
Source: MINSA, SILAIS and Municipalities information systems
NA:     Not Available, the Official registry of information for Health Ministry did not contemplate the collection of this data.
38



Table 6.C
Primary Health Care Component
Results Indicators
Seven SILAIS 1994 -1997
Year 1:1994            Year 2:1995              Year 3:1996               Year 4: 1997
Intervention        Coverage Indicator                     Program   Executed  Program   Executed  Program   Executed  Program   Executed
Registered infant mortality as result of        67          21           64           22          60           22          60           23
diarrhea, respiratory diseases and
perinatal causes
Infant mortality    Principal causes:
by cause            EDA                                                           4                        4                        5                         5
IRA                                                          3                         2                        3                      2.5
Deaths due to                                                10                       10                     20.5                       11
EDA, IRA, Perinatal causes, as a
% of total infant mortality                                 81                        73                      129                       80
Registered measles mortality rate
(100,000 per rate)                              10            0           5            0           1            0            0           0
% of traditional birth attendants             60%          30%         70%          41%         80%          42%          80%         31%
trained by MOH
Strengthening of    % of registered matemal and infant
an adequate system    deaths due to lack of services or poor
for emergency       quality of referral                             N/A         N/A          N/A         N/A          N/A         56.6         N/A         68.8
and maternity       % of institutional births
services            (weighted avarage by population)            53.00%       57.30%      56.00%       58.00%      60.00%       61.00%       60.00%      68.00%
Registered maternal mortality rate
(Rate per 100,000)                             145          11          130          159         120          144         120          163
Source: MINSA, SILAIS and Municipalities information systems
': Infant mortality based on live births registered by MINSA
: The maternal mortality vigilance system was implemented, and resulted in increased coverage and reporting.
39



Table 6.D
INTEGRAL CARE FOR WOMEN - PRENATAL CONTROLS
COMPARATIVE PERIOD 94-95-96-97
SILAIS              PRENATAL COTROL                    CONCENTRATION                          4 or more controls          Coverage in first trimester
94         95        96        97       94       95      96       97          941     95       961      97      94       95       961    97
MASAYA           16,383      16,073   15,856    18,437       2        3        3      3.0             34.0    37.0    59.0        43     45.0    43.0    48.0
GRANADA          13,602      15,597   13,456    12,670       2        3        3      3.0             38.0    38.0    43.0        38     48.0    46.0    44.0
CARAZO           12,320      12,881   14,020    15,703       2        3        3      3.0             35.0    40.0    50.0        33     37.0    44.0    47.0
RIVAS            13,073      14,102   13,802    13,751       2        3        4      4.0             46.0    52.0    55.0        41     40.0    48.0    52.0
BOACO             9,931      10,041   11,245    10,771       2        2        3      3.0             29.0    35.0    37.0        41     38.0    46.0    43.0
RAAN             16,905      16,430   21,477    18,837       1        2        2      2.0             24.0    30.0    28.0        34     33.0    35.0    35.0
RIO SAN           4,987       5,794    5,110     6,663       1        2        2      3.0             16.0    26.0    43.0        37     34.0    38.0    42.0
JUAN          I__    _    _ _  _ _    _  _    _  _ _                                     I_                             __    _I
NATIONAL       346,217    353,622  360,053   386,120       2        3      2.6      3.0     N/A    30.0    34.0    39.0         33     40.0    42.0    43.0
Source: DGPSI - MINSA
N/A: Not available, the official registry of information for Health Ministry did not contemplate the collection of this data.
40



Table 6.E
INTEGRAL CARE FOR WOMEN - BIRTHS AND PERINATAL COVERAGE
COMPARATIVE PERIOD 94 - 95 - 96 - 97
SILAIS                % OF INSTITUTIONAL BIRTHS             % OF HOME BIRTHS                 % OF PERINATAL COVERAGE
94      95       96       97       94       95      96       97       94       95       96       97
MASAYA                    64.2    66.9    73.0    76.2    35.4    32.6    26.3    23.5    39.0    43.0    55.9    54.9
GRANADA                   66.7    70.6    74.0    77.5    32.8    28.9    25.4    22.2    36.0    47.2    47.3    48.4
CARAZO                    69.6    69.9    73.2    79.9    30.3    29.8    26.5    19.8    30.0    34.1            52.6    57.2
RIVAS                     62.6    61.9    67.0    74.1    36.0    37.2    32.0    25.4    44.0    47.4    61.0    53.1
BOACO                     51.2    51.3    47.1      59.4    48.5    48.2    46.0    40.1    39.0    36.4    42.2    62.4
RAAN                      47.5    52.0    51.6    55.7    51.2    47.6    48.0    43.8    53.0    53.4    21.8    48.9
RIO SAN JUAN              39.4    33.4    39.0    57.7    59.3    65.3    60.2    41.7    24.0    40.1            27.8     25.8
NATIONAL TOTAL            65.9    66.6    68.0    74.5    23.8    32.5    31 .0    24.7    31.01    33.4    43.6    46.9
Source: DGSI/MINSA
41



Table 6.F
INTEGRAL CARE FOR WOMEN - ABORTIONS, TETANUS IMMUNIZATIONS and
FAMILY PLANNING
COMPARATIVE PERIOD 94 - 95 - 96 - 97
Abortion rate, as a % of estimated  % of women of childbearing age        FAMILY PLANNING CONTROLS
pregnancies                        l |immunized against tetanus toxoid                                     l l
SILAIS            94  r  95         96       97       94       95       96       97       94       95      96        97
MASAYA                        5.9     4.8      5.3       4.6      6.0    23.0    22.3       26.0  27,458   22,427   24,197     28,424
GRANADA                       5.1     4.1      5.3       4.6      3.3    29.0    20.4       27.0  29,879   23,020   23,577     19,716
CARAZO                        4.7     4.6      6.1       4.8      4.8    28.0    19.5       21.0  34,207   20,051   19,587     20,928
RIVAS                         4.9     3.6      5.2       3.9     5.6    19.0    13.0        12.0  33,030   19,423   18,460     17,110
BOACO                         3.2     2.7      2.2       4.4    10.3    25.0    15.0        26.0  10,542   7,751   11,968      13,968
RAAN                          2.7     4.1      2.3       2.5    15.8    52.0    26.6        22.0  23,308   19,638   27,480     21,546
RIO SAN JUAN                  4.1     3.6      2.2       1.9      5.5    61.0    41.3       33.0   7,056    5,994    6,835      9,654
NATIONAL TOTAL                4.1     3.4      4.0       3.9     6.8    23.0    19.6        22.0  661,869  456,250  500,697    523,826
SOURCE: DGSI/MINSA
42



Table 6.G
MATERNAL MORTALITY RATES /100,000 registered live births
COMPARATIVE PERIOD 94 - 95 - 96 - 97
MATERNAL MORTALITY                 LIVE BIRTHS                 MATERNAL MORTALITY RATE
SILAIS                         94       95       96      97       94       95       96       97       94      95       96       97
MASAYA                             3        6       6        3    6,630    5,899    5,580    5,668    45.25   131.61    107.5   55.48
GRANADA                            1        4       2        5    4,866    4,402    2,969    4,020    20.55   126.74    67.4  134.81
CARAZO                             2        3       5        3    4,717    4,820    4,792    4,140     42.4   86.36    104.3   75.82
RIVAS                              5        2       1        2    3,969    4,467    3,373    3,263   125.97    62.46    29.7   66.33
BOACO                              1        0       1        3    3,221    3,283    3,111    2,802    31.05       0     32.1   121.02
RAAN                               7       12      15       15    3,525    3,589    2,587    4,016   205.58   452.83    579.8   388.1
R.S. JUAN                          0        1       2        5    1,405    1,564    1,392    1,065   198.58   108.58    143.7  469.92
NATIONAL TOTAL                    87      128      155     159  117,021  114,451  107,368  105,486    74.35   159.36    144.4  163.25
Source: DGPI/MINSA
43



Table 6.H
INTEGRAL TREATMENT FOR CHILDREN - GROWTH MONITORING - IRA
COMPARATIVE PERIOD 94 - 95 - 96 - 97
MEDICAL CHECK-UPS FOR <         % OF CHILDREN WITH LOW              % OF CHILDREN < 5 YEARS             % IRA TREATED WITH
SILAIS                           1 YEAR OLD                BIRTH WEIGHT                       TREATED FOR IRA                     ANTIBIOTICS < 5 YEARS OLD
94      95       96       97       94       95       96       97       94       95       96       97       94       95       96       97
MASAYA                   24,055   28,384   26,926   32,796      7.2      8.1      7.0      9.9              12.0     19.0      6.0      N/A     66.2    64.0    49.2
GRANADA                   15,616   15,977   14,221   14,815     8.6      8.8      6.6      8.2               5.0     24.0      8.0      N/A     57.8    57.0      47.2
CARAZO                   14,648   17,868   18,033   20,897      8.3     10.4      6.8      9.0              18.0     31.0    12.0       N/A     50.9    45.0      39.2
RIVAS                    15,697   19,102   16,889   19,553      9.0      8.0      5.6      8.7              11.0    22.0   110.0       N/A      51.2    48.0      43.8
BOACO                    13,108   13,091   14,411   17,132      9.1      9.6      6.0      8.9               9.0     22.5      5.0     N/A      41.6    32.0      29.2
RAAN                     18,791   19,992   10,159   24,350      5.6      5.9      6.6      7.3               5.0     16.0      5.0     N/A      46.7    48.0      42.8
R.S.JUAN                  6,338    7,938    7,273    9,830      7.6      7.6      3.6      8.2              18.0     31.0    22.0      N/A      57.6    65.0    44.1
NATIONAL TOTAL          376,863  455,467  452,279  519,775      8.0      8.7      6.7      8.9      N/A      8.0     22.5      7.0      N/A     66.2    53.0    45.3
SOURCE: DGPSI - MINSA
N/A:    Not available, the official registry of information for Health Ministry did not contemplate the collection of this data.
44



Table 6.1
IMMUNIZATION COVERAGE RATES FOR MINORS < 1 YEAR OLD ACCORDING
TO BIOLOGICAL TYPE
COMPARATIVE PERIOD 94 - 95 - 96 - 97
SILAIS              |         POLIO                    |                  BCG              |          DPT3                     |         MEASLES                   |
94      95       96       97       94   1  95        96       97       94       95       96       97       94       96       96       97
MASAYA                   47.0    97.0   100.0    100.0    89.4    94.0    87.0    96.0    46.0           85.0     92.0    99.0      41.6    83.0    90.0       100.0
GRANADA                  40.4   100.0   100.0    100.0    82.0    92.0    92.0    88.0    32.0    97.0    97.0             99.0    29.0    91.0    98.0        93.0
CARAZO                   33.0    91.0    86.0       92.0    74.0    79.0    88.0    87.0        32.3    75.0    78.0       92.0    29.7    64.0    83.0        88.0
RIVAS                    51.0   100.0    80.0       84.0    80.0    94.0    78.0    81.0        48.0    86.0    76.0       80.0    48.0    91.0    75.0        78.0
BOACO                    79.4   100.0    99.0    100.0   100.0o   100.0   100.0   100.0         73.0   100.0    96.0   100.0    77.6   100.0    89.0    100.0
RAAN                     56.5   100.0    89.0    92.0    93.3    100.0   100.0   100.0    50.4   100.0    87.0    85.0    41.0   100.0    84.0                 88.0
RIO SAN JUAN             22.0   100.0   100.0    98.0    62.4   100.0   100.0   100.0    23.3   100.0    100.0    97.0    20.5   100.0   100.0                 89.0
NATIONAL TOTAL           47.0    95.0    99.0    100.0    86.3    100.0   100.0   100.0    43.3          84.0   91.01      94.0    40.3      81.0    90.0      94.0
SOURCE: PAI/MINSA
45



Table 6.J
INFANT MORTALITY RATE ACCORDING TO CAUSES BY SILAIS
COMPARATIVE PERIOD 94 - 95 - 96 - 97
SILAIS               MORTALITY RATE E D A               |MORTALITY RATE I R A               MORTALITY RATE PERINATAL            MORTALITY RATE - INFANTS
94      95       96       97       94       95       96       97       94       95       96       97       94       95       96       97
MASAYA                    4.2      6.1      6.0      3.9      1.0      14       1.0      09      6.3      7.4      6.6       58     17.0     20.7    19.0    15.2
GRANADA                   5.3      4.1      3.3      2.7      1.0      1.8      3.3      2.2    10.9    10.0    12.0        8.5    22.1      20.9    26.2    19.2
CARAZO                    3.0      2.9      5.6      2.7      3.0      3.1      1.0      1.2    12.0      9.3      8.3      12.6    23.0     19.6    20.0    20.8
RIVAS                     2.0      2.7      3.0      0.6      2.0      0.7      1.4     0.9    10.0       9.8      8.0      8.6    18.3    17.2       18.0    15.6
BOACO                     4.0      3.3      2.0      2.1      1.5      1.8      1.0      2.9     7.4      8.2      7.0      9.6    16.7    19.1       15.0     20.0
RAAN                      3.0      6.7    10.0       9.5      7.6      7.0    10.0       8.5    15.6    17.9      16.2    17.4    37.0    40.8    49.0    46.8
RIO SAN JUAN              1.0      4.5      6.0    13.1       5.0      1.3      1.4     0.9    11.3    10.2       13.0     15.0    26.3    21.6       27.2    37.6
NATIONAL TOTAL            4.0      4.7      4.0      4.3      3.0      2.9      2.1      2.1    10.6    10.5      10.0      10.4    22.6    23.3      22.0     23.3
SOURCE: DGPSI
46



Table 6.K
PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLY SYSTEM
INDICATORS
YEAR 95                   YEAR 96                   YEAR 97
INDICATORS                           Target  I Achieved       Target    Achieved      Target    Achieved
Reduce frequency of stockouts (as %
reduction from previous years levels)                          20%          30%         25%          26%      16.70%       12.30%
Reduce average duration of stockouts (days)                      30          4.5          21          4.8          15          4.8
Reduce unit costs for pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies (as % reduction from previous years levels)            3%           5%        3.10%          8%       4.30%         10%
Reduce losses due to product expiration and deterioration
in storage (as % reduction from previous years levels)         25%          30%      33.30%          50%         50%         75%
Reduce real operating costs of the CIPS (as % reduction
from previous year's levels) *                                  5%                     5.30%                   5.60%
Decrease in the unit price of the least expensive generic
equivalent of each product on the vital product list (as %
reduction from previous years levels)                            3%          N/I       3.10%       8.77%       4.30%        4.63%
Proportion of products distributed by private sector            5%           1 %        10%           2%         15%        2.50%
# of people trained for the supply system                                   275                      443                      918
# of inventories realized in health facilities                              125                       63                       18
# of products organized in the health units                               27,827                   14,318                    4,144
# of supervisions of SILAIS 's farmaceutical services                                                 66                      120
The Organizational structure of CIPS was not transformed
No Information
Stockout is defined to occur when one or more items on a reduced vital products list is out stock
47



Table 6.1
HOSPITAL EMERGENCY REHABILITATION FUND
CONCEPT                                                                 PERIOD
l____________ 1           YEAR 1         YEAR 2         YEAR 3         TOTAL
Number of Subproject requests  According to Staff
Appraisal Report                   33            25             25              83
Real execution                    239           171              0             410
Value of Subproject requests   According to Staff
US$                            Appraisal Report            2,765,000      1,725,000      1,925,000       6,415,000
Real execution             13,387,802      9,721,964                    23,109,766
Value of Subprojects apprised  According to Staff          2,515,000      1,565,000      1,750,000       5,830,000
($000) (number of subprojects  Appraisal Report            (30)            (23)          (23)            (76)
in parenthesis)                                            9,969,934      9,565,986                     19,535,924
Real execution             (187)           (170)                         (357)
Value of Subprojects approved  According to Staff           1,850,000     1,365,000      1,285,000       4,500,000
($000) (number of subprojects  Appraisal Report            (17)            (20)          (18)            (55)
in parenthesis)                                            2,198,153      2,934,362                      5,132,469
Real execution        _    (43)            (44)                          (87)
48



Table 6.M
MAINTENANCE INDICATORS
ACTION                      YEAR 1                         YEAR 2                         YEAR 3
Maintenance Study          Complete Study by Septem-    Implementation action plan;     Implement action plan; progress
ber 30, 1994; discuss w/IDA  progress to be reviewed at      to be reviewed at annual review
According with Staff Apprisal  by October 31, 1994; start  mid-term and annual reviews
Report                     implementing action plan by
implementing action plan by
Real execution             Pre-qualification and invitations  A consulting firm was contracted.  The study was completed in
for consulting firms         The study was started in July 95   August 1996. It was not implemen-
ted for lack of finance
Recurrent Cost Study       Complete Study by September   Implement action plan; progress   Implement action plan; progress
30, 1994; discuss w/lDA by   to be reviewed at mid-term and    to be reviewed at annual review.
October 31, 1994; start imple-   annual reviews
menting action plan by January
1,1995
Real execution             Pre-qualification and invitations  A consulting firm was contracted.  The study was completed in
for consulting firms         The study was started in July 95   April 1996. It was not implemen-
ted for lack of finance
49



Table 6.N
ESTIMATED COSTS FOR STUDIES
STUDY              ESTIMATED COST        CONTRACT COST US$          COST DIFFERENCE US$
Design system for mainte-
nance of Health facilities            200,000.00                259,998.00                     59,998.00
Analysis of recurrent costs
of investments                        100,000.00               127,029.00                      27,029.00
TOTALS                                300,000.00                387,027.00                     87,027.00
50



Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal / redefined               Status            Impact of Study
1. Design of         This was the second stage of a three stage approach to improve   Proposed   This study was partially implemented.
Corrected per Capita  the resource allocation system. After an initial phase of  methodology     Updated versions of the model generated
Resource Allocation    definition of budget and monitoring indicators, this phase  presented on  are used only for the allocation of that
System.              contemplated the design of a corrected per capita system for  7/22/94.      portion of the budget which is
resource allocation to the SILAIS. This included definitions of:  Application of    decentralized to the SILAIS (goods and
corrected per capita allocation based on the budget; preliminary  methodology  services). 3084-NI will support
population base for the per capita system; criteria for payments  prepared by  revisions to eliminate some perverse
to Managua hospitals directly controlled by MOH; criteria for   3/10/95.   incentives of the current system, and its
the allocation of resources from the SILAIS to the health                  full implementation as a management
facilities.                                                                tool.
2. Per capita cost of    This was the third phase of the reform of the resource  Study design    The IDB prepared a methodology to
service delivery     allocation system. It contemplated the design of a per capita    prepared in  define unit costs at the hospital level and
resource allocation system based on: (i)a technical definition    August 1994, but  the MOH decided that extension of the
of the health agents participating in the system; (ii) the costs of  study not  unit costs study to the primary level was
a comprehensive basket of curative, preventive and        executed.        not a priority at that time, since the
rehabilitation benefits corresponding to the primary care level            hospitals are the heavy cost centers of
and compatible with the Nicaraguan health care model; (iii) the            the system. 3084-NI will review the
population to be covered with its demographic and                          hospital methodology and support its
epidemiological characteristics; (iv) a standard tariff schedule           implementation. USAID is preparing
for services consistent with the health care model, and a referral         methodology to do same for the primary
system between SILAIS coordinated with the per capita system;              level.
(v) the selection of health and management indicators and
incentives.
3. Cost recovery     A review of the cost recovery system being introduced by the  This study was    This study was addressed in two ways.
MOH at the secondary level, and a proposal for a new cost not executed as    The IDB produced a study on financing
recovery  system  covering:  operating  procedures; legal,  designed.      alternatives for the sector.  2556-NI
structural and procedural changes required; cost recovery                  supported the MOH in design of private
targets as a function of affordability and the unit costs of               medical services: the project reviewed
services; and costs of implementation.                                     existing tariffs and proposed a revised
fee schedule; it designed a system to
monitor the cash flow of the private
service units in MOH, now in operation.
51



Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal / redefined              Status            Impact of Study
3084-NI will advance this work,
developing cost recovery policy, norms
for revenue use, and relevant manuals.
4. Medical labor     Prepare the basis for medium and long term reforms of the  Completed in    This study established the fundamental
market in Nicaragua   health labor market, covering: public and private salary  December 1996;  personnel data base of the ministry: staff
comparisons for key staff categories; review of areas with  discussed with    distribution, attributes, training levels,
critical shortage of staff; survey of nurses who left MOH to  MINSA in    functions, etc. It also provided
assess reasons why, and changes required; training       December 1997.  recommendations for personnel
requirements.                                                             management, including the definition of
personnel policies, training standards,
skills mix and skills planning for future.
MINSA is considering implementation
__________ ____  _   _of recommendations under 3084-NI.
5. Improve MIS       Evaluate existing information systems in light of current Terms of         Since not yet implemented, impact of
requirements and future requirements under a decentralized  reference for  study cannot yet be assessed.  Pilot
system, and propose a new information system that would:  design and for    implementation  of the  modules for
include administrative, financial and epidemiological aspects; bidding of  finance, production  of services, and
develop an integrated MIS design to serve users at different system       medical supplies will commence during
levels of system;  identify feasibility of integrating MIS  completed.    1999 in the SILAIS of Masaya and
between the two levels of health care;  identify equipment Conceptual     Granada.
needs; provide design and cost estimates; pilot system in at design of system
least one SILAIS; and propose evaluation and monitoring  completed.
system with indicators.                                 Initial system
modules
designed and
ready for pilot
testing in 2
SILAIS. Final
design of
remaining
modules, pilot
tests and full
implementation
to be executed
under new health
52



Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal / redefined             Status            Impact of Study
credit, 3084-NI.
6. Pharmaceuticals:   Identify legal, regulatory and other constraints that inhibit the    Completed  Produced policy on pharmaceuticals
Generic drugs        private sector from selling essential pharmaceutical products.    11/95.  pricing, and proposal to strengthen the
Present recommendations on how to reduce constraints to                  medical registry, quality control, IEC
marketing of generics. Estimate benefits that could be achieved          and monitoring. These strategies were
through implementation of recommendations.                               not implemented. Implementation will
be supported under 3084-NI.
7. Pharmaceuticals:    Prepare legal reforms to reflect current pharmaceutical policies  Law overning  The law and its regulations still need to
Legal changes        of government in such areas as: purchase contracts with  medicines and    be disseminated. This effort is being
flexible total quantities; tenders that request alternative prices    pharmnaceuticals  supported under 3084-NI.
depending on point of reception; increased purchase authority   prepared and
for SILAIS and health facilities; formalization of supplier  passed by
tracking system; lease of hospital space to a private pharmacy;  National
sale of pharmaceutical products in public hospitals. Evaluate    Assembly 1/98;
cost effectiveness of legal interventions.              norms and
regulation of law
completed.
8. Pharmaceuticals:    Help MOH to better manage pharmaceuticals received from  Completed      Manuals were prepared based on study
Donations            donors via: establish a policy on pharmaceutics donations;  10/30/95.     recommendations to guide the
dissemination and implementation of policy; aggregation and              management of pharmaceuticals
analysis of planned pharmaceutical donations; development of             donations. These were never put into
multi-year pharmaceuticals procurement plan to coordinate                practice. They are now being adapted to
MOH and donor procurement; regular update of plan; and                   reflect the new proposed
assess sustainability issues of large donations of                       pharmaceuticals supply system, and their
pharmaceuticals and present recommendations to MOH on how                implementation will be supported under
to reduce impact of future reductions in donations.                      3084-NI.
9. Rational use of   Identify nature and magnitude of inappropriate pharmaceutical   Completed  Study produced an proposal to promote
drugs                use and identify possible interventions to reduce the problem.   3/24/98.  and monitor rational drug use (rational
From a list of at least four possible interventions, pilot at least      drug use committees and public
two in ten facilities each. Evaluate their impact.                       education), but it has not yet been
implemented. This will be supported
under 3084-NI.
10. Pilot of Private    To enable MOH to pilot different mechanisms for recovering a   Completed  Pilot experiences of private hospital
Hospital Pharmacy    portion of pharmaceuticals expenditures and for using private   during 1997.  pharmacies were initiated in 4 Managua
sector for delivery of drugs, this study explored feasibility of         hospitals and three health centers.
53



Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal / redefined             Status            Impact of Study
leasing space within public hospitals to private pharmacies.             Physical and financial administration
Study included design and feasibility studies; bidding and               improved, including a significant decline
leasing space to private provider; operation of private                  in losses and thefts. The model has been
pharmacy; evaluation of operations and proposal for                      adopted by additional hospitals. 3084-
modifications.                                                           NI will support expansion of these pilots.
11. Maintenance      Design a maintenance system that allows health institutions,  Completed  Not implemented for lack of recurrent
system              through the use of specific methodologies and instruments, to    August 1996  budget finance to do so. This will be
plan, prioritize, formulate, execute, supervise and evaluate             supported under 3084-NI.
maintenance programs and activities.
12. Recurrent cost   Analyze the impact of various investments in hospitals on the    Completed April  Not implemented for lack of recurrent
implications         recurrent costs supported by the MOH. In particular, this study  1996    budget finance to do so. This will be
would estimate the additional requirements in human resources,           supported under 3084-NI.
physical inputs, and maintenance that would result from recent
or proposed investments in Nicaraguan hospitals financed by
donor agencies.
54



Table 8: Project Costs and Financing
Table 8A Project Costs
Accum at   Estimated               Actual      Estimated
Project    per SAR     % exec.    % total      % total
Closing
(US$)      (US$)
Institutional Strengthening   3.3          2.6        127.3       16.3        12.9
PHC                           6.5          7.0        92.8        32.1        34.8
Pharm. Supply system          2.2          3.2        67.8        10.7        15.9
Infrastr Maint and Rehab      5.7          5.3       108.1        28.3        26.4
TA for INSS                   1.0          1.0        100.0        4.9         5.0
Project Admin                 1.5          1.0        154.0        7.6         5.0
Total                         20.3        20.1        101.0       100.0       100.0
Table 8B Project Financing
Accum at  Estimated               Actual      Estimated
Project
Closing    per SAR  % exec.      % total     % total
(US$)     (US$)
IDA                           14.3        15.0       95.3         70.4        74.6
Norway                         3.2         3.0      106.7          15.8       14.9
Japan Trust Fund               0.2         0.0                      1.0        0.0
Cuenta 1000                    0.3         0.0                     1.5         0.0
GON                            2.3         2.1      109.5          11.3       10.4
Total                         20.3        20.1      101.0         100.0       100.0
55



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section      Covenant   Present  Original    Revised         Description of covenant                                   Comments
Type        Status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
C3 IBRD
Text        Art.  III  04            NC                                 The borrower (a) would allocate in its annual budget for CY   Documentation of counterpart
Reference:   3.04                                                       1994 to 1996, and each CY thereafter, the following minimum   finance   of  project  not
amounts, as counterpart funds for the financing of the Project:  available at project closing.
(i) $1,000,000 equivalent for CY94; (ii) $700,000 equivalent for
CY95; (iii) $400,000 equivalent for CY96 and each year
thereafler; and (b) advance from these amounts no later than the
first quarter.
Text        Art. 3.06  09            CD                                 MOH  and  INSS  would  (I)  undertake  annual project  None
Reference:   (c) (d)                                                    implementation reviews not later than November 30 of each year,
starting 1994, and (ii) submit plans for each component for the
coming year for IDA's approval not later than September 30 of
each year.
Text        Art. 3.06  09            CD                                 MOH, INSS and IDA would conduct jointly an in-depth mid-  None
Reference:   (e) (f)                                                    term review of the project and the program described in the
policy letter by June 30, 1995, under terms satisfactory to IDA,
to be presented no later than January 31, 1995, and on the basis
of this review, the MOH and INSS would prepare and carry out
an action plan satisfactory to IDA.
Text        3           09           C                                  The Government would use IDA standard bidding Documents  None.
Reference:                                                              for ICB with modifications agreed upon during negotiations, and
Standard Bidding Documents for LCB.
C7 IBRD
Text         7.01 (a)    10          C                                  The INSS Subsidiary Agreement would have been entered into  Agreement signed on 1/5/94
Reference:                                                              between the Borrower and INSS.
Text         7.01 (b)    10          C                                  Service provision arrangements would have been made with at  Arrangements  signed   on
Reference:                                                              least three PHC SILAIS                                    3/11/94
Text         7.02       12           C                                  The Borrower would have furnished to IDA legal opinions  Legal  opinions  given  on
Reference:                                                              namely that the Development Credit Agreement and the INSS  2/2/94     and      2/9/94
subsidiary agreement have been duly authorized and are legally  respectively.
binding for the Borrower and upon the Borrower and INSS
respectively.
Cl IBRD
Text         Schedule   03           C                                  Payments made for expenditures prior to December 17, 1993, but  No  payments  were  made
Reference:   1.3 (a)                                                    after October 1, 1993, not to exceed SDR540,000.          during that period.
Text         Schedtile   03          C                                  No withdrawals in respect of any PIIC SILAIS participating in  None.
Reference:   1.3 (b)                                                    Part A.1 of the project should be made unless IDA had been
furnished with its Service Provision Arrangement (SPA).
56



Agreement  Section      Covenant   Present  Original    Revised       Description of covenant                                   Comments
Type        Status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
'ext        Schedule   03           C                                 No withdrawals in respect of computer hardware under Part A.3  None.
Reference:   1.3 (c)                                                  of the Project should be made unless IDA had been furnished
with the action plan referred to in paragraph 8(b) of the DCA.
Text        Schedule   03           C                                 No withdrawals in respect of Part A.2 of the project should be  HRD   Operational  Manual
Reference:   1.3(d)                                                    made unless the Borrower had adopted HRD  Operational  adopted by MOH on 7/13/94.
Manual.                                                  First  payment  made  on
8/15/94.
Text        Schedule   03           C                                 No withdrawals in respect of part B.4 of the project should be  August 1994.
Reference:   1.3(e)                                                   made unless the borrower has adopted the I&E Operational
Manual.
Text        Schedule   03           C                                 No withdrawals in respect of Part D. 1 of the project should be  March 1994.
Reference:   1.3(f)                                                   made unless the borrower has adopted  the Emergency
Rehabilitation Operational Manual.
Text        Schedule   03           C                                  No withdrawals in respect of Categories (3) and (4) should be  1994.
Reference:   1.3(g)                                                    made unless IDA should have received the related list of medical
equipment and pharmaceuticals to be financed out of the
proceeds of the credit.
Text        Schedule   03           C                                 No withdrawals in respect of Part B of the project should be  October 1994.
Reference:   1.3(h)                                                    made unless the borrower has adopted the Primary Health Care
Supervision Manual.
Text        Schedule   03           C                                  No payment should be made under the first two HRRD subprojects  None.
Reference:   1.3(i)                                                   and any HRD subproject costing more than the equivalent of
$75,000 unless IDA should have approved the respective HRD
subprojects.
Text        Schedule   03           C                                  No payment should be made under the first two Emergency  None.
Reference:   1.3(j)                                                    Rehabilitation subprojects and any Emergency Rehabilitation
subproject costing more than the equivalent of $100,000 unless
IDA should have approved the respective Emergency
Rehabilitation subproject.
Text        Schedule   03           C                                  No payments should be made under the first two I&E subprojects  None.
Reference:   1.3(k)                                                    unless IDA  should  have approved  the  respective  I&E
subprojects.
C3 IBRD
Text         Schedule   03          C                                  LIB: Pharmaceutical, medical equipment and supplies, up to an  None
Reference    3, Section                                                aggregate amount equivalent to $2,800,000.
1    Part
C.l(a)
Text        Schedule   03           PC                                 LCB:  Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of  Aggregates were  exceeded,
Reference    3, Section                                                $150,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to  but no records were kept on
1 Part C.3.                                               $600,000.                                                these aggregates.
Text        Schedule   03           PC                                 Shopping:  Goods (other than pharmaceuticals and medical  Aggregates were  exceeded,
57



Agreement  Section      Covenant   Present  Original    Revised       Description of covenant                                 Comments
Type        Status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Reference    3, Section                                               supplies) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000  but no records were kept on
I Part C.4                                               per contract up to an aggregate amount of $600,000 and works  these aggregates.
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,100,000.
Text        Schedule   03           C                                 Shopping: Pharmaceuticals and medical equipment and supplies  None.
Reference    3, Section                                               estimated to cost less than $25,000 per contract, up to an
I Part C.5                                               aggregate amount equivalent to $1,300,000.
Text        Schedule   03           C                                 The first contract for goods and works procured through LCB  None.
Reference    3, Section                                               and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
I    Part                                                $200,000 or more, and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
D.I(a)                                                   of $100,000 or more, would be subject to prior review by IDA.
C4 IBRD
Text        Schedule   05           CP                                Maintain the PCU with structure and functions, and staffed with  Supervision  of  November
Reference    4.1                                                      personnel with qualifications and experience, satisfactory to IDA   1997  left  specific
at all times during project implementation.             recommendations to improve
PCU  performance.  Project
closed with deficient financial
management.
Text        Schedule   09           CD       3/31/95                  Complete a review of the budget decentralization process being  Official document furnished
Reference    4.2(a)                                                  implemented by MOH so as to: (i) analyze the strengths and  to IDA 7/6/95. Independent
weaknesses of its implementation; (ii) assess whether the pace of  study furnished to IDA  on
budget decentralization is adequate considering the SILAIS  3/29/96.
capacity; and (iii) recommend improvements to the system, by
March 31, 1995.
Text        Schedule   05           NC       4/30/95                  Based on the results of the review referred to in paragraph (a),  Not done.   MOH  never
Reference    4.2(b)                                                   prepare and furnish to IDA an action plan, satisfactory to IDA,  reached agreement with MOF
for the decentralization of MOH's human resources including  on mechanisms to decentralize
therein the modalities and the timing thereof, by April 30, 1995    finance, nor did they broach
the political aspects of passing
personnel control to local
level.
Text        Schedule   10           NC       5/31/95                  Commence implementation of such action plan by May 31, 1995.  Not done.
Reference:   4.2 (c)
Text        Schedule   03           C        9/30/94                  Furnish to the IDA a budgetary resource allocation system for the  7/22/94
Reference:   4.3(a)                                                   SILAIS, satisfactory to IDA, which would allocate such
resources on a per capita basis with corrective factors to make it
more equitable and efficient between the SILAIS by 09/30/94.
Text        Schedule   03           C        1/1/95                   Commence implementation of such budgetary allocation system   None.
vz 



Agreement  Section      Covenant   Present  Original    Revised       Description of covenant                                  Comments
Type        Status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Reference:   4.3(b)                                                   on a pilot basis, in at least five SILAIS by January 1, 1995.
Text        Schedule   10           CD       6/30/95                  Furnish to IDA the results of the pilot implementation referred to  Results of the study furnished
Reference:   4.3 (c)                                                  in 3(b), its assessment of the feasibility of extending the system  to IDA on 3/29/96
to all SILAIS, and introducing, on a pilot basis, a resource
allocation system for the SILAIS based exclusively on the cost
per capita of delivering health care services by June 30, 1995.
Text        Schedule   10           NC       9/1/95                   Commence implementation of an action plan, satisfactory to IDA  Not done.  Real per capita
Reference:   4.3(d)                                                   based on the results referred to in 3 (c), by September 1, 1995.    budget was shrinking over this
period, rendering a per capita
allocation     increasingly
difficult. Also, the political
costs of the reallocations that
would be implied were high at
a time of shrinking budgets.
Text        Schedule   09           C         12/31/94                Furnish to IDA the results of the review of the cost accounting  Evaluation determined that a
Reference:   4.4(a)                                                   system currently in use by MOH on a limited basis, and the  new cost accounting system is
feasibility of expanding such cost accounting system to all  required.
MOH's hospitals and SILAIS, by December 31, 1994.
Text        Schedule   10           C        2/1/95                   Commence implementation of an action plan, satisfactory to  New cost accounting system is
Reference:   4.4(b)                                                  IDA, based on the results of the review referred to in paragraph  under implementation.
4(a), by February 1, 1995.
Text        Schedule   09           C        10/31/94    1/31/95      Review with IDA the results of the implementation of the Service  None.
Reference:   4.5(a)                                                   Provision Arrangements, by October 31, 1994.
Text        Schedule   10           C                                 Commence  implementation  of  the  Service  Provision  None.
Reference:   4.5(b)                                                   Arrangements, modified as needed to take into account the
results of the review referred to in paragraph 5(a), in all SILAIS.
Text        Schedule   09           C        3/31/94                  Furnish to IDA the terms of reference for the study included in  IDA approved the terms of
Reference:   4.6(a)                                                   Part A. 1 (d) of the project.                           reference.
Text        Schedule   09           CP       12/31/94                 Discuss with IDA the recommendations of such study.     Not executed as designed;
Reference:   4.6(b)                                                                                                           IDB   financed  study  on
financing alternatives.
Text        Schedule   10           CP       2/1/95                   Commence implementation of the recommendations of the study  Partial implementation of cost
Reference:   4.6(c)                                                  referred to in 6(a), taking into account the comments, if any,  recovery activities at hospital
made by IDA there on.                                    level. Expansion under 3084-
NI.
Text        Schedule   09           CD        10/31/94    11/30/96    Furnish to IDA for its comments the results of the study of health  Study completed 12/31/97.
Reference:   4.7(a)                                                  labor market included in Part A.2(a) of the project.
Text        Schedule   10           NC       1/1/95       1/1/97      Commence implementation of the recommendations of such  This study was delayed in its
Reference:   4.7(b)                                                   study, taking into account the comments, if any, made by IDA  delivery, and delayed in its
thereon.                                                reception by the new MINSA
59



Agreement  Section     Covenant   Present  Original    Revised        Description of covenant                                 Comments
Type        Status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
authorieis in  1997.   IDA
expects to support partial
implementation under 3084-
NI.
Text        Schedule   09           C        4/30/94                  Furnish to IDA the terms of reference for the consultants to be  Terms of reference furnished
Reference:   4.8(a)                                                   employed to develop the MOH's management information  to IDA on March 25, 1994.
system included in Part A.3 of the Project by April 30, 1994.  New  terms  of  reference
Furnish to IDA an action plan satisfactory to IDA for the  written to hire a consultant to
development and implementation of such information system by  prepare  bidding  documents
December 31, 1994.                                      for implementation  of the
system. 4.8(b), approved by
IDA on February 16, 1995.
Text        Schedule   10           C        2/1/95                   Commence implementation of such action plan.            None.
Reference:   4.8(c)
Text        Schedule   09           CD       10/31/94                 Furnish to IDA the recommendation of the studies included in  Final reports furnished to IDA
Reference:   4.9(a)                                                   Part C. I of the Project.                               on 3/29/96.
Text        Schedule   10           PC       12/3/94                  Commence implementation of the recommendations of the  Legal reforms passed. Further
Reference:   4.9(b)                                                   studies referred to in 9(a), taking into account the comments, if  implementation    to    be
any, made by IDA thereon.                               supported by 3084-NI
Text        Schedule   09           CD       1/31/95      1/31/97     Furnish to IDA the recommendations of the studies referred to in  Furnished to IDA in 1998.
Reference:   4.10(a)                                                  Part C.3 of the Project, and an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to
improve the efficiency in the use of medical drugs.
Text        Schedule   10           NC       3/1/95      3/31/97      Commence implementation of such action plan.            Not  implemented  due  to
Reference:   4.10(b)                                                                                                          delays. Will implement under
3084-NI.
Text        Schedule   10           CD       6/30/95     6/30/96      Complete implementation of the pilot program on the promotion  Pilot completed during 1997.
Reference:   4.11(a)                                                  of private sector participation in the delivery of pharmacy
services included in part C.4 of the Project and furnish to IDA an
action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to expand such program, by
June 30, 1995.
Text        Schedule   10           CD       8/1/95      8/1/96       Commence implementation of such an action plan.         Underway.  Implementation
Reference:   4.11(b)                                                                                                          under 3084-NI
Text        Schedule   09           C        12/31/94    6/1/96       Furnish to IDA the recommendations of the studies included in  Maintenance system has been
Reference:   4.12(a)                                                  Part D.2 of the Project.                                designed,   August   1996.
Recurrent   cost   analysis
completed April 1996.
Text        Schedule   10           NC       3/1/95      9/1/96       Commence implementation of the recommendations of the  No implementation for lack of
Reference:   4.12(b)                                                 studies referred to in 12.(a) above, taking into account the  recurrent budget finance to do
comments, if any, made by IDA thereon, by March 31, 1995.  so.
60



Agreement  Section       Covenant   Present  Original    Revised         Description of covenant                                    Comments
Type        Status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Text         Schedule   05           C          12/31/94                 Cause INSS to furnish to IDA an action plan, satisfactory to  Design  and   action   plan
Reference:   4.13(a)                                                     IDA, for the improvements of its health insurance program   received in 1994.
through the implementation of the redesigned insurance system
referred to in Part E. I of the Project.
Text         Schedule   10           C         1/12/95                   Cause INSS to commence implementation of such action plan.  Health Insurance Plan under
Reference:   4.13(b)                                                                                                                implementation.
Text         Schedule   09           C          12/31/94                 Furnish to IDA an action plan satisfactory to IDA for the  Approved   by   IDA   on
Reference:   4.8(b)                                                      development and implementation of such information system, by  February  16,  1995  (see
December 31, 1994.                                         covenant sequence 18).
Covenant types:                                                                                                          Present status:
I = accounts/audits                                          8 = indigenous people                                       C = covenant complied with
2 = financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9 = monitoring, review and reporting                     CD = complied with after delay
3 = flow and utilization of project funds                    10 = project implementation not covered by categories 1-9    CP = complied with partially
4 = counterpart funding                                      11 = sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resource  NC = not complied with
allocation
5 = management aspects of the project or executing agency    12 = sectoral or cross sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 = environmental covenants                                  13 = other
7 = involuntary resettlement
61



Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs3
Planned                     | Actual                       l
Stage of project cycle                      Weeks          US$            Weeks          US$
Preparation to appraisal                                                  237.3          483.2
Appraisal                                                                 29.9           67.3
Negotiations through Board approval                                       3.6             11.I
Supervision                                                               137.4          362.4
Completion                                                                5.2             11.1
TOTAL                                                                     413.4          935.1
Preparation totals presented here also include selected activities related to the FISE and Basic Education
projects and a Social Sector Study. Supervision costs may be somewhat understated, as preparation of follow-
up project was taking place during the final phase of implementation and therefore some preparation missions
also looked at implementation issues of the earlier project.
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project  Month/  Number   Days       Specialized     Performance rating             Types  of
cycle            year     of        in        staff    skills                                problems
persons   field     represented
Implementation   Development
status          objectives
Through          11/92    2          1 5      C,G,B           N/A              N/A
appraisal
Identification    2/93  2          8        C,G,B
Preparation    6/93     3          4        C,G,B
Appraisal through  7/93   8          II       B,L,C,C,C,B,I,I  N/A             N/A
Board approval
Preappraisal/
Appraisal                                   G,L,C,B,L
9/93     5         4                         N/A             N/A
Supervision
Supervision 1    6/94    6          7        C,C,F,C,K,L      I               HS
Supervision 2    7/95    7          10       C,B,C,C,F,I,L    HS              HS
Supervision 3   12/95    3          4        B,D,(2),L       HS               HS
Supervision 4   3/96     7          4        C,B,C,G,H,I,L    HS              HS
Supervision 5   4/96      1         2        B               HS               HS
Supervision 6   9/96     5          8        C,C,L,C,L       S                HS
Supervision 7   4/97      1         3        I               S                S
Supervision 8   4/97      1         5        I               S                S
Supervision 9   8/97     2          6        I,M             S                S
Supervision 10    11/97    4        5        F,H,J           S                S
Supervision 11    6/98   3          4        B,C,I           S                S
Completion       3/99      1         10       B               U                U
3Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
62



Appendix A
Government's Contribution to the ICR
National Project Closing Report
Implementation Experience and Results
Considering that this is the first project financed by the World Bank in the Health Sector of
Nicaragua, and taking into account the country's political and economic situation as well as
the natural disasters of recent years, the overall performance of this project was satisfactory.
The experience gained with this project has allowed Nicaragua create a basis to enrich the
human capital of the country.
In terms of the physical advance of the project, activities under the Institutional
Strengthening Component surpassed targets. The component financed:
*  111 projects to train 2,599 public officials at the central level and the SILAIS;
*  the establishment of a tariff system to recover the costs of differentiated services in 23
hospitals in the country;
-  the creation of Boards of Directors in the SILAIS; the definition of their attributions and
responsibilities in a legal framework are still pending for future operations;
*  the Health Labor Market Study, which generated a series of recommendations for the
development of the sector's human resources, which the MINSA will take under
consideration starting in 1999;
*  the design and implementation of service provision agreements with the 17 SlLAIS
during the first four years of the project;
D  technical assistance to legalize 711 MINSA properties permitting the Ministry to define
the service needs of the catchment areas legally served by these facilities;
*  the design and application of strategic planning instruments in the health facilities;
*  the updating of the MINSA accounting base and the partial implementation of the
National Accounting System. The MINSA plans to implement this system nationally in
1999, with funds from new projects;
*  technical assistance to design the Management Information System for the MINSA;
*  budget decentralization to the SILAIS: putting the process in motion and achieving 20%
of the established goal. Further progress was not possible due to the absence of a legal
framework for the reform of the sector;
*  The core goal of this component was achieved through project finance of technical
assistance to MINSA in the definition of the new Health Sector Policy, which now guides
the institution;
Under the Primary Health Care Component the project financed the design and
implementation of a new model of integrated primary health care in seven SILAIS and the
training of 5,734 staff of local units as well as 1,705 change agents. The implementation of
the new model allowed an increase in the levels of services delivered from 10% in 1995 to
63



25% in 1998. This model achieved an annual increase in the number of people that received
assistance. Each year, the primary health care component attended a minimum of 95,522
women (25.3% of consultations in the country). Also, 141,897 children under I year old
were attended (27.4% of total consultations given in the country). Additionally, the primary
health care component developed a process for the supervision of the component, using
national as well as international consultants. Supervision by nationals was permanent in the
seven SILAIS that were included in the project; international supervision occurred 2 times
per year, which allowed the component to achieve its objectives on time. During the three
years that performance incentives were awarded at a national level, the winning SILAIS were
Granada, Masaya and Carazo, respectively. Their activities to achieve project goals cost
approximately US$ 187,516 during the life of the project.
The Pharmaceuticals Supply and Distribution System Component implemented a program to
organize and simplify the pharmaceutical supply system (POSSS) in 205 pharmacies and
health units storerooms in the 17 SILAIS. This program updated the inventory control of
46,285 pharmaceuticals, delivered equipment and furniture, and rehabilitated 27
pharmaceuticals stockrooms. This experience also generated the needed information for the
revision and approval of the Law for Pharmacies and Medical Products. This reform
experience led to a deeper analysis of reform options for the CIPS, which allowed MINSA to
take initial steps toward a transformation of the distribution system.
The study on the Feasibility of Marketing Generic Drugs provided the basis for the definition
of a policy on drug pricing. Among other achievements, the study on the Management and
Distribution of Donated Pharmaceuticals validated the process for the management of
pharmaceuticals donations from the central level to the local health units. This process was
presented in three manuals that are to be implemented in 1999. Finally the study on the
Rational Use of Medicines defined strategies to promote rational drug use that will be
implemented starting in 1999.
The component for the Rehabilitation of Hospitals and other Health Units exceeded its
goals. This component executed 410 sub-projects-323 sub-projects more than originally
planned. Amendments to the credit agreement during project execution allowed the
component to meet its goals, and allowed the rehabilitation of health units that were not
originally contemplated but which required project support. In parallel, the project financed
the Studies for the Design of a Maintenance System for MINSA Health facilities, and a Study
of the Recurrent Costs of Investments, which were completed but not implemented for lack
of the finance needed for their implementation.
For INSS, the project financed technical assistance to design proposals to reform the pension
system, create a new health insurance system, a new workman's compensation system, and
the strategic plan for a management information system for the INSS, which is now in
implementation.
64



Summary of flndings, future operations and princioal lessons learned:
With this project the World Bank helped to establish a positive basis for the reform of the
health sector in Nicaragua. The project supported the implementation of the first strategy for
preventive primary health care and the initial actions for the institutional strengthening of the
sector. The main differences between the original project plan and actual implementation
come from the costs originally estimated and the real cost once the activities were put into
action. The successful activities supported by this project to reform the health sector will be
continued with Phase I of the Health Sector Modernization Project (Credit 3084-NI), which
began in early 1999.
Nevertheless, this section presents a summary of those factors that MINSA considers to have
contributed to implementation problems during the Health Sector Reform Project. It will be
important to take these issues into consideration for future health sector operations in
Nicaragua:
i) Factors not subject to the control of the Government of Nicaragua: Monetary inflation,
and natural disasters such as Hurricane Cesar in 1995 and Hurricane Mitch in 1998, which at
their respective times affected project implementation throughout the national territory.
ii) Factors subject to the control of the Government of Nicaragua: The government
confronted serious political opposition to the implementation of the sectoral reform, which
contributed significantly to the lack of a legal framework that could support the process of
decentralization. In addition, it is important to note the impact of Nicaragua's very tight
fiscal policy on the advance of the health sector reform.
iii) Factors subject to the control of the Implementing Agency (MINSA): Inadequate
preparation and estimation of costs for some components and weak management and
administration of the project. The costs originally programmed were not sufficient to cover
additional project costs that had not been not contemplated at project appraisal but which
were necessary to achieve the activity programmed. For this reason, the report of Physical
and Financial Advance of the Project at closing quantifies the "sub-products" of those
activities that were not contemplated but executed and financed with project funds.
Weak PCU (Project Coordination Unit) management did not ensure the promotion and
dissemination of the project within the PCU, at the central level of MINSA nor at the various
local levels. This meant that the project lacked institutional mechanisms for:
* internal control to guarantee accurate reporting of the physical and financial advance of
the project, including its financial accounts;
*  adequate monitoring and follow-up of other activities within the project to guarantee, for
example, adoption of the recommendations of those studies undertaken with project
finance.
Finally, MINSA notes that these factors also contributed to the limited participation of
MINSA staff at the central and local levels in project implementation.
iv) Factors subject to World Bank control: It is important that under future operations the
World Bank increase direct contact with the MINSA to ensure timely project coordination
and execution.
65



Considering that this is the first health sector operation in Nicaragua, the project
implementation experience has generated many lessons learned. A principal lesson learned
is that implementation delays could have been avoided with better preparation and
management of the project from the start: the project documents were not translated,
which-combined with the weak participation and commitment of the General Directors of
MINSA-contributed to the failure to disseminate project Action Plans to the relevant local
level officials, which adversely affected local staff participation throughout the country.
Additionally, project implementation could be improved by ensuring that MINSA staff are
well informed about the project, starting at project launch, to ensure the full awareness and
commitment of line staff at all levels. This information flow needs to be maintained during
project implementation through close intra-institutional coordination-in this case between
MINSA and INSS-and also between donors and MINSA, to ensure adequate planning and
execution of the strategies to be developed in the future.
For future projects it will be important that project investment activities be programmed in a
manner consistent with staff implementation capacities. It is recommended that a systematic,
directed and controlled training plan be developed, with emphasis on the resolution of
principal health problems, and that it be accompanied by an institutionalized supervision
system with competent staffing that can support the reform process at the local level and
promote the national health policies.
PROJECT CHALLENGES
Even though the project was successful, the execution agencies, specifically MINSA and
INSS, faced many challenges during project implementation. These included:
a)    unfamiliarity with World Bank procurement and contracting procedures
b)    failure to disseminate Project Action Plans to the involved parties.
c)    inadequate training in the elaboration of the Annual Action Plans.
d)    unfamiliarity with the SAR and Credit Agreement among executing agencies.
e)  lack of training in the preparation of terms of reference with the formats and content
required by the World Bank.
f)  failure to define and use clear project impact indicators and lack of familiarity with the
methodology for their measurement.
g)    lack of a mechanized system for project monitoring and evaluation.
h)  lack of a mechanized system for project financial management.
i)  lack of systematic control and supervision instruments to guarantee control over the
use of project funds.
In addition to these challenges, and in the hopes of contributing to better project execution in
the future, we present the following considerations:
1.    To better implement project strategies, future projects should constantly accompany
the line departments of the MINSA, to foment involvement and leadership of project
activities as relevant in each line department.
2.    To deepen the reforms initiated under the Health Sector Reform Project, the first step
should be the implementation of the recommendations of the studies financed under that
66



project, adjusting those recommendations as warranted for consistency with ongoing health
sector reform proposals.
3.    It is necessary to create and institutionalize a monitoring and evaluation system that
can monitor project activities as well as activities within the line departments and units
where the project is active.
4.     The success of project activities at the local level is determined to a large degree by
the involvement of the authorities. For this reason, it is important to seek the conscious and
decided involvement of the technical and professional levels of the health system, in addition
to the General Directors.
5.     Supervision is another area that requires strengthening, to reach all health facilities.
This effort should begin with health posts. Since this is a role that must be performed by the
SILAIS, it is necessary to strengthen supervision teams at the local level and promote their
leadership within their territory.
6.    Improve coordination with the General Directions at the Central Level of MINSA.
7.    Achieve better inter-agency coordination for the planning and execution of project
activities, particularly in support of the strategies for Women's Centers.
8.     Support the sustainability, consolidation and extension of the Integrated Primary
Health Care Model throughout the national territory, including the extension of services for
adolescents.
9.     Promote the development of specific programs and actions to confront the main
causes of illness and death, including malnutrition interventions for children under 2 years of
age and for pregnant and lactating women.
10.   Support the development of a systematic, directed and controlled training plan for the
resolution of Nicaragua's principal health problems.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The actions of the Health Sector Reform Project were oriented toward creating a basis to
improve the health services of Nicaragua by strengthening the institutions that provide those
services, especially the Ministry of Health. This section identifies those critical areas where
continuity of project actions should be supported through future projects.
Within the context of the sectoral reform, it is important to underscore the importance of
continuing the institutionalization of the reform, to permit a deepening of the budget
decentralization process, human resources development, and management training for the
key actors in MINSA.
It will be fundamental to deepen the definition of roles and functions at Central and Local
levels to guarantee the continuity and consolidation of the professionalization of health
services providers throughout the country.
67



It is important to continue to consolidate the Integrated Primary Health Care Model to
broaden its coverage and benefits throughout the country.
In relation to the pharmaceuticals supply and distribution system, it will be important to
guarantee access to basic medicines, by extending the system nationally.
To guarantee the continuity of actions and deepen project achievements it is necessary to
strengthen supervision activities at the Central level as well as in the SILAIS.
It is necessary to systematize management instruments within the PCU to permit regular
monitoring of project execution relative to plan.
It is necessary to deepen and consolidate the use of strategic planning instruments by health
units, as a vital tool for the work of the SILAIS throughout the country.
To advance the Health Sector Reform Process it is necessary to reorganize health services,
and to facilitate the participation of civil society through Boards of Directors, National
Health Advisory Board and other forms of participation that promote the democratization of
health services management.
It is important to continue deepening financial decentralization to the SILAIS and to the local
level, and to guarantee local staff ownership of the strategies implemented in each health
unit.
Management training programs for sector staff should be reinforced, to promote changes of
perception and approach to sector problems. Such training should aim to develop not only
technical actions, but also the promotion of leadership, teamwork and a focus on service
quality.
68



Appendix B
Cofinancier's Comments: Government of Norway
Health sector reform project 1993-1998, Implementation Completion Report 1/
The following comments are in response to the April 1999 draft of the ICR.
1. In general, the report is thorough and detailed, with richness of information and clear assessments,
linking the project well up with a reform process that has now been taken further in the currently
ongoing health modemisation project.
2. We have noted that the project has been given a satisfactory rating in the World Bank assessment,
even though the problems encountered during the implementation is well documented. We would not
disagree with this conclusion. However, since this was a health reform project, it should be
emphasised that many important parts of the reform efforts did not succeed. The reform process needs
to have a long-term perspective, with a sustained commitment from the Government; the latter was not
always the case in this project. A number of the processes initiated during the project, e.g. through
studies and important "ground work", will be taken further (and hopefully be implemented) during the
new health modernisation project now being implemented.
3. Judging by the implementation completion report and the background documents for the new
project approved in 1998 (with NORAD co-funding), it is our assessment that the lessons learned
from the first project have been well taken care of in the design and content of the new project. The
completion report should therefore provide a useful tool in our continued follow-up of the ongoing
new project.
4. The implementation completion report with its annexes provides rich and well-documented
information, and the report is in this regard very satisfactory. The various tables given give easy
access to the progress, work done and outcomes. However, Table 5 in Part II Statistical annexes (Key
monitoring actions) does in our view not fully reflect the richness of the discussion/analysis in the
main document. This is particularly so for the Institutional strengthening component, which is the
component with the lowest success rating of all the components. The status/remark column in table 5
gives a too positive picture, and failure to implement is either said to be "in progress" or will be
implemented under the new project.
This having been said, we do acknowledge that this component was the most difficult and complex in
the project, and time is needed for the process to mature. But given the many shortcomings and
constraints and the Government controlled factors, it is our opinion that e.g.
*  Government commitment
*  integration of the new project (including PCU) into MINSA structure/systems
*  close follow up of the processes started (e.g. through studies in the first project)
*  the issue of staff turnover
*  arrangement between Min. of Finance and MINSA regarding decentralisation of the budget
needs to be followed closely during the implementation of the current new project.
1/ In draft reviewed by cofinancier, the overall assessment shown as 'satisfactory ', and project
sustainability as 'likely' in Part II, Table 1.  Subsequently, these ratings were changed to
'unsatisfactory' (because not all project objectives were fully met) and sustainability as 'uncertain'.
69



5. We note from table I part II statistical annexes (summary of assessments) that the project
sustainability has been rated as "likely". The main report briefly discusses sustainability under section
E, and concludes, "project sustainability would be very limited were this to be considered as a stand-
alone project." It seems that the main reason for concluding with a "likely" sustainability rating is that
the new project "intentionally picks up" where the "old" project failed.
We acknowledge that many sustainability factors are included in the assessment in other sections of
the report, but we would have liked to see a systematic synthesis of the sustainability factors under
section E. If assessment of policy support, institutional and financial/economic sustainability are
analysed together, given the critical remarks on these issues in the WB report, we doubt that the
overall rating of sustainability would be "likely".
6. We would agree to some extent in emphasising the many achievements in the health sector during
the time of the project, partly due to the project itself. It is important that we keep the shortcomings of
the reform during this first phase clear in our minds, and bring them to the forefront of the discussions
during monitoring exercises of the new project.
The Report turns the 20% decentralised budget into an achievement. The fact is that the budget was
already 20% decentralised at the time of the appraisal of the project in 1993!
7. One issue of importance that is only briefly discussed is donor co-ordination, which is said to
have been inadequate. This point needs further elaboration, without which the report will have failed
to deal with a crucial issue.
Decentralisation with management contracts, Health information system development and
introduction of model of care and resource allocation system and cost accounting system at
decentralised level featured as important elements in the health reform project. The W3B report
should analyse how inadequate donor co-ordination has negatively influenced these aspect of the
reform, which role MINSA (and PAHO!) has played in the donor co-ordination and streamlining
of health reform at SILAIS level, and last but not least, which role the WB itself has played in
trying to bring the different actors and implementation models together. Such and analysis
obviously would have bearings on the implementation of the new current health modemisation
project.
8. It is stated that the new administration after the Sandinista government guided "Nicaragua's first
experience with democracy". This statement is a very political one, and should not be included in a
report of this nature; and one that could easily add to an already politicised debate in Nicaragua.
9. In order to end on a positive note, the report is well made, rich in information and analysis, and
quite frank! The achievements made should be duly noted, and the report should be used as a tool
during continued follow-up and dialogue with MINSA, WB and other donors.
70



Appendix C
Map IBRD No. 25188
Note: The map on the following page is the map that appears in the Staff Appraisal Report
for Credit 2556-NI. It indicates the boundaries of the SILAIS at the time of project
preparation. During the life of the project, the three SILAIS of Managua (Managua Oriental,
Managua Central and Managua Occidental) were merged into one SILAIS, reducing the total
number of SILAIS from 19 to 17.
71






X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~86'                                                                       84- 
NICARAGUA                                                  HONDURAS   o                                                                          =1h.
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                                                                                            W LAGOON
Projed SILAIS *                                                             Bl     mont he w                                                 wp,
SILAIS division boundaries                 Rat               Phaiu
(J    National capitalg  
Cities and towns                                                                            t
International Boundaries        JAaray           (f                 >1>                     t
-i A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sorzit
CoAa                                                                         c Ie C6beos
0  tJ I N O T E G A/                                         L AGiOO         B     W    CNSEA
P~.irtoSaeina ntONURA
~~~N U E V A    {   J                                %        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVAO
Mrk Mori cotalJ1                                         RAA                             IXJA LAWON 
\ < i) L a  vigia  <                               '        r         E
$   _5  7  -               _/Js                        -                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PueflD Isabet
Patosi\ t Somofillor                    \   ,-, MVA   TAGC  AG A                                                     4PAG Ao0 IO  120  140  16
:> | ~~~~~~~~~MaMtagalpa                                     /                                           L~_                                      I KLiOMEMES
MCHINANDEGAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4             AA S%1!   2  60                                               80     100,
CtihndegX Malpoisillrao                                                                                                 O  AC
CorinFnh    O N                a Le6n  d 
~~~~~~~~~~~L LLibertad                          )RMO                                    I fR SANDS . 16  L     CARIBBEANhtSEA4s
[~~~~Pet Sdi>X_^Nn                                          tiRIaCHONTALl deS1                                                                    HONDUPM          :
12'                  Juigalpa   CHONTALES                      I efields~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CST
M    UA OPIENTAL                                                                                           J   DSon Ubaldo  B   SLUEFiSRAY
MA4NAGUA CEN- / ie O im / -SAVDRr
|   MANAGUA OCCIDENTAL           C ,       O                                 L                                                                  1    NICARASJ AI
-    \  Penos Bbncgs   X  ;og    9        PUNR ~~GORDA SAY                   Area of Ma
PACIFIC OCEAN                                                                     SnJade or s  COSTA.
O JUA DEL \NOR2TERAY                                                                                                                       ,        r  KILOMETERS      RICA
San Juan del Norte                MtLES
COSTA                                                                                  100
0  * Under the Primary Health Care comporent-                    R I C A                                                                              PACIFIC OCAN            PAMN
X    _~ ~ ~~ ~Cr _          opnes          At                                                     84.\8Fw
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
('5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



