c           Y       -L-A-cs/ I
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12393-NI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
NOVEMBER 24, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12393 NI
Type: SAR
Country Department II
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a resicted distbution ad may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offichi dutis Its contents may aot oewise be disclosed without Would Bank authozaon.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
US$1 = 6.2 Nicaragua Cordoba (C) (November 1993)
SDR 1.0 = US$1.3934 (November 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2
I Metric Ton (mt) = 1,000 kg
1 Kilometer (km) = 1,000 m
1 Cubic Meter (m3) = 1,000 liters (l)
1 Liter (1) = 1,000 milliliters (ml)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ARI   Acute Respiratory Infections
CIPS    Center for Supply of Pharmaceutical Products
DAM    Department of Medical Supply
DANIDA    Danish International Development Agency
ERC    Economic Recovery Credit
FISE    Nicaraguan Social Investment Fund
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
IDA    International Development Association
IDB    InterAmerican Development Bank
IEC    Information, Education, and Communication
IMF   International Monetary Fund
INSSBI   Nicaraguan Social Security Institute
KfW    German Credit Institute for Reconstruction (Kreditanstalt pir
Wiederaufoau)
LCB    Local Competitive Bidding
LIB    Limited International Bidding
LSMS   Living Standards Measurement Survey
MIS   Management Information System
MOH    Ministry of Health
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
ORS   Oral Rehydration Salts
PAHO    PanAmerican Health Organization
PCU    Project Coordinating Unit
PHC    Primary Health Care
PROFAMILIA    Nicaraguan NGO for Family Planning
SILAIS    Departnental Health Units
SOEs   Statement of Expenditures
TORs   Terms of Reference
UNFPA    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Defense Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......................... v
I. INTRODUCTION ..............                                                            1
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR - BACKGROUND AND ISSUES .................  3
A. The Health Care System  .................................  3
Public Health Sector Organization and Functions ................  3
Social Security Institute ................................  4
Private Sector  .....................................  4
C. Key Sector Issues .....................................  5
Limited Institutional Capacity ..........5.........   S
Deficiencies in Supply of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies ...    .... 10
Deterioration of Physical Facilities ......................... 14
Financing in the Health Sector ........................... 15
D. Government Sectoral Strategy .............................. 17
Decentralizing Health Services ........................... 18
hnplementing a Redefmed Primary Health Care Model ....            ........ 18
Strengthening Supply and Distribution of Pharmaceutical Products  ... .. 18
Rehabilitating Health Facilities ........................... 19
Strengthening Cost Recovery  ............................ 19
III. LESSONS LEARNED FROM EXPERIENCE, COORDINATION WITH
OTHER DONORS, AND IDA STRATEGY  ........                 ..       ............. 19
A. Lessons Leaned from Experience ........................... 19
Government Commitment, National Inter-Agency Coordination, and
Implementation Capacity  .      ......................... 20
Flexibility and Simple Design ............................ 21
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators . ....................... 21
Staff Mix and Assignment in Remote Areas  ...................              21
Adequate Supervision ............................                          22
Project Sustinabiity ............................                          22
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions which visited
Nicaragua in July and September 1993. Mission members were J. J. de Saint Antoine
ML     , Task Manager), V. Nguyen (LA2HR), J. Cercone (LATHR), H. Sanchez, C.
Oyarzo, P. Cross, F. Vio, N. Gillespie, J. Kleinman (Consultants). Mr. Rune Lea (NORAD)
pardciated in the pre-appraisal mission. Mr. Nguyen contributed to the report both in the
field and at headquarters. Messrs. Edilberto L. Segura (LA2DR) and Kye Woo Lee (LA2HR)
are the Department Director and Division Chief, respectively, for this operation. Peer
reuiewers are X. Coll (LA4HR) and K. Lashman (LA3HR).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
B. Coordination With Other Donors ............................   22
C. IDA Strategy and Role  .................................. 23
IV. THE PROJECT .......................................... 24
A. Objectives .......................................... 24
B. Description of Components  ............................... 25
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of MOH  ............... 25
Component 2: Primary Health Care ........................ 32
Component 3: Pharmaceutical Supply and Distribution System   ...                  .... 34
Component 4: Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Hospitals and Other
Health Facilities ................................ 36
Component 5: Technical Assistance to INSSBI ................. 38
Component 6: Project Administration ....................... 39
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   ..........                           .................. 40
A. Project Costs ............ ...................... 40
B. Financing Plan ........... 41
Cofinancing ........... 41
C. Incremental Recumrent Costs and Project Sustainability   .............. 41
D. Procurement  .         ....................................... 42
E. Disbursements ........................................ 45
F. Accounting and Auditing ..........                     ....................... 46
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...... .......... 46
A. Project Implementation and Management ....................... 46
B. Project Monitoring and Supervision Strategy ..................... 47
Anmual Reviews  .           ................................... 47
Mid-Term  Review  ............                  ....................... 48
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS  .............                            ....................... 48
Project Benefits .      ........................................ 48
Project Economic Benefits  ...........                    ....................... 48
Project Risks .......................................... 51
Enviromnental Rating ..................................... 51
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                                          .......... 51
Recommendation ........................................ 55



Anneme
1.    County an Health Indicators
2.    Health Sector Policy Letter
3.    Health Sector Expenditrs and Finacing
4.    MOH Organization Chart
5.    Terms of Reference for Institutional Strengthening Technical Assistae
6.    Redefined Primary Health Care Model
7.    Human Resources Development Subprojects
8.    Existing Family Planning Program  in Nicaragua
9.    Pharmaceutical Supply and Distribution
10.   Emergency Rebabilitation of Hospitals
11. Maintenance System for Health Facilities
12. Technical Assistance to INSSBI
13.  Project Costs
14.   Finaning Plan
15.  Methods of Procurement
16.   Disbrsements
17. Project Coordinating Unit
18.  Project Action Plan
19.  Project Implementation Schedule
20.  Key Monitoring Indicators
21.   Coordination between Donors
22.   Supersion Plan and Mid-Term Review
23. Documents in Project File
MAP IEBRD No. 25188



NICARAGUA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUlMMARY
Borrower:               The Republic of Nicaragua
Beneficiaries:          Ministry of Health (MOH) and Social Security Institute
(INSSBI)
Amount:                 SDR10.8 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity including 10 years
of grace
Project Objectives:     The objective of the project is to enhance Nicaragua's health
status by supporting the implementation of the Government's
new strategy for the health sector. In particular, the project
would aim to: (a) improve the institutional capacity and
management systems of MOH; (b) increase the quality of
service delivery; and (c) strengthen the financing of the sector
by increasing cost recovery at the secondary level.
Project Description:    The project has six components: (a) Institutional Strenaghenin
Of MOH (US$2.6 million, equivalent to 12.9 percent of total
project cost including contingencies) would provide technical
assistance to (i) help decentralize budget implementation,
improve resource allocation, introduce service provision
arrangements with the Departmental Health Units (SILAIS), and
increase cost recovery, (ii) design and carry out human
resources development and manpower planning and training
programs, and (iii) strengthen the MIS; (b) Primary Health Care
(US$7.0 million, or 34.8 percent) introduces a new PHC model
nationwide, where preventive care is emphasized and parallel
programs, including family planning, are integrated at the local
level; the project would support PHC by fmancing (i) essential
drugs for priority interventions, 'Ii) training of health services
delivery personnel, (iii) information, education, and
communication (IEC) activities, (iv) rehabilitation of PHC
facilities in seven of the poorest SILAIS, and (v) a monitoring
and evaluation system; (c) Pharmaceutical Supmly and
Distribution System (US$3.2 million, or 15.9 percent) would
improve the supply and distribution of essential drugs and
pharmaceutical supplies by (i) conducting studies and providing
technical assistance to improve policy, regulation, and fiancing,
including operating a pilot private pharmacy within an MOH
hospital (ii) improving inventory management, strengthening
MIS, rehabilitating storage areas, and increasing private sector



- vi -
distribution, and (iii) assessing the nature and level of irrational
use of pharmaceuticals and starting to reduce its incidence; (d)
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Hospitals (US$5.3 million, or
26.4 percent) would finance (i) emergency rehabilitation
subprojects for hospita!3 and (ii) the design of a proper
maintenance system, including a study to analyze the impact on
recurrent costs so that these costs may be properly budgeted for
by the MOH; (e) Tehnical Assistance to INSSBI (US$1.0
million, or 5 percent) would help (i) design and implement a
health insune  program, for which INSSBI would rirchase
health services from the MOH and the private sector and (ii)
design and implement a workmen's compensation program and
carly out the preliminary economic and actuarial studies to
evaluate the feasibility of reforming the pension system; and (f)
Project Administation (US$1.0 million, or 5 percent) would
finance consultant services and operating costs of the Project
Coordination Unit.
idmInistration:         A Project Coordinating Unit would be established in the MOH
to assist this ministry in achieving timely and effective
implementation of the project, to manage studies, surveys, and
technical assistance, and to undertake monitoring and evaluation
of the project.
Benefits:               The project would have a significant impact on the financial
equibrium of the health sector by reducing the cost of
providing services and introducing mechanisms to recover a
share of those costs. With respect to savings, the project would
bring: (a) improvements in the pharmaceutical procurement,
distribution, and prescription practices; (b) reductions in the unit
cost of providing primary health me services through the
integration of parallel programs as the amount of staff time and
the opporunity cost of patients would be significantly reduced;
(c) improved maintenance and rehabilitation of physical facilities
and medical equipment that would defer capital investments,
reduce operating costs, produce more predictable output levels,
and increase public satisfaction. Decentralization of the budget
would result in better cost-effectiveness of health spending. At
the same time, availability and quality of health care would be
improved. On the revenue side, additional income would be
generated through increased cost recovery at the secondary
level. If a reasonable 50 percent implementation success rate
were reached, economic benefits from the pharmaceuticals and
primary health care components would reach US$2.7 million,
and cost recovery measures introduced by the MOH would
amount to US$13.8 million (principally through sale of services
to INSSBI). Should all these savings be properly invested by
the MOH in extending services at the current cost of US$18 per



- vii -
capita, coverage could be increased from the present 3.0 million
beneficiaries (70 percent of the population) to 3.9 million (90
percent). Direct beneficiaries under the primary health care
component would represent about 21 percent of the population.
Risks:                  The main risks are: (a) the feasibility of accomplishing a
reform program given Nicaragua's weak institutional base; (b)
possible delays by MOH to implement policy reforms because of
likely opposition from affected interest groups (such as unions,
medical associations, pharmaceutical suppliers); and (c)
Government counterpart fiuancing constraints. Risk (a) would
be mitigated by a gradual implementation of reforms in line with
building of institutional capacity through technical assistance and
the training of managers who would implement dhe reforms.
Risk (b) would be mitigated by donors' united support of
reform, the MOH's strong commitment to reform, and the
Governent's consensus-building through the staging of
seminars with various interest groups to discuss the reform.
Risk (c) would be mitigated by limiting the level of Government
participation to 10 percent of total project cost and receiving a
multi-anmal commitnent from the Government to provide
counterpart funds.
Environmental Category: The project would have no adverse environmental impact and is
classified as C.
Poverty Category:       The project would support a program of targeted intervention.
The project would help reduce poverty through: (a)
establishment of a decentralized and improved health care
delivery system which would immediately benefit under-served
poor populations in remote areas; (b) strong emphasis on
primary health care in seven of the poorest SILAIS; and (c)
improvement of resource management and mobilization which
would enable the Government to continue providing free
essential health services to the poor.



- viii -
Project Costs
Local   Foreign    Total
- US$ million
Institutional Strengthening of MOH               0.4       2.0       2.4
Primary Health Care                              1.7       4.8       6.5
Pharmaceutical Supply System                     0.7       2.4       3.1
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Hospitals      1.4       3.4       4.8
Technical Assistance to INSSBI                   0.2       0.7       0.9
Project Adminstration                            0.8       0.2        1.0
Total Baseline Cost                       5.2       13.5      18.7
Physical Contingencies                    0.1        0.5       0.6
Price Contingencies                       0.2        0.6       0.8
TOTAL COSTA'                              5.5       14.6      20.1
ancing Pan
Local   Foreign    Total
Government of Nicaragua                          2.1       0.0       2.1
IDA                                              2.9      12.1       15.0
Norway                                           0.5       2.5       3.0
Total                                            5.5      14.6      20.1
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                    1994       1995       1996       1997
Annual                        1.52'     4.8         4.5        4.2
Cumulative                    1.5       6.3        10.8       15.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
jI Net of taxes and duties.
21 Includes the initial deposit of US$1.5 million to the Special Account and retroactive financing of
US$0.75 million (5 percent of Credit) for eligible expendiues incured after October 1, 1993.



NICARAGUA
HEALTH SECTOR REFOIM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1.  This report presents a Health Sector Refonn Project for which an IDA Credit of
SDR10.8 million (US$15 million equivalent) to the Republic of Nicaragua is proposed.
Total project c .ot is estimated at US$20. 1 million. This report describes the health sector,
analyzes the issues it faces, and presents the Government's strategy to address these issues.
The report then proposes IDA's involvement in the financing of che Government's health
sector reform program, and provides parameters for project implementation. The
Government has presented its health sector reform program in a policy letter (para. 2.3 and
Annex 2).
1.2. Nicaragua is one of Latin America's poorest countries, with a per capita GDP
estimated at US$422 in 1992, substantially lower than the US$850 level prevailing in the late
1970s. When the Chamorro Government took office in April 1990 after a decade of civil
strife, it had to transform the centrally planned economy into a market-oriented system. In
1991-1992, the Government successfully implemented a comprehensive stabilization and
adjustment program, supported by an International Monetary Fund (IMF) Stand-by
arrangement and an IDA Economic Recovery Credit (ERC, September 1991). Inflation was
reduced to single-digit annual rates, and GDP recorded a modest growth in 1992. A major
challenge ahead for the Govemment is to maintain the recent stabilization gains in the face of
lower external resource inflows while simultaneously improving the conditions for resuming
growth with equity. At the same time, a drastic reduction in total consumption will be
needed to increase domestic savings and release resources for investment. This poses
another challenge, i.e., to prevent the anticipated consumption decline from adversely
affecting the living standards of the poorest and most vulnerable members of the population.
To enhance the viability of the economic adjustment process, social conditions need to be
improved and efficiency of social programs increased; hence the importance of the proposed
health sector reform project for the Govermnent's overall development strategy.
1.3.  For over a decade, Nicaragua has undertaken a major effort to improve the health
status of its population. Between 1979 and 1993, total health facilities, including health and
medical posts, health centers, and hospitals, increased from 172 to 850. Coverage was
extended from 30 percent to 70 percent of the population, aid quality of care improved
somewhat during the early 1980s, especially at the primary level. At the beginning of the
1990s, however, it became clear that although the Government had spent as much as 5 to 7
percent of GDP on health during the previous decade, health gains have not been as great as
one might have expected. In recent years, inefficiencies in the public health system have
been exacerbated, and quality of care has deteriorated substantially both at the primary and
the secondary levels. On the supply side, overall scarcity of financing and misallocation of
financial and human resources have led to the decline in quality of care. Nicaragua has been



-2 -
suffering from major shortages in basic medicines and medical supplies throughout the health
system (pans. 2.22-2.23). This has resulted in prolonged treatment requirements,
exacerbation of illnesses, and has caused considerable harm to the Government's image as a
health care provider. It has also led to lack of credibility, dissatisfaction, and high turnover
among health workers. On th. .emand side, demographic factors, combined with a lack of
enforcement of referral systems among levels of care have resulted in increases in the
demand for services at higher-level facilities which are more costy to operate. As shortages
were usually greatest at the primary health care (PHC) level, patients bypassed the first level
of care in the community in favor of secondaty level facilities which bave become
overcrowded and have misused resources against their comparative advantage. Many of the
above problems originated from an excessive centralization of decision-making, complicated
procedures, and lack of good communications between departments within the Ministry of
Health (MOH).
1.4.  At the beginning of the 1990s, public complaints about the system became frequent.
Furthermore, the tight fiscal situation pointed to the need for improving efficiency in the use
of sector resources. In 1991, recognizing the need to reform the system, the Government
took some initial reform measures by decentralizing health services into 19 regional units, the
S*LATS, which would have more fiscal and decision-making autonomy, and would be in
closer contact with local realities. Some improvements have already been noted in PHC
since the introduction of the SILAIS (such as high vaccination coverage,1' an interesting case
of integrated PHC service delivery (pan. 2.19) in the Le6n SILAIS, slight improvements in
availability of pharmaceuticals at the local level as the SILAIS have been authorzed to
purchase limited amounts of pharmaceuticals, and increases in cost recovery by a number of
health facilities which used these funds wisely on items such as fuel for ambulances,
rehabilitation of infrastructure, or bonuses to nurses), and this initiative has paved the way
for major reforms expressed in a new health sector strategy (pans. 2.33-2.34) which the
Government started to implement in early 1993. Under this strategy, futher decentralization
of administrative functions and fiscal resources would improve care in both medical and
economic terms. This would free resources to allow the Government to maintain per capita
spending on health as the population increases, and in the longer term would help provide
resources for more complex care that will be necessary as changes in the epidemiological
profile of the population takes place. Additionally, reforms in the Social Security Istitute's
(INSSBI) health insuance system (Annex 12) would lead to a gradual increase of the private
sector as a contributor to health services provision, introduce healthy competition, and free
up Govermment resources which could be applied to serve the poor.
11 As of June 1993, vaccination coverage of children under one year old was 90 percent for tuberculosis,
67 pent for measles, 98 percent for polio, and 88 percent for DPI.



- 3 -
H. THE HEALTH SECTOR - BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
A. The Health Care System
2.1. Public Health Sector Organization and Functions. Health care is largely the
responsibility of the MOH, which handles a network of approximately 850 facilities (para.
2.21) fairly well distributed throughout the countty, roughly in line with population
distribution. The MOH is the second largest ministry and received 14.6 percent of the
central government budget in 1992. The MOH employs 21,000 persons, which account for
29 percent of all public sector employees.
2.2.  The central office of the MOH has a staff of about 400 (para. 2.15) and is resonsible
for the formulation of alt public health policies, definition of norms and stndards applied on
a nationwide basis, broad health planning and monitoring, and purchasing of pharmaceical
and medical supplies. This office is stll too large in terms of overall staffing and some of
the personnel is currendy being redeployed to the Department Health Units (SILAIS) (para.
2.15). It is organized into two large departments, each headed by a Vice-Minister. The first
Vice-Minister is in charge of the medical functions, which includes basic health, hygiene,
epidemiological surveillance, and therapeutic norms. The other Vice-Minister is responsible
for administrative, fmancial, and economic aspects, including infrastrucue and maitenane,
pharmaceutical and medical supplies, personnel, and accounting. Also responding directly to
the Minister are the Secretary General, who is in charge of the coordination of the 19
SILAIS, and the Director of the health strategy and institutional development department.
The organizational chart of the MOH is presented in Annex 4. Because of the ongoing
decentalization program, furiher adjustments to this organization are expected as the process
evolves. The Government policy letter describes the health sector reform (para. 2.34) and
includes a summary description of the role of the Ministry of Health central office in the
decetalized health model and the adjustments in personnel management ecessary to
implement this policy. Support to strenghen the MOH's institutional capacity in the context
of the decentralization program will be addressed under the project (paras. 4.24.10).
2.3. Since 1991, the SILAIS has been the basic organizational unit of the system at the
local level. There are 19 SILAIS corresponding to the country's 16 departments plus the
capital, Managua, which was divided into 3 SILAIS. They report to the Minister through the
Secretary General's office in charge of SILAIS coordination. The SILAIS are responsible
for the operation of all PHC facilities and hospitals in their geographical area. This
represents, on average, about 40 facilities per SILAIS. The SILAIS include a management
unit headed by a Director, assisted by a medical assistant director and an administve
assistant director, each with a staff of 4-5 persons. The SILAIS system has fostered the
entusiasm and inidative of local administrators who look forward to the enh  of
their responsibilities. Since SILAIS Directors are medical doctors with limited management
training, their administrative skills will need strengthening for decentalization to be
wccessful. Under the project, technical assistance and management training wotld be
provided to increase management capacity at the SILAIS level (paras. 4.6-4.8). As



- 4 -
management training will take some time to bear its fruits, decentralization has been
conceived as a gradual process (paras. 2.34 and 4.6).
2.4. Social Security Institute (INSSBI). INSSBI is in charge of administering the social
security system and certain welfare activities such as social centers for street children or
support to handicapped war veterans, which were transferred from the Ministry of Social
Welfare. Formerly INSSBI also administered a health system for its affiliates, but these
activities were transferred to the MOH in 1979. The institution is financed through: (a)
total contributions from workers and employers ranging from 8.5 to 17.5 percent of salaried
income, depending on the industry and its location; (b) profits of the lottery; and (c)
subsidies from the Government. INSSBI has a total staff of 3,000. Like at the MOH, the
composition of the staffing is unbalanced, with an excess of unqualified staff and a scarcity
of technical specialists. Under the project, this would be addressed through the provision of
technical assistance (paras. 4.254.27).
2.5.  The INSSBI health insurance program covers today about 220,000 workers,
representing 5.5 percent of the total population and less than 25 percent of the economically
active population. The program has become little attractive to its affiliates as it does not
provide them with health services any better than those the population generally receives free
of charge from the MOH. Under the project, this would be addressed through a reform of
the health insurance program (para. 4.25).
2.6.  Private Sector. In response to increasing deficiencies in the public health system, the
private sector has undergone some growth in the past several years, but its share of
institutional health delivery is still small. It is estimated that NGOs and private providers
serve about 5 percent of the population, with services limited mostly to outpatient curative
care and private phannacies. In 1987, NGOs and the private sector operated seven hospitals
with a total of about 200 beds and over 200 clinics. The largest private hospital, with 40
beds, is located in Managua. Most of the MOH's 2,700 doctors maintain some type of
private practice, i.e., they usually see private patients for about three to four hours per day
(beyond their normal eight hours for the MOH) in their own private practices. They are also
allowed to use MOH hospital facilities for private inpatients, with the hospital charging for
room and board, drugs, and other services while the doctor is allowed to collect his fees.
There are an estimated additional 400 fully private doctors (very rough estimate as no list or
survey is available). As a result of shortages in the public sector, a significant amount of
drugs are purchased from the private sector. Following the liberalization of the
pharmaceutical market in 1990, the number of private importers increased from eight in 1990
to 67 in 1992 and private pharmacies increased from 200 in 1990 to over 400 in 1993. The
country's pharmaceutical industry comprises 17 laboratories, which do mostly formulation.
INSSBI's health insurance reform and its decision to purchase services from thid parties
provide strong incentives for further growth of the private sector. There has been no
rigorous study on the private health sector in Nicaragua and the above mnmbers are therefore
rough estimates. More information on the sector will be obtained from data collected in the
on-going Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS) supported by IDA under the Social
Investment Fund Project (FISE) (Credit 2434-NI, approved in November 1992).



- 5 -
C. Key Sector issues
2.7. Several issues currently affecting the Nicaragua health system need to be addressed by
the Government: (a) limited institutional capacity; (b) imadequaW PHC model; (c)
deficiencies in the supply of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies; (d) deterioration of health
facilities; and (e) limits in available public sector fmancing.
2.8. Limited Institutfonal CapacIty. Managerial inefficiencies at the central office of the
MOH and at the SILAIS constrain sector development. El"= 0jAy is weak,
particularly in regard to multi-year planming that responds to national policies and nonrs, and
local conditions are hardly taken into consideration. There is also limited capability for
harmonizing short-term investment and operational needs with long-term investment
requirements. This is aggravated by the shortage of staff with traning and experience in
strategic planning and budgeting.
2.9.  The transfer of administrative responsibilitv to the SILAIS remained theoretical until
recently, as the SIL TS did not have the flexibility to adjust their operations to potentially
important variations at the local level. For example, they could not transfer budget resources
from one line item to another. This has started to change in August 1993, as some limited
reallocations were permitted. Furdtermore, SILAIS Directors and their staff are not properly
trained to supervise activities at the service level. Efforts are also being made to monitor
and assess the quality of services provided. This would be stengthened under the project,
which would help implement service provision arrangements between the central MOH office
and the SILAIS (para. 4.4).
2.10. Another issue is the low ntumal     i hgDAh. Hospital aministative
practices are outdated and do not allow hospital directors to combine input factors efficiently
to extract good quality senvces from limited resources. This is an important issue as the
cost of secondary level care currently represe;ts about 50 percent of the MOH budget and
significant efficiency gains may be possible to free resources to increase coverage and quality
of PHC services. A wide range of modern management skills and systems are lacking.
Although health and financial data are collected, these are not oriented to management
requirements. Performance monitoring indicators are not currently used as management tools
and the lack of information about the cost of services makes it difficult to determine the
amount of reurces that could be released by the reduction of some services or by the
adjusutent of fees which could generate fmancing for other priorities. Also, significant data
processing and analysis is done manually, without the aid of computes, resulig in delays in
decision-making and monitoring of performance. Improvement of hospital mant is
currenly being addressed under an InterAmerican Developamt Bank (1DB) project (para.
2.26). The proposed project would finance the rebabilitation of hospitals and the design of a
maintenance system for health facilities (paras. 4.234.24).
2.11. Current  'd&AM  prai   provide no incentive to improve the overall efficiency.
The MOH is both the fmancier and producer of hea!th services and, as services are free as a
general rle, there has been practically no demand control policy. Furdtrmore, resources
are allocated throughout the sector based on historical trends, with little responsiveness to the



- 6 -
changing demands of the population and a lack of financial accountability on how the
resources are spent and whether they meet the stated objectives of the national health policy
in an efficient manner. Thus, there is a need for changes in the budget system, making it
responsive to programs with clear measurable objectives (para. 4.4).
2.12. The ManaiUmneDt Infonnation System (MIS) is currendy being improved, but remains
weak and incomplete. The MOH is in the process of developing an extensive database on
various health service indicators including, inter alia, hospital discharges, outpatient visits by
diagnostic group, number of laboratory exams by specialty, and various indicators of
efficiency and productivity such as average length of stay by diagnostic group and occupancy
rate. This information is collected by the lower level facilities in the health care system and
then introduced into the system at the SILAIS level where it is subsequently delivered to the
MOH on diskettes. The information system includes a module for epidemiological and
uLtritional surveillance, which collects data from every health unit where children under five
years of age are examined, weighed and measured. Despite a wealth of information, a lack
of manageable and interpretable indicators for policy-making, planmnig, and management
purposes constains the effectiveness of the MIS. In addition, the system lacks necessary
financial and accounting information. There is no proper personnel information system, and
fnancial, acounng, pharmaeucals, and inventory information systems are highly
inadequate. The project would support the development of an MIS to provide the MOH with
the necessary information in a timely manner to carry out its policy-making functions and
monitoring and evaluation of operational functions (paras. 4.9-4.10).
2.13. The gaff=g of the MOH is characterized by: (a' weak personnel management; (b) an
inadequate distrbution of staff through health facilities; (c) a high level of overall staffing;
(d) a scarcity of health managers; and (e) a critical shortage of mnrses. Personnel policy is
weak, and there is little manpower planning. There are few clear policies and procedures,
and there is no complete staff register, which makes it impossible to plan the overall
distribution of human resources and optimize their use. For the same reason, it is difficult
for the MOH to properly inform tning  stitutions on what personnel needs to be trained to
reach the proper mix required by its health care delivery model. Neither is there a health
career path nor objective criteria for promotions. The latter are based on the assessment of
SILAIS or hospital directors and are strongly influenced by seniority. As a result, personnel
morale is low, and turnover high (about 30 percent anmally over the 1990-92 period).
Productvity has been seriously affected by mnmerous strikes during the period 1990-92, but
there have been no work stoppage since the change in management of the MOH in Jamuary
1993. The personnel management issues would be addressed under the Human Resources
Development s           of the project (pam. 5.6(a)) and the long-term benefits of fuure
measures would be carefully balanced against the short-term risk of their causing disruptions
in service delivery that could jeopdize the rest of the health sector reform.
2.14. Initial indications are that the staff is inefficiently distibuted. Although no overall
staistics are available, a partial survey of the three Managua SILAIS shows overstaffing in
some categories at some facilities and understaffing at others. There is also an excess of
doctors in Managua and a deficit in rural areas, which the Goverment has started to rmody



- 7 -
by providing bonuses to doctors relocating in rural areas. A complete survey of MOH staff
distribution would be undertaken under the project (para. 4.5).
2.15. The MOH staff level of 21.000 may still be high. However, a sound assessment
cannot be made as there is no available analysis comparing the needs of the health system
with the actual staffing. This would be undertaken under the project (para. 4.5). The
Goverjment has already made some serious efforts to reduce staffing: 3,000 staff were laid
off in 1990 and there has been a hiring freeze since then. Lessons learned, however, show
that this is a delicate area where futu-e decisions have to be carefully deliberated. The 3,000
staff were laid off under the Occupational Conversion Plan of 1990, which purported to
reduce public sector employment. Participation was voluntary and compensation packages
were provided. However, as layoff priority criteria were inadequate, a large number of
high-quality nurses, health inspectors, and medical technicians were lost. In line with
decentralization efforts, the central office of the MOH was reduced from 1,500 in 1990 to
400 in 1993. About 50 more staff are expected to be transferred to the SILAIS during 1994,
after which the staffing of the central office of the MOH would be satisfactoty.
2.16. While there is an oversized administrative staff (about 20 percent of all MOH
personnel in 1991), there is a great scarcity of health managers. There are currently some
initial efforts of the MOH supported by the PanAmerican Health Organization (PAHO) to
strengthen the curriculum of the National Autonomous University to increase the number and
quality of health managers and economists. These efforts would be complemented under the
project which would help train health managers at the central and SILAIS level (paras. 4.6-
4.8).
2.17. Finally, there is a critical shortage of nurses. During the early 1980s, the MOH
made a huge effort to train nurses and increase their seaffing fivefold, but many have left the
MOH to work in other sectors, principally because of limited salary incentives and lack of
recogniton despite three years of studies in nursing. As a result, there is a nurse:doctor
ratio of less than 1:1, resldting in a higher use of doctors than is necessary for simple tasks
and more expensive care.Y This issue was brought up to the attention of the Government
early during project preparation. During recent months, the Government has started to take
a number of steps to improve the nurse:doctor ratio. A first set of measures consists of
slowing down the recruitment of doctors by the MOH as follows: (a) resident doctors'
training for specialties are not guaranteed any more to be recruited by the MOH as a matter
of course; (b) specialists on the MOH payroll are being reduced by shifting these doctors to
hourly contracts and removing them from the MOH payroll; (c) discussions are being held
with the University to reduce the number of students accepted per year for medical studies
(especially the mber of specialists); and (d) inters are being put on scholarships instead of
the regular payroll of the MOH; at the completion of their training, the MOH assigns them,
on a take-it-or-leave-it basis, a job in the areas of highest priority need for doctors. The
' There is no optimal level of physiciams per capita or optimal murse-to-physician rato, but a rule of
thumb is that nmuses should exceed physicians by at least two to one (the ratio is five to one in Africa, but
wel under two to one in China, India, Latin America, and the Middle Eastern crescent). Sources:
World Development Report 1993 - Invesrg in Healh.



- 8 -
MOH intends to provide hospital access to doctors who establish private practices as soon as
unit costs of health facilities use are established. To increase the number of nurses, the
MOH (a) wiU recruit 300 new nurses in 1994, of which 150 will be nursing school graduates
and 150 former nurses who had left the MOH earlier; (b) has started to provide a special
bonus to attract and maintain nurses; and (c) allows part of the user fees collected in certain
health facilities to be used to provide special incentives to nurses or to increase the number
of nurses in their facilities as needed. Further measures would be taken under the project,
which would finance a study of the health labor market in Nicaragua and propose measures
to improve the nurse:doctor ratio (para. 4.5).
2.18. While the Government's PHC program is well-focused, the current service delivery
model is not cost-effective. The MOH places strong emphasis on PHC. The PHC package
includes the right mix of health interventions to address the problems described in the
epidemiological profile (see box next page). The basic health package covers acute
respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases, maternal and child health care, family planning,
malnutriton, immuno-preventible diseases, tuberculosis and malaria, plus the treatnent of
minor trauma and a number of interventions for chronic diseases (described in detail in
Annex 6). However, the method of service delivery is not cost-effective. First, it relies too
much upon curative care. Doctors, who earn three times more than auxiliary staff (roughly
comparable to a 4:1 ratio in the United States), regularly treat what could have been less
expensively prevented by well-trained auxiliary nurses. This is reinforced by the fact that
PHC depends disproportionately on doctors. Over the 1985-1989 period, there was an
average of 1.7 total consultations per capita annually, of which preventive consultations per
capita were only 0.5. An example of the curative bias is the excessive focus on hospital
rehydration to control acute diarrheal disease, and the lack of effort to prevent diarrhea
through enviromnental sanitation programs and hygiene and nutrition education or to promote
simple home oral rehydration treatment.
2.19. The second reason for the higher cost of the current PHC model is the delivery of
PHC services through vertical programs which are operated in parallel and are independent
in policy, human resources, and equipment. As typically found in health facilities,
immunization is provided in one room of a health center, growth monitoring and nutrition
education in another, and pre-natal care in yet another room, with each functon conducted
by different personnel. Post-natal care is separated from family planning. The failure to
integrate maternal health and child survival interventons at the local level has unnecessarly
increased the human resource requirements of the health delivery system, duplicating
personnel and resources, increasing the number of rooms required to provide the basic mix
of services, and wastng the time of mothers visiting the health center. This would be
addressed under the project through the introduction of a redefined PHC model (paras. 4.11-
4.17).
2.20. The third reason is that as a result of patients' dissatisfaction at the PHC level, the
referral system does not work properly, with many people bypassing the primary level and
seeking services directly at hospitals. The problem started to develop during the mid-1980s
when patients with routine illness began queuing up outside hospitals while urban health
centers and posts were sometimes without patients. This occurred principally because of lack



-9-
Nicaragua's   drame Pro
1.    The public health care system reaches about 70 percent of the population. Yet,
Nicaragua remains at an early stage of epidemiological transition with high infbt d matern
mortality and high fertility. The infant mortality rate has decreased from 121 per 1,000 in
1965 to 72 per 1,000 in 1992, but it remins the highest in Central America. The main causes
are diarrhea, perinatal diseases, and respiratory infections, simila to those in most dmeloping
countries, giving rise to 75 percent of all infant deaths and 50 percent of all child deats.
Maternal and early childhood malnutrition create the conditions conducive to this high
mortality. Prevalence of infant and child malnutrition range between 8 percent and 20 perceu
dtroughout the country. Also, there is a high level of maternal anutition, as inticated by a
United Nations Children's Defense Fund (UNICEF) estimate that 27 percent of babies have
low birth weights (under 2,500g), nearly twice Central America's average of 15 percent.
2.    Maternal mortality is high at 159 per 100,000 live births (1989). The main caue are
hemorrhages, toxemia, and sepsis; one third is produced by provoked abortion. The high
maternal mortality results from: (a) lack of adequate pre- and post-natal preventive care; (b)
high fertility rates, especially in rural areas, with low birth spacing; and (c) lack of an adequate
referral system for pregnant women. Sixty-five percent of all births currently occur at home,
14 percent of them without the assisunee of doctors, nmses, or midwives. Much of this infant
and maternal mortality is preventable and would be significantly reduced by improving delivery
of relatively simple interventions at the PHC level.
3.    Although the pattern of mortality is still dominated by diarrheal and infctious disea,
new health problems have started to appear in recent years as a result of a gradual shift frm a
rural subsistence economy to an urban industrial society. About 60 percent of the popuaion is
urban, and the urban population is growing more rapidly than the rural population. Tbere are
new risk factors such as exposure to pesticides, industrial accidents, traffic accidets, abuse of
alcohol and tobacco, inadequate diet, and lack of exercise, resuling in heart disaes, cancer,
and chronic and pulnonary disease. In the case of AIDS, often reated to urbnizaon,
increased income, illicit drugs, and more promiscuous behavior, Nicaragua has only 31 notified
cases.
4.    Nicaragua has started to take the right steps to address fan isues. The
country has a population estimated at 4.3 million in 1993, growing at a rate of 3.4 percent per
year. The current estimated total fertility rate of 5.5 is still high and similar to that of the
Latin American and Asian regions in the late 1950s. The previous Governnt was vigorously
opposed to family planning, which resulted in a gradual erosion in the deUvery of services by
the public sector. The present Government, however, has expressed its intnin to improve
the MOH's capacity for providing family planning services and introduce intensive family
planning education programs. This is included in the policy leter (para. 2.34 and Annex 2).
In 1993, modern contraceptive prevalence was estimated at 63 percent in uban areas
(reasonably high) and 38 percent (low) in rural areas, based on coverage by the MOH and
PROFAMILIA, the largest NGO in family planning in Nicaragua. Several dnrs, imcluding
USAID, Norway, and UNFPA are providing the MOH with tchncal assiace, tr   , and
logistical support for family planning. Given the heavy involvement of other donors, lIDA's
support under the proposed project would complement other donors' assistance by ensuring the
Implemetation of an integratd primary health care model, which Includes fmily planning.



- 10-
of medicines, medical supplies, and equipment, inadequate treatment norms, poor
supervision, and limited skills of new doctors in PHC facilities. A study in Manolo Morales
Hospital in Managua found that 70 percent of the patients treated in the emergency
department had no medical need to bypass their local PHC facility. In 1986, it was
estimated that 90 percent of the diarrhea cases attended by doctors could have been treated
by auxiliary nurses at the primary level. Under the project, this trend is expected to be
reversed by improving the quality of service at the primary level (paras. 4.11-4.17) and
introducing cost recovery at the secondary level (para. 4.4(e)).
2.21. The health system is organized in a pyramidal fashion such that, in principle, the
higher levels serve as referral points for the lower levels. However, there are no norms
defmning the system of referrals and counter-referrals and many patients bypass the primary
level. The system is organized into two levels: the primary and secondary levels.  The
primary level includes 690 health and medical posts and 134 health centers. Health posts
serve populations of less than 5,000. They are attended on a full-time basis by one or more
auxiliary nurses, providing basic primary care services and, in some cases, supervising
community level workers. Health posts also receive two to three visits by a doctor per
week. Medical posts provide the same services, but are permanently staffed with a doctor.
Health centers serve populations between 5,000 and 20,000 and are generally located in
municipal capitals. They are attended by several medical doctors, dentists, nurses, auxiliary
nurses, and technical and administrative staff. They provide PHC, medical consultations,
radiological and laboratory services, emergency care and referral, and dentistry services. In
addition to the MOH staff, over 10,000 trained health volunteers (brigadistas) and about
6,000 trained community birth attendants serve as outreach agents. These are unpaid
volunteers organized in local grassroots organizations which coordinate with the SILAIS
through the local health centers and posts. The brigadistas have proven efficient in
vaccination campaigns and less so on their routine day-to-day work where, often, their lack
of training has not allowed to detect cases that needed referrals early enough (e.g., severe
cases of diarrhea or acute respiratory infections suffered by babies). To help address that
issue, training would be provided to brigadistas under the project (para. 4.14). The
secondary level of care is provided by 20 general and seven national hospitals. General
hospitals, located in the deparanental capitals, provide the basic services such as gynecology,
obstetrics, pediatrics, internal medicine, and surgery. National hospitals, located in
Managua, consist of large referral hospitals (usually of about 200 beds each) and provide
specialized services such as ophthalmology, oncology, and rehabilitation. A list of the
country's hospitals is provided in Annex 11.
2.22. Deficiencies in Supply of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. In 1993, the
MOH budget for pharmaceuticals and medical supplies was US$13 million (drastically lower
than the 1992 budget of US$21.6 million), representing 17 percent of the total MOH budget
and about US$3 per capita. About three-quarters of drugs and supplies are purchased from
the international market and the rest from local manufactrrs. Forecasting of meeds is the
responsibility of the Pharmaceutical Planning Department while procurement, storage, and
distribution to the SILAIS is undertaken by the Center for Supply of Pharmaceutical Products
(Centro de Inswnos para la Sald, CIPS), a central MOH unit. The logistics system
operated by the CIPS is complex: several hundred different products, ranging from



- 11 -
temperature-sensitive vaccines to dnums of alcohol, are delivered over paved roads to
hospitals in Managua as well as over nearly-impassable roads to remote SILAIS on the
Caribbean coast. The responsibility of CIPS stops at the SILAIS level. The SILAIS are
responsible for distribution to the health centers which are tbemselves responsible for
distribution to the medical and health posts. A few products are distributed directly to MOH
facilities by suppliers. Overall, this is a rational scheme of decentralization, which facilitates
local responses to existing transport infrastructure, geography, and epidemiology.
2.23. The pharmaceutical sector has been poorly managed and has been facing a major
crisis which culminated in 1992 and early 1993 with shortages of drugs of up to 60 percent
throughout the system. This has induced consumers of health care either to bypass the
primary level and go to hospitals where the chance of availability of medicine was perceived
to be higher, or to purchase drugs from private pharmacies at relatively expensive prices.
There is a clear necessity to address the major shortcomings in the supply of drugs and
medical materials in the MOH system. Shortages of drugs due to defective needs
forecastng, inventory planning, and distribution, and losses through spoilage, theft, or
excessive prescribing impose a high cost on the system. There is an urgent need to: (a)
improve policy and regulation; (b) ensure proper selection, supply, and distribution of drugs
and pharmaceutical supplies at reasonable costs; (c) promote rational use of drugs through
the enforcement of an essential drugs policy and education of health prescribers and
consumers; and (d) study ways to improve cost recovery of pharmaceudcals at the secondary
level. These issues would be addressed under the project (pans. 4.18-4.22).
(a) Policy. Regulation. and Ouality Control. The Government policy for the
pharmaceutical sector is part of its overall sector assistance stategy and is descrnbed
in the Government's policy letter (pan. 2.34 and Annex 2). Responsibility in the
pharmaceutial supplies system is expected to be shared among individual consumers,
the central govermment, and the private sector, whose increased participation in the
pharmaceutical sector is promoted. The Government intends to improve the cost-
effectiveness of the supply system by introducing modem methods of management.
Given the Goverment's limited resources, a limited number of priority products
would be purchased.
However, this policy is not supported by the outdated 1926 Pharmacy Law, which
needs to be revised. Pharmaceutical product and establishment registation do not
adequately ensure product safety. Registraton criteria are unclear or outdated, and
there is insufficient capacity to meet the needs of registration and enforcement. The
updating of the 1926 Pharmacy Law, including the issues of pharmaceutical
registration, inspection, and supenrision and quality control would be addressed under
a parallel project by the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA),
currently under discussion with the Govermnent. Progress in the revision of the 1926
Pharmacy Law would be reviewed at the mid-term review (para. 6.7).
The National Quality Control Laboratory, responsible for testing of pharmaceuticals
prior to distribution, faces a one-year backlog which is expected to increase as the
MOH plans to expand sampling and testing of products. The DANIDA-financed



- 12 -
project would help increase the capacity of the National Quality Control Laboratory to
control the quality of new products applying for registration and of existing drugs
currently being distributed in a more timely and accurate manner. Included in this is
quality monitoring of products at the retail level. Financing would be provided by
DANIDA to (i) help expand the laboratory facilities and upgrade the laboratory
equipment, (ii) train staff in modem laboratory practices, and (iii) improved
supe.Vision of national producers. Progress in strengthening of the National Quality
Control Laboratory would be reviewed at the mid-term review (para. 6.7).
There are two other important policy and regulation issues not covered under the
DANIDA project. The first is the system of price controls on pharmaceutical
products, which may have the perverse effect of discouraging the marketing of
inexpensive products, including generics. The second issue is the need to adapt
legislation and regulations on proposals to allow SILAIS to purchase supplies directly,
increase private sector participation in the distribution process, and introduce flexible
contracts for the purchase of pharmaceutical products. These issues would be
addressed under the project (para. 4.19).
(b) Supply and Distribution issues affect the areas of selection, inventory
management, MIS, procurement, donations of drugs and supplies, infrastructure,
distribution system, and supervision. These issues would be addressed under the
project (para. 4.21). A major cause of the poor performance of the logistics system
is inaccurate forecasting of the quantities required. In the past, purchases of some
categories of products that far exceeded demand led to waste due to deterioration of
the unused products. Recently, the CIPS collected expired and spoiled products
accumulated over several years, with a purchase value of about US$6.3 million which
must now be destroyed. Similarly, other products were under-purchased, leading to
critical stockouts. The problem results from deficient inventory management practices
in local health facilities where pharmaceutcals and medical supplies are not arranged
and coded in a standard way, reception and consumption of products is not recorded
properly, and storage rooms and shelving are inadequate. In general, inventory
management is not based on established maximum and minimum stock levels.
Linked to the above is a deficient MIS which does not provide information to CIPS
on existing stod:s and past consumption at health facilites and results in poor central
inventory management and distribution. Computerized information systems have not
generally been implemented in SILAIS headquarters and hospitals where such systems
would increase efficiency. At CIPS itself, there is no information on costs related to
reception, storage, packing, transport, and supervision. Donations are not handled by
standard procedures and may not be properly registered.
Procurement has improved significantly since the second semester of 1992. The
competitive bidding processes carried out in February and July 1993, with technical
advice from the IDA project preparation team, resulted in an average price drop of 37
percent compared to 1992 and savings of about US$0.5 million. There are, however,
two remaining weaknesses in procurement. The first is the system for pre-



- 13 -
qualification of supplies, which depends too much on the expert opinion of CIPS
management and would not be sustainable in case of management changes therein.
More detailed and objective performance criteria and a better information systemi
would encourage a greater number of qualified suppliers to participate. The second
weakness is that purchase contracts indicate a specific quantity and a single delivery
deadline which, theoretically, requires CIPS to hold a year's supply plus a safety
stock. Flexible contracts would allow CIPS to hold a lower inventory, thus reducing
storage costs, and would provide more flexibility to respond to the changing demand
from health facilities. The feasibility of implementing flexible contracts would be
evaluated under the project (para. 4.19).
There are significan infrastructure weaknesses, especially at the local level where
both volume and quality of warehousing in the country's 850 health facilities is
grossly inadequate. At the CIPS level, excess storage has been eliminated and current
capacity is adequate. Excessive heat caused by poor ventilation shortens the life of
many products. Finally, the CIPS vehicle fleet is in disrepair, resulting in inadequate
operating capacity to respond to the service demand. Partial renewal of the CIPS
vehicle fleet would be financed under the DANIDA project.
Not enough products are distributed directly to health facilities by suppliers. The
MOH intends to change this situation, thus elminuating the direct involvement of the
CIPS in the storage and distribution of these products. The MOH needs to assess
whether one firm is to be given a general storage and distribution conact or whether
each supplier is to make deliveries. Increased private sector distribution would be
supported under the project (para. 4.19).
Although the MOH is making significant efforts, supervision of the pharmaceutical
supply and distribution remains weak. Supervisors are not properly trained and they
have no standard objective instuments to compare practices among different facilities
and stimulate improvements. Supervision would be strengthened under the project
(para. 4.21(c)).
(c)   Rational Use. Physicians have a tendency to prescribe the most expensive
drugs to treat common problems and patients generally associate high cost with high
quality. As a result, inappropriate or "irrational" use of pharmaceuticals appears to
be a major source of waste both in the public and the private sectors. This happens,
for example, when antibiotics are used to treat a common cold although less
expensive alternatives are available. It seems plausible that waste due to the
unnecessary use of pharmaceuticals could exceed US$2 million per year. Under the
project, a study would be undertaken to assess the magnitude of the problem and
initial measures to improve rational use would be taken (para. 4.22).
(d) Einancng. As the quantities of pharmaceuticals delivered to the destinations
served by the CEPS are not directly limited by the budget of the recipient heath
facilities, there is no direct financial incentive for the recipient to assure their rational
use or to select less expensive alternative products. This issue has started to be



- 14 -
addressed through budget decentralization to the SILAIS (para. 4.4), but more
progress needs to be made. Another issue is that, as most drugs are provided free of
charge, doctors have no incentive to select less expensive alternatives. Many patients,
in fact, may attach relatively little value to MOH products, precisely because they are
free to them. To improve cost recovery of pharmaceuticals in hospitals, a pilot
program to test the operation of a private pharmacy in a Managua hospital would be
undertaken under the project and, if successful, the implementation of private
pharmacies would be expanded to the other MOH hospitals (pan. 4.20).
2.24. Deterioration of Physical Facilities. Health facilities at all levels are in generally
poor condition due to years of lack of maintenance. At the primaty level, over 70 percent of
health posts and centers need to be rehabilitated. This has already started with funancing
provided from the FISE. under a US$15 million IDA Credit. As the FISE project does not
have sufficient funds to cover rehabilitation needs at the primary level, additional financing
would be provided under the project (para. 4.16).
2.25. The situation of health facilities is critical at the secondary level. Of the 27 existing
hospitals, eight will need to be reconstructed within 4-S years, and 14 require urgent repairs.
More than half of the basic equipment is in disrepair, including key equipment such as X-ray
machines, anesthesia fans, overhead lamps in operating rooms, boilers and kitchen
equipments. Many hospitals also suffer from defects in their physical plant, plumbing,
cooling and sanitary systems. Not only are there bottlenecks in hospitals which cause
reductions in productivity, but the deteriorated conditions of hospitals pose safety and health
hazards to staff and patients alike (such as radiation, infections, and excessive delays before
patients are treated, which result in increase in treatment cost). Government financing of
maintenance has been insufficient (less than 1 percent of the health budget over the period
1990-93) and while some help has been provided by foreign donors (mainly Finland and
Holland), their support has only been able to prevent the situation from detenorating further.
2.26. In July 1992, the Government of Japan signed a Y980 million (US$9.3 million
equivalent) grant for the replacement of equipment in 17 hospitals and, in May 1993, the
InterAmerican Development Bank (1DB) approved a US$5 million project which includes the
strengthening of hospital management and the development of studies on demand and supply
of health services. While the IDB-financed project may lead to the replacement of some
hospitals and the possible relocation of some facilities, feasibility studies for such investments
may take several years, whereas emergency reconstuction or rehabilitation will need to be
unetaken sooner. The Japanese grant is currendy being disbursed, but it does not cover all
hospitals and does not finance required infrastructure rehabilitation or modification (e.g.,
incease in the size of a room to meet safety requirements required by X-ray equipment, or
upgrading of electric circuitry, which need to be underaken by the Goverment). Moreover,
since the Goverment is already actively pursuing a cost recovery policy (paras. 2.29 and
4.4(e)), it is important to improve the physical facilities of hospitals and the quality of
hospital care so that health services may be sold to INSSBI affiliates and private patients. To
that effect, the Government needs to ensure that the program of essential repair and
refurbishing at the secondary level is properly carried out. IDA's financing would make this
possible (paws. 4.234.24) and would complement the support to be provided by the



- 15 -
Government of Japan and IDB. To minumize increases in recurrent costs, the Government's
strategy is to replace existing defective equipment and not add equipment. However, some
increases in recurrent costs are expected as degradation of equipment over the years resulted
in input savings (e.g., electricity and fuel) and reallocation of staff time. A study of
recurrent cost implications of investment in hospital equipment would be undertaken under
the project (para. 4.24).
2.27. Financing in the Health Sector is characterized by: (a) a relatively high budgetary
allocation to the sector, with no prospects for growth; (b) low efficiency of resource use,
resulting in large part from centralized decisions and lack of accountability; and (c) INSSBI's
fincial weakness. Despite reductions in the later 1980s and early l990s, the 1993 health
budget of US$18 per capita is still higher than that of any other Central American country
except Costa Rica (at US$120). The 1993 budget amounted to US$77 million equivalent and
accounted for 4.4 percent of estimated GDP and 13 percent of central government budget.
Primary health care spending has increased from 22 percent in 1981 to 35 percent in 1992,
while allocations to public hospitals have remained nearly constant, rising slightly from 45
percent in the early 1980s to 50 percent in 1992. These spending proportions between levels
of care are reasonable, although there is still room for improvement. The Government has
declared PHC to be its highest priority (para. 2.33) and the proportion of PHC financing by
the Government is expected to increase, given that an increasing share of the financing of
secondary health care would be assumed by the private sector as a result of the INSSBI
health insurance plan. The proportion of actual expenditures on primary and secondary
health care would be reviewed during the annual reviews (para. 6.6). As social indicators
have not progressed significantly (Box Nicaragua's Epide iological Profile, p. 9), futher
improvements to the health system are required. Also, the population will continue to
increase, putting pressure on the demand for health services.
2.28. A major issue over thf years has been the centralized system of financial decision-
makcng. This has resulted in ineffective spending and lack of accountability of local health
managers. While budgets are designed at the central level, day-to-day management decisions
in the field are made by local health managers who cannot reallocate funds from one line
item to another in response to changing needs or local conditions and have no incentives to
make savings as they are not the "owners" of their resources. Three examples illustrate tbis
point. First, is the lack of maintenance. For many years, health managers have had to
operate facilities for which limited maintenance funds were provided by the central MOH
office. This has resulted in poor quality of service and significant economic losses. Second,
the most cost-effective health interventions are not always chosen. Observations mad,; during
recurrent visits to hospitals have shown a Mnmber of mild cases of diarrhea treated with
intravenous fluids at ten times the cost of oral rehydration salts. A third example of poor
financing decision-making has been dramatically demonstrated in the area of pharmaceutical
products and supplies where both excesses and shortages have occurred as a result of
centralized decision-maldng taking little account of local consumption and needs. These
situations have caused the frustration of health managers at the local level as they do not
have the flexibility to manage properly, and at the central level, as large amounts of
resources are poured into the system with little tangible improvement. This issue would be
addressed under the project through the decentralization of the budget (para. 4.4(a)), the



- 16 -
improvement of the resource allocation system (pvra. 4.4(b)), the implementation of a cost
accounting system (para. 4.4(c)), and the introduction of service provision arrangements with
the SILAIS (para. 4.4(d)).
2.29. Given the country's economic austerity situation, however, additional tax revenues
will not be available, and reallocations from other ministries may be difficult. External aid,
estimated at US$8.2 million in 1994 or about 10 percent of the MOH budget, is not expected
to increase. Thus, efficiency gains need to be sought through: (a) better management of the
health system; (b) increased emphasis on preventive PHC programs and early diagnosis ai. I
treatment which are more cost-effective; (c) improvements in management of drugs and
pharmaceutical supplies; and (d) rehabilitation of health facilities. In addition, cost recovery
efforts should be pursued through the sale of health services to INSSBI affiiates or other
private patients, although the poor should be exempted. During the last two years, there
have been a number of fairly successful cost recovery efforts, principally in hospitals. Many
hospitals generate between S and 10 percent of total budgetary resources from user fees on
service such as X-rays and laboratory exams. Considering that previously health services
had been completely free, this is a good first step, but more efforts need to be done. Over
the project life and assuming a 50 percent implementation success rate, overall cost recovery
by the MOH is expected to reach about US$14 million (Section VII), which would represent
18 percent of the total MOH budget. Hospitals are free to set prices and to maintain any
revenue received from the sale of services. In addition to the central government allocation,
municipal governments have been given an increasing degree of autonomy to generate
revenues from a number of taxes and user fees for public services such as water and
electricity. Although spending of these revenues varies between municipalities, there is some
evidence that an increasing share of these revenues is used to finance activities or
investnents in health centers. In the municipality of Boaco, for example, the central
government allocation to the municipality amounts to only US$200 per month while the
municipality generates approximately US$20,000 monthly through the two revenue
mechanisms cited above. The municipality is free to use the money it raises to finance any
activity, and in the case of Beaco, upon the request of the SILAIS Director, it fnanced a
cold storage room for vaccines.
2.30. In addition, the Govermment would strengthen its cost recovery efforts through the
sale of health services to INSSBI affiliates (paras. 2.32 and 4.25 and Annex 12). Thus,
under the project, an increasing proportion of health services in Nicaragua would be financed
by the private sector, as a result of the health insurance program to be introduced by INSSBI
(para. 4.25). The program would be financed priately through employers' and employees'
contrbutions. The MOH would enter into an agreement with INSSBI which would purchase
from the MOH and private clinics a package of health services for its affiliates that would
include the basic health package (para. 2.18), complemented by a number of more
discretionary clinical services such as some surgical procedures and drugs beyond the basic
health package. The inclusion of these additional services would be decided in function of
their cost-effectiveness.
2.31. INSSBI is fragile financially, with the actuarial deficit in 1991 estimated at US$20
million. Several reasons explain INSSBI's problems: (a) as life expecancy has increased



- 17 -
over the years, benefits have increased more than contributions; (b) the minimum number of
years required to be eligible for old-age pension and handicap benefits was reduced by the
previous Government; (c) the number of welfare benefits to be provided by INSSBI was
increased without matching contributions; (d) the hyperinflation of the late 1980s has
contributed to decapitalize the fund; and (e) INSSBI has a weak administrative capacity to
collect contributions, which has resulted in arrears of 40 percent.
.32. To address the above problems, INSSBI has taken a number of initiatives to
modernize the institution by: (a) starting to reorganize its administrative strucmtre; and (b)
preparing the outline of a reformed health inrance model whereby health services would be
purchased from the MOH and the private sector, and quality of benefits and coverage would
be improved. It also intends to reform the pension fund and is contemplating the
introduction of a workmen's compensation program. However, INSSBI lacks technical
capacity to undertake the proposd reforms. Under the project, technical assistance would be
provided to help INSSBI design and implement health insurance reform and a workmen's
compensation program and evaluate its pension fund (paras. 4.254.27).
D. Government Sectoral Strat
2.33. A high priority of the development agenda of the Government is to improve the
effectiveness, efficiency, and quality of health services rendered, particularly to the poor, and
reduce inequities in access to basic health care, especially when these inequities are related to
the population's socio-economic level or geographic location. The Government intends to
increase efficiency in the use of existing resources, provide incentives for cost savings by
delegating more decisions on resource allocation to local levels, and stimulate the increased
participation of the private sector in the financing and delivery of health services. The
Govermnent is comnmitted to protect the health sector from budget cuts or if cuts become
essential, then to ensure that the health sector would be relatively less affected than other
sectors; and that PHC services, which are the MOH's highest priorty, would not be reduced.
Since total real public health spending cannot be increased because of the country's tight
fiscal situation, savings from efficiency measures and wider cost recovery will allow the
Government to maintain, and increase coverage if r"issible, without adding pressure on
budgetary resources. INSSBI affiliates as well as patients using private rooms would be
charged the full cost of services. Other patients would be required to make small
copayments, but the poor (below a certain level of income) would be exempted (poor and
non-poor are screened in hospitals by social workers based on income level and place of
residence). The Government will focus its efforts on health care for the country's most
vulnerable groups.
2.34. The Govermment intends to iplement its strategy by: (a) decentralizing health
services; (b) implementing a redefined model of primary health care; (c) strengthening the
supply and distribution of pharmaceutical products; (d) rehabilitating health facilities; and (e)
strengthening cost recovery. These objectives are set out in a health policy letter, wi ich also
includes a detailed strategy for the pharmaceutical sector (Annex 2).



- 18 -
(a)   Decentralizing Health Services. The MOH will continue the process of
administrative and financial decentralization that began in 1991 when health services
were organized in SILAIS. MOH's new role will focus on formulating policies and
monitoring and supervising program implementation by the SILAIS. The budget will
be decentralized; the resource allocation system will be improved to distribute funds
to the SILAIS in a more equitable and efficient manner; and a cost accounting system
will be introduced. The MOH central office will enter into management contracts
with the SILAIS to allocate resources to the SILAIS based on agreed annual
operations programs, including specific targets in terms of delivery of services and
results for each SILAIS. Performance monitoring indicators will be established, and
the SILAIS will be evaluated and rewarded based on their success or failure in
improving productivity in services delivery and health outcomes. The MOH will
review its organization and functions so that it can improve its administrative,
budgeting, and monitoring capacity to operate in a decentralized manner and provide
technical assistance to the SILAIS as required. The Government will review progress
in the implementation of its cost recovery policy and will assess the need to improve
equity and efficiency. In parallel with the above efforts, the Government would
improve the management of human resources, provide training to MOH managers and
staff, and strengthen its MIS so that the new decentralization system can be properly
implemented.
(b)   Implementing a Redefined Primary Health Care Model. The Government has
revised its PHC model to improve quality and efficiency of services provided. The
Government will provide a basic package of cost-effective health interventions,
including family planning services. The new model focuses on preventive health
measures, delegation of simple health tasks to less specialized personnel (nurses and
auxiliary nurses), and integration of programs. The Government promotes the idea
that each person has an important role to play in caring for his/her own health and
should be actively involved in health promotion. Programs will be managed at the
local level and will be integrated. Several complementary services will be provided
during the same appointment to save time for health personnel and patients alike. The
Government will strongly promote family planning as an integral part of the PHC
model, by making modern contraceptives widely available and improving the quality
of outreach services and information, education, and communication (IEC) activities.
The Government will take measures to recruit additional nurses, redistribute the MOH
staff more adequately between facilities, and provide incentives to increase the
proportion of doctors working in rural areas;
(c)   StrenMthening Supply and Distribution of Pharmaceutical Products. Given that
the Government's fiscal resources are limited, the pharmaceutical budget will be used
to acquire only those priority products for which an adequate supply can be purchased
with available funds. As the operating and financing role of the central government
must be limited to the priority tasks that cannot be satisfactorily undertaken by other
entities, responsibility in the pharmaceutical supply system will be shared among
individual consumers, the private sector, and the central government. The
Government recognizes that the private sector can provide many services more



- 19 -
efficiently than the public sector and thus, where feasible, the MOH will use or
promote the use of the private sector to provide services, including the distribution of
selected medica supplies to public sector health facilities. The Government
recognizes the need to improve the cost-effectiveness of the medical supplies system.
To that effect, the MOH will take measures to: (i) improve quality control and
update pharmaceutical regulations; (ii) improve supply and distribution of drugs and
supplies by increasing efficiency of management systems and supporting them by an
MIS providing indicators of cost-effectiveness; (iii) promote rational use of drugs; and
(iv) strengthen cost recovery when patients have the ability to pay;
(d)   Rehabilitating Health Facilities. The Government has already started to
rehabilitate health facilities, the maintenance of which has been neglected for many
years. At the primary level, the MOH efforts will be complemented by the FISE
program to rehabilitate health centers and posts. The physical improvements, together
with other reforms such as the improvement of pharmaceutical supply, will help
reduce the proportion of patients bypassing the primary level and seeking care directly
in hospitals. Rehabilitation will also be undertaken at the secondary level where
hospitals are in critical disrepair, creating delays in service provision and causing
safety problems. Priority will be given to the replacement of defective equipment
rather than the construction of additional new hospitals, which may not be sustainable
given the county's limited fisal resources. Rehabilitation of hospitals will improve
quality of service and allow cost recovery measures to be strengthened (paras. 2.29-
2.30). To ensure continuity of operations, a proper maintenance system will be
inutuced; and
(e) Strenfthening Cost Recovery. The MOH will significantly increase cost
recovery by billing hospital services to INSSBI affriliates, charging user fees to
patients in private rooms, and requiring co-payments for selected services from
patients not affiliated with INSSBI. About US$13.8 million are expected annually
from user fees (see table after para. 7.5). A basic package of PHC services will
condnue to remain free. INSSBI has started to reform its health insurance system.
The new system will provide its affiiates with a package of health services of better
quality than those received free of charge from the MOH. INSSBI will purchase
services from the MOH or from the private sector, which will promote competition
between the public and private sectors. Larger membership in the INSSBI health
insurance scheme will be promoted, in line with the strengthening of INSSBI's
institutional capacity and the growth of the formal sector of the economy.
m. LESSONS LEARNED FROM EXPERIENCE, COORDINATION WITH OTHER
DONORS, AND IDA STRATEGY
A. Lessons Learned from Experience
3.1.  The proposed project is the first IDA-supported health sector project in Nicaragua.
This review of experience and lessons leared therefore draws lessons from relevant Bank



-20 -
group projects in other countries, similar projects undertaken by other donors in Nicaragua
and elsewhere, and IDA projects in Nicaragua in other sectors.
3.2.  The most frequently encountered problems include uncertain Government
commitment, lack of cooperation among Government institutions, weak implementation
capacity, uneasy fit of the project implementation unit within the implementing agency's
organization, and the lack of provisions for attracting and maintaining qualified staff in
hardship or remote areas. Other lessons are related to overly complex and rigid designs,
lack of adequate monitoring and evaluation indicators, and problems of project sustainability.
3.3. Goverment Commitment, National Inter-Agency Coordination, and
Implementation Capacity. Numerous projects have experienced problems in
implementation because of lack of commitment by the Government, insufficient capacity in
the ministries, or both. For the proposed project, the project life would be limited to three
and a bhlf years so that project implementation would cover the rest of the term of the
present Government which is fully committed to the project. The lack of a policy
framework, which has plagued the sector in the past, has now been remedied. A health care
policy, including the reform of the health sector, has been approved by the Social Cabinet
and is presented in a policy letter (para. 2.34 and Annex 2). The Government has underlined
the importance of its social sector policy, including health, which it sees as an essential
complement to its economic adjustment program. In its policy letter, the Govermment
undertakes as a minimum to maintain the share of government revenues currently allocated to
the health sector. The implementing agencies, MOH and INSSBI, have a clear
understanding of current problems and constraints and have been active partners in the
analysis of organizational and managerial problems and in the identification of solutions.
Furthermore, the proposed reform of the health sector in Nicaragua has been presented by
the Government to the population in a number of seminars and has received broad support
across various groups of the political spectrum. Resistance comes principally from the press,
which highlights the failures of the present health delivery system (lack of drugs, poor
condition of hospitals, etc.), but is reluctant to embrace the introduction of new schemes such
as cost recovery systems or larger participation of the private sector. There is currently
limited resistance from entrenched interest groups such as doctors, but it could potentially
increase as the reform is implemented. To build consensur, the Government has been
undertaking regular public relations efforts and has taken into consideration the needs of
these inerest groups in the design of the reforms. For example, the MOH has started to hire
more doctors by hours of service, usually less than the nonnal eight hours of MOH
employees. This arrangement provides doctors with more time to carry out their private
practice, yet allows them to remain in touch with the public sector. It also provides savings
to the MOH, which no longer has to pay their social benefits, and reduces the number of
full-time doctors on the payroll while improving the nurse:doctor ratio. Lastly, in 1993 the
MOH created a Project Preparation Unit that has coordinated several working groups and
managed consultants during project preparation. This unit would be transformed into a
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) (para. 4.28 and Annex 17) that would coordinate, monitor
..., cvahmt+ ;fproje impemeenttion effectively.



- 21 -
3.4.  Flexibiit and Simple Desi. Successful projects have been marked by flexibility
in design by instituting pilot studies and continuing preparation of country-wide
implementation strategies during the first one or two years of the project period, later
incorporating and applying test results. Another characteristic of such projects is simplicity
and clarity in design. The proposed project focuses on the most immediate needs, both in
analytical work for policy and institudonal reforms and in the investment requirements. It
would be implemented in a phased fashion which would allow the MOH to build up
institutional capacity and demonstrate results in the initial phase before implementng a
broader reform. A lesson learned from other health reform projects (e.g., Indonesia and
Korea) is that replication of findings from tests is more a matter of tansferring management
and design principles, rather than a wholesale adoption of "model" programs or
interventions. Although maximum simplicity in design is inherently difficult in projects
involving substantial reforms of a social program such as this one, the proposed project
design introduces transparency by making the objectives of each component as independent,
measurable, and monitorable as possible and by establishing explicit timetables for key
actions. The project would include significant technical assistance from experts with
practical experience in the implementaton of proposed reforms and investments in other
countries of Latin America.
3.5. Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators. Past projects have suffered from the lack of
explicit measurable progress and end-result indicators. The problem is especially difficult in
the social sectors where data collection is poor or non-existent and concrete indicators are
often not available, which is the case of Nicaragua. To remedy that situation, IDA is
currently assisting the Government to conduct a Living Standards Measurement Survey
(LSMS), which will provide statistics on consumption of health services. In addition, the
proposed project would include a number of baseline and tracer studies, notably in the
phannaceutical sector, which would track improvement in sector management and monitor
project impact. Progress, implementation, and impact indicators have been defined and will
be monitored throughout project implementation. Indicators would also be used to monitor
the effects of PHC services on the health conditions of local areas (para. 4.11 and Annex
20). Besides providing a powerful tool for sector management, these monitoring efforts wiill
help lay the groundwork for future policy actions and health investments.
3.6. Staff Mix and Assignment in Remote Areas. Health projects have faced problems
of inadequate staff mix, particularly scarcity of nurses in relation to physicians. Redressing
the imbalances in the staff mix takes a long time, since it requires structural changes in
salary scales often beyond the means of governments and a better dialogue with universities
which in Nicaragua, as in Central America in general, have an autonomous status and
budget. To help address this issue, constructive talks have been held between the MOH and
the National University during the last year to reduce the number of physicians trained (para.
2.17). Another problem tor developing and developed countries alike is the resistance by
health staff to move and to remain in hardship or remote areas. This is being addressed by
tme MOH through the provision of hardship bonmses. In the context of this project, these
issues would be addressed through stdies on manpower needed for health services and staff
incentives (para. 4.5). The Government has already started to use alternative providers
(through contracts with private doctors) to deliver health services in areas now not covered



- 22 -
with good health services for lack of various types of health staff. The recommendations
made by these studies, as well as progress in the use of alternative providers by the
Govement, would be reviewed during the mid-term review (para. 6.7) and the resulting
agreed action plan would be implemented by the Government thereafter.
3.7.  Adequate Supervison. The need for close supervision, especially in the early years
of a project, is well acknowledged by IDA. The proposed project would begin with a launch
seminar upon effectiveness and include 25 staff weeks of supervision per year, annual
reviews and a mid-term Government-IDA review, to assess progress in policy reforms and
their implementation (paras. 6.5-6.7 and Annex 22). Besides IDA supervision, a PCU would
be responsible for day-to-day follow-up of project activities, monitoring and evaluation, and
production of anmnal reports on project implementation using performance monitoring
indicators (para. 4.28 and Annex 20).
3.8.  ProJect Sustalabillty. Several Bank group project evaluation reports noted that the
inability of governments to continue fmancing recurent costs limited the effect of projects to
the extent of their durations. This project differs from many other health projects financed
by IDA or by other donors that usually require substantial increases in Government
expenditures. Expansion of services and improvements in quality would be accompanied by
reforms of the financing system which are intended to rationalize expenditures and improve
effciency in the MOH health services while finding alternative sources of financing through
the introduction of user fees in health facilities (para. 4.4(e)) and the study of greater private
sector provision of bealth care through technical assistance to INSSBI (para. 4.25 and Annex
12). An annual incremental recurrent cost of 1.6 percent of the estimated MOH budget in
1993 prices in the last year of the project (para. 5.6) would not be an excessive burden on
the MOH annual budget in subsequent years. Moreover, this additional cost should be amply
offset by the adoption of altemative financing mechanisms, the participation of private sector
providers, and rationalization of expenditures within MOH services. The level of savings
could be significant and would range between US$9.9 million and US$26.3 million per year
(low and high scenario, respectively), which represents 8 to 34 percent of the estimated
MOH budget (see Project Economic Benefits, paras. 7.2-7.7).
B. Coordination With Other Donors
3.9. Several donor agencies have been involved in the coordination of assistance programs
at the project preparation or initiating stage. USAID, Sweden, and Holland have approved
projects to finance 12 of the 19 SILAIS to help improve their management capacity and
support a number of priority PHC programs (Annex 21). The same PHC model would be
implemented at the national level in all 19 SILAIS (para. 4.11). IDB is implementing a
project to: (a) help increase MOH's investment planning capacity; (b) strengthen hospital
management; (c) study alternative sources of fiancing; and (d) develop studies on supply
and demand of health services as well as feasibility studies that would provide a pipeline of
health subprojects for financing. Recently, the Government of Japan has approved US$9.3
million equivalent financing for hospital equipment (para. 2.27). Given the number of
donors in the sector, it is important to ensure donor coordination.



- 23 -
3.10. The flrst element of coordination has been at the project design stage. During project
preparation, IDA and other donors held regular working meetings with the Government to
ensure that: (a) all projects would be designed to support the Government's overall strategy
for the sector; (b) there would be no overlap between areas of support; and (c)
implementation mechanisms and monitoring indicators would be as similar as possible,
especially in the area of support to primary health care. The MOH's Office of External
Cooperation has been crucial in coordination during project preparation.
3.11. The second element of coordination will be the coordination between the SILAIS and
the central office of the MOH by the Secretary General's office. A third element of
coordination would be the inclusion of donors' assistance (IDA, USAID, Sweden, Holland,
and Norway) in the national health budget before allocation of funds to the SILAIS so as to
avoid inequities between SILAIS. A fourth element would be the establishment by the MOH
of a policy regarding external donations of drugs, which in the past have caused significant
distortions in the system (para. 4.19). Finally, during project implementation and
supervision, there would be regular meetings between IDA, other donors, and the
Government to exchange experience, avoid overlaps, and ensure efficiency of project
implementation.
C. IDA Strategy and Role
3.12. The IDA country assistance strategy is to: (a) support major policy and institutional
reforms; (b) support poverty alleviation efforts; (c) help rebuild the institutions; (d) address
rehabilitation needs in key sectors; and (e) support efficient and effective use of external
resources. This strategy is being implemented through an IDA Credit program for the
FY92-96 period, comprising structural adjustment operations and sectoral lending operations
combining rehabilitation needs, institutional strengthening and policy reform in the social,
infrastructure, agriculture, and environment sectors. The strategy will also require extensive
economic and sector work to fill the gap in IDA's knowledge of Nicaragua after seven years
of hiatus in operations. A critical component of the strategy will be aid coordination,
principally through the leadership of the Consultative Group. Aid coordination would focus
on: (a) obtaining co-fnancing for IDA credits; (b) coordinating support with the multilateral
and bilateral agencies to ensure the efficiency of aid flow; and (c) helping organize and
orient needed technical assistance to slipport the Government's adjustment efforts. To
enhance these undertakings, a Resident Mission was established in Nicaragua in early 1992.
3.13. Through its economic and sector work, IDA has been actively involved in supporting
the Government to develop a coherent social sector policy encompassing safety net and broad
sector reform programs to increase the efficiency, effectiveness, and equity of social
services, with particular attention to improving the quality and efficiency of primary health,
primary education, and nutrition services provision. This sector work was started in 1991 in
close coordination with other donors and the Government. The fnal report, "Nicaragua
Social Sector - Issues and Recommendations" (Report No. 10671-NI, February 3, 1993) is
being used by the Government to define an overall poverty alleviation policy framework and
sectoral strategies, particularly for the health and education sectors. A US$10 million Credit
to support FISE, approved by the Board in November 1992, is currently under



- 24 -
implementation. PISE finances, inter alia, social infrasucture subprojects (such as primary
schools, health posts, water, and basic sanitation) and is helping the Government sustain its
povert alleviaton efforts and maintain social cohesion during the penod of economic
adjustment, until line ministries strengthen their institutional capacities and complete policy
reform progrms. In the context of the FISE project, the Govenmuent's social sector policy
was presented in a policy letter dated October 8, 1992. More detailed sectoral plans are
currenlly under prepaation and their presentation to IDA is one of the requirements under
the FISE project. For the health sector in particular, a policy letter is presented in Annex 2.
In 1992, IDA's assistance was requested by the Government for developing this proposed
health sector reform operation, and more recently the Government asked IDA to support an
education project. A project in the water sector is also part of IDA's program for
Niaau. Given the imporace of clean water to improve hygiene and reduce infant
mortalt, a water sector project would complement well the proposed health sector reform
project.
3.14. The proposed project, the first IDA Credit operation in the health sector in
Nicara, is in line with the overall country assistance strategy regarding social sector
reform within a fiscal policy that needs to be tightly managed. It complements IDA's
Economic Recovery Credit as well as the short-term poverty alleviation efforts supported
under the FISE Credit. The project would furter encourage the Government to move ahead
with its health reform progam through planning and gadual implementation of crucial
policies and instutional reforms in the delivery of primary and secondary health care
servies. The project would strengte institutional capacity and lay the framework for
futher reforms of the bealth sector that could be supported through future operations
pursig similar ficial and quality objectives. Following up the social sector analysis
completed in early 1993 (pan. 3.13), the Government requested IDA to play a leading role
in assistimg Nicargua design and implement its health sector reform program. The
Govenmet valued the Bank Group's experience with other Latin American counties such
as Chile and Costa Rica, which have receny been undertaking successful reforms in the
helth sector. The Govement expected that experence with those reforms could be
usefully adated, with IDA's assistance, to the Nicaraguan context. As Chairman of the
Consultative Group Meeting, IDA has been istrumental in mobilizing donor financing for
the health sector reform. IDA's presene in the sector would facilitate the coordination of
donor activities by providing a policy framework for health sector investments.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.1.  The objective of the project is to eace the country's health status by supporting the
implementation of the Governmet's new strategy for the health sector. In particular, the
project would aim to: (a) improve the instiutional capacity and management systems of
MOH by decenrlizi  services and fiancial resources to the SILAIS, and intoducing
performance contacts and monitoring indicators, new administrative and accounting systems,
evised budgins mchnisms, and se d  MIS; (b) increase the quality of service



- 25 -
delivery by supporting the implementation of a redefined model of PHC responsive to local
epidemiological conditions, with special emphasis on preventive care and family planning,
improving procurement, warehousing and distnbution of drugs, rehabilitating and maintaining
facilities and equipment, and improving staff productivity; and (c) strengthen the fmancing of
the sector by increasing cost recovery at the secondary level.
B. Description of Components
4.2.  The following sections describe the project components including the detailed
implementation strategy, activities, and fnancing requirements. The sector issues to be
addressed by these project activities as well as the corresponding Government strategy and
policies are presented in Chapter II. A Project Action Plan (Annex 18) summarizes the
timing of key project activities. The project would be implemented nationwide, except for
the PHC component which would be limited to seven of the 19 SILAS (para. 4.11); in the
other 12 SILAIS, other donors would support the same redefined PHC model. The project
would consist of the following components: (a) institutional strengthening of MOH at both
cetral and regional levels; (b) strengthening of PHC, with an emphasis on maternal and
child health care and family planning, through the implementation of a redefined primary
health care model; (c) development of an efficient pharmaceutical supply system; (d)
rehabilitation and maintenance of hospitals and other health facilities; (e) technical assistance
to INSSBI; and (f) project administration.
Component 1: Institutonal Strengthening of MOH
(US$2.6 million or 12.9 percent of total cost including contingencies)
4.3. The MOH responsibilities would focus on normative and supervisory finctions.
Service delivery finctions would be delegated fully to the SILAIS, which are closer to the
users. Specifically, the MOH central office would: (a) concentrate on its responsibility to
formulate national health policies, strategies, programs and standards for the purpose of
improving the access of Nicaraguan citizens to health care and ensuring efficient use of
resources; (b) ensure a comprehensive and harmonious development of the Nicaraguan health
system; and (c) enhance its supervision and evaluation funcdons and improve systematically
its strategies, programs, and standards. Since the MOH central office would no longer
provide health services, a conflict of interest (i.e., responsibility for both oversight and
delivery of services) that has existed since the beginning of the MOH's establishment would
be removed. The decentralization process would be undertaken in stages so that the
instituional capacity of the central MOH office and of the SILAIS would be gradually
strengthened to accompany the process. Reforms to be introduced have been designed as
simply as possible and would lay the basis for possible introduction of more comnprehensive
reforms later. An additional measure to limit the risks associated with extensive policy and
institutional changes would be the use of pilot schemes when appropriate (para. 4.4(b)). The
project would support the decentralization process through four subcomponents: (a)
delegation of authority to the SILAIS; (b) human resources development; (c) instiution of a
management information system; and (d) training of managers and other activities.



- 26 -
4.4. Subcomponent A: Delegation of Authority to the SILAIS (US$0.7 million). The
project would provide technical assistance in the amount of US$700,000 to help the MOH
delegate service delivery functions to all SILAIS. The delegation of these fumntions is
proposed to occur through: (a) decentralization of budget allocations; (b) improvement of the
resource allocation system; (c) introduction of a cost accounting system; (d) service provision
arrangements with the SILAIS; and (e) improvement of its cost recovery system.
(a) _ecentralization of Budget
(i)   The first element of the decentralization process would consist of
allowing all SILAIS to execute directly a large proportion of the health sector
budget. This would promote a more efficient system of investment and
expenditures of health resources as the SILAIS can link them better than the
central MOH office with the needs of the population which vary according to
geographical area and epidemiological profile. Under this scheme, specific
line items would be transferred to the SILAIS who would spend the funds
themselves. This process has already started and since August 1993, 20
percent of the MOH budget is being directly executed by the SILAIS. The
line items covered include paper and other office supplies, printng,
maintenance, food, local travel, fuel, advertising and communication, and
limited amounts of pharmaceutical products. This would leave basically two
categories of expenses not yet decentralized: pharmaceutical and medical
supplies (currently 16 percent of the budget) and human resources (currently
64 percent);
(ii)   Further decentlization of the budget for pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies is cont-mplated as follows. Because of the economies of scale
involved, most drugs and pharmaceutical supplies would continue to be
procured centally. However, motivation for more cost-effective consumpton
would be increased as each health facility would be assigned a budget which it
would use to "buy" pharmaceuticals and medical supplies from the CIPS. This
would motivate local managers to select the mix of products that is most
appropriate to their needs, within a financial ceiling. As a further incentive to
ensure efficiency in the procurement process of the CIPS, local managers
would be authorized to procure limited quantities of products which are out of
stock at the CIPS, provided, however, that the SILAIS can obtain prices and
delivery dates that are as good or better than what they can get by purchasing
through the CIPS;
(iii) The ultimate goal of the MOH is that the SILAIS be able to hire and
fire their staff. This will require legal changes that are expected to be made in
1994. During Year 1 of the project, salaries wouId continue to be processed
centrally. During this period, the SILAIS would receive more flexibility in
bandling human resources as they would propose candidates for recruitment
and would be authorized to: [a] define the skills mix within their allotted
budget, and [b] link salary incentives to productivity increases, within a
centrally-defined salary scale. Under the project, technical assistance would
be provided to review the legal framework for human resources management



- 27 -
and propose changes that may be necessary in the context of the
decentralization reform (para. 4.5 and Annex 5). Based upon the results of
that review, broader authority would be given to the SILAIS for hiring and
firing of staff during Years 2 and 3 of the project. During negotiations.
agreement was reached that a review of budget d,centraliaton b the
Government would be completed no later than March 31. 1995 to: {i) anahze
strengths and weaknesses of its implementation; (ii) assess whether the pace of
budget decentralization is adeauare consideing the SILAIS capacity: and MiiD
recommend improvements to the system, Based on this assessmwnt and the
progress made in the iLmprovement of human resources administration, an
action plan would be agreed upon bv April 3a0 1995 comprising modalities and
tminf of decentralization of man resources: implementation of the acdon
glan would commence no later than My 31. 1995 (para. 8. l(a)). Should it be
decided, as a result of this review, to decentralize human resources, the
percentage of the MOH budget decentralized would increase to about 85
percent; and
(iv)  Large investments in fixed assets (e.g., major rehabilitation of
hospitals) would be proposed by the SILAIS but fmanced centally to avoid
unnecessary duplication in equipment or the introduction of excessively
sophisticated equipment. However, the SILATS would have the authority to
undertake small investments in fixed assets (such as for repairs);
(b)   I=Mrovement of Resource Allocation System. The MOH has already made
significant progress in the 1993 budget by allocating resources to the SILAIS on the
basis of physical criteria (such as size of facilities, number of beds, number of
vehicles, fuel requirements, etc.). The projec. would help introduce funther
improvements in budget allocation systems by providing technical assistance to: (i)
design a system to allocate resources to all the SILAIS on a population per capita
basis with corrective factors to distribute resources between SILAIS in a more
equitable and efficient manner ("corrected per capita resource allocation system")
using criteria such as differentials between SILAIS in the per capita costs of
delivering the same primary care services, poverty, proportion of rural and urban
population, epidemiological profile, cost recovery efforts, proportion of preventive
health care, etc. There would be strong incentives for cost recovery: (i) health
facilities would be allowed to keep 100 percent of user fees; and (ii) they would be
allowed to use them for rehabilitation and maintenance, purchase of drugs and
supplies, and salary bonuses. Duing negotiations. agreement was reached that the
Govemment would present a draft resource allocation svstem on a corrected per
Cta basis no later than &pterber 30 1994 for review by IDA and would initiate
implementation on a pilot basis. satisfactora to IDA. in at least five SELAIS no later
than Januarv 1. 1995 (para. 8.1(b)). A further improvement would be the
intoduction of a system of resource allocation on the basis of the cost of delivering
health services both at the primary and secondary health care levels. In practice, this
requires the prior introduction and implementation of proper management information
and cost accounting systems, the training of administrative staff to operate these
systems, and registration of the population serviced by each SILAIS. During



- 28 -
negotiations. agreement was reached that the Government would: fi) undertake a
sadv. to be completed no ater than June 30. 1995. to review the pilot itplementation
Qf corrected pet capita resource aotion system, assess the feasibility of extending
the svstem to all SJL4IS. and assess the feasibilitv of introducing on a pilot basis a
resource acation svstem based on the cost per capita of delivering healtt care
senrces: (ii) review the results of the study with IDA at the mid-tenn review: and (iii)
start implementing an agreed action plan no later than September 1. 1995 (para.
8.1(c)). Terms of reference of this stdy are presented in Annex 5;
(c) Cost Acgounting System. The third element would be the design of a cost
accounting system in the SILAIS headquarters and in hospitals, which would provide
inputs to: (i) improve fmancial management; (ii) improve the setting up of user fees;
and (iii) help set up the resource allocation mechanism. Knowledge of production
costs would enable directors of health facilities to better allocate personnel, supplies,
equipment, and infmstructure, improve quality, and increase productivity. The MOH
has already started to introduce a cost acco"nting system in six large hospitals and
three SILAIS. Under the project, technical assistance would be provided to help
review the implementation of the existing cost accounting system, design, and start
implementing an expanded cost accounting system in a larger number of hospitals and
SILAIS (with support from the IDB). Terms of reference are provided in Annex 5.
During negotiations. agreement was reached that the Govemnment would: (i) review
the exoerience and results of the cost accounting system currentl in use on a limited
basis and discuss with IDA. no later than December 31. 1994. the feasibilitv of
ndng the cost accounting sstem to all hospitals and SILAS: and (ii) start
imoletnenting. no later than Februarv 1. 1995. an action plan. satisfactory to IDA. of
vg eee measre_s (pam. 8. 1(d));
(d)   Service Provision Aanaements with SILAIS. The fourth element of the
decentralization process would be the implementation of anmal service provision
arrangements between the central office of the MOH and the SILAIS. The key
concept guiding this mechanism is to link performance with resource allocation.
Performance would be monitored through a mutually agreed set of indicators,
providing a basis for rewards and penalties. Dung negotiations. agreement was
reached that the MOH would make satisfactory service Drovisfon arrangements with
the SILAIS. which would include compliance with simple key indicators (para. 8. 1(e)).
As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government would have made service
provision arrangements. satisactory to IDA. with at least three SILAIS (para. 8.2(a)).
As a condition of disbursement for any of the project's seven participating SILAIS
under the Primarv Health Care component. individl service provision arrangements
would have been made by the respective SILAIS with the MOH (para. 8.3(a)). The
project would provide technical assistance to improve implementation of service
provision arrangements, including selection of an improved set of key monitoring
indicators, and help assess the system of rewards and penalties. Terms of reference
for p'nposed assistance are provided in Annex 5. During negotiations. agreement
was reached that the Goverunent would review implemenaion of the ongoing service
provision arrangements by September 30. 1994. would review the results with IDA by



- 29 -
October 31. 1994. and would start implementing the imLroved service provision
arrangements in all SILAIS no later than Januarv 1. 1995 (para. 8.1(f)); and
(e)   Cost Recovery. Finally, the project would review progress made by the
Governnent in improving the implementation of its cost recovery policy (pam. 2.33).
This subcomponent would be implemented in close collaboration with IDB. Over the
last two years, the MOH has introduced cost recovery at the secondary health care
level to: (i) increase the financing available for the health sector; (ii) shift part of the
demand from secondary to primary care which is less expensive; (iii) increase equity
by spending part of the funds recovered on PHC services for the poor; and (iv)
stimulate production efficiencies at the secondary level by allowing hospitals to retain
a significant proportion of the revenues collected. In addition to the proposed billing
of hospital services to INSSBI affiliates and to the ongoing charging of user fees to
patients in private rooms, the MOH has also been requiring co-payments for selected
serices from patients not affiliated with INSSBI. The initial experience appears to
have been a successful first step (para. 2.29), but differences in fee structures and
their application may result in possible lack of equity or efficiency. Under the
project, the Government would undertake a study to: (a, assess strengths and
weaknesses of present cost recovery practices in the MOH facilides, principally with
respect to equitable treatment of different income-level groups; (b) review
administrative costs of the system (using a representative sample of secondary health
care facilities), particularly regarding differentiation between poor patients who
receive free care and the non-poor who pay user fees or are insured by the INSSBI;
and (c) make recommendations for improvement. The study would be financed by
IDB and terms of referr ace and selection of consultants would be undertaken in
coordination between the Government, IDA, and the IDB. As discussed in Section
VII, potential annual economic benefits from cost recovery range from US$8.3
million (low scenario) to US$21.7 million (high scenario). During negotiations.
agreement was reached that: (i) terms of reference for a cost recovery study.
satisfactoav to IDA. would be prepared no later than March 31. 1994: (ii) the stuy
would be conducted and results discussed with IDA no later than December 31. 1994:
and (iii) the Government would start implementing the stud's recommendations no
later than Februaav 1. 1995 (para. 8. 1(g)).
4.5. Subcomponent B: Humain Resources Development (US$0.9 million). The project
would provide technical assistance il. the amount of US$300,000 to: (a) complete the
inventory of the MOH personnel in 16 SILAIS, thus complementing the work already done
by the MOH in the three Managua SILAIS; (b) analyze the present job categories, simplify
them, defne staffing structures and numbers for each leve: of facility, and prepare job
descriptions and operational directives; (c) analyze and adapt the salary and incentives
structure, define promotional criteria, and propose improvements that are feasible under the
present budgetary constraints; (d) define a personnel planning system; (e) study the health
labor market in Nicaragua and propose medium- and long-term improvements, including
ways to improve the nurse:doctor ratio; and (f) analyze the legal framework for human
resources management and propose changes that may be necessary in the context of the
decentralization reform. Terms of reference for the review are provided in Annex 5.



- 30-
Management training activities would be developed in response to specific needs of the MOH
and would be fnanced through the human resources development subprojects (paras. 4.6-
4.8). The Government has presented a management training plan for Year 1 of the project,
satisfactory to IDA. During n,gotiations. agreeme,t  was reached that the Government woul
conduct by Setmber 30M 1994., a sty of the health nanpower market in Nicarapua.
jnduinp ways to teMrove the nure.doctor ratio. ander terms of rerence satisfactory to
Md. The reswlts of the st   would be discussed with IDA no later than October 31. 1994.
and the rcommendtons would be implemented beginning Januav 1. 1995 (para. 8.1(h)).
Terms of reference for the study are provided in Annex S.
4.6. As decentralization gradually takes place, new management methods and systems will
be introduced. To implement these methods and systems, the MOH will need technical
assistance for the training of health managers or to finance activities which wil be identified
later as decentralization progresses, such as seminars and media campaigns to explain the
purpose of decentralization and promote achievement reached, undertake changes in
organizational structure, decentralization of funds to the SILAIS, strengthen human resources
management, and implement the MIS. While the menu of activities to be undertaken can be
defined now, the actal demand will vary from SILAIS to SILAIS in function of their
exstg   institutional capacity and perceived needs. Thus, to allocate these trainng and
technical assistance funds (US$0.6 million) for human resources development, a mechanism
would be created that would combine the supply-oriented normative role of the central MOH
office (which would offer to fiance certain types of activities) with demand from the SILAIS
in function of their actual requiements.
4.7.  The procedures, principles, and criteria to fnance human resources development
subprojects are described in Annex 7. Part of the funds (US$150,000) would be set aside to:
(a) train SILAIS management and central MOH staff in subproject preparation; (b) provide
technical assistance to MOH high-level management in organization and management of
decentalized health services; and (c) disseminate project objectives to MOH staff,
municipalities, and other institutions. The SILAIS and individual health facilities, as well as
various units within the central MOH office, would prepare subproject proposals usiDg
standard formats that would be evaluated according to five criteria: (a) consistency with
national priorities; (b) types of medical care for which subprojects are geared (outpatient care
would have a higher priority than inpatient care); (c) development of human resources at the
SILAIS level; (d) expected subproject in,, t; and (e) priority assigned by the SILAIS to the
subproject. The subprojects submitted for tinancing would be sent to the PCU for
presentation evety month to a Review Committee which would analyze, rank, and
recommend approval of the subprojects according to the above criteria on a monthly basis.
The Review Committee would be composed of the Directors of Human Resources of the
Medical Training and Research and Development of Health Services and the Director of the
PCU and, as required, experts in subjects related to the types of subproject proposals (e.g.,
repeetatives from the University or international consultants). Subprojects screened by the
Review Committee would be forwarded to the Minister of Health for final approval.
Disbursements by IDA would be made against 90 percent of the cost of subprojects
approved.



- 31 -
4.8. An important area to be covered is the trmining of SILAIS and central MOH
managers. They would present subproject proposals covering areas of training and number
of and qualifications of staff to be trained. Proposals would be ranked in function of priority
criteria. Types of subprojects to be fmanced would include: (a) organization and
management of health services; (b) resource allocation, accounting and financial
management; and (c) program evaluation. To support the decentlization program, the
project would also finance subprojects to cover: (a) training of central MOH and SILAIS
management in subproject preparation; (b) technical assistance to MOH high-level
management in issues such as organization and management of health services in the context
of decentralized services; and (c) dissemination of project objectives and activities to MOH
staff, municipalities, and other institutions. Subprojects would have a duration of 1 to 12
months and would be contracted with local and regional insututions and consultants. The
size of subprojects would vary between US$10,000 and US$100,000. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that human resources development subproiects costing more than
US$75.00Q and the first three subWrojects. regardless of cost. would require IDA s prior
approval (para. 8.1(i)). Asa condition of disbursement for the Human Resources
Deeopment sucmzinet the Gover-rnment woul-d hav adoptd an- Opertional Manual for
human reyources deopment financing. sadsfactov to IDA (para. 8.3(b)). Subprojects
would be submitted, approved, monitored, and supenrised according to this Operational
Manual and no changes would be made without IDDA's prior approval (para. 6.5).
4.9.  Subcomponent C: MIagement Information System (MIS) (US$1.0 million).
Improvement in the quality and timeliness of sector information systems would be a
prerequisite to the successful implementation of the policy and institutional reforms,
especially budget decentalization, resource allocation, and service provision arrangements.
The project would strengthen the MOH information systems through the development of a
MIS, the provision of computer hardware and software, and staff traing. This
subcomponent would concentrate on support to the central MOH office and would be
implemented in close collaboration with USAID, which is helping develop information
systems and providing computers at the SILAIS level, and IDB which is supporting
improvements in hospital management. All systems would be compatible and would be
linked together.
4.10. The MIS would incorporate human resources, administrative, and financial features to
provide central support lo the MOH decentralization process. The system would consider the
flexibility required by various levels, incluamg the central MOH office, SILAIS
headquarters, and primary and secondary health care facilities. It would include modules on
epidemiology, service production, human resources, financing, budgeting and accounting,
and pharmaceutical inventory. The system would be implemented gradually, in line with:
(a) the institutional capacity of the MOH staff to be strengthened under the managerial
training subcomponent; and (b) the current status of computer technology and
communications in Nicaragua. It would consist of a network between the central office of
the MOH and the SILAIS. The terms of reference for tI-- development of this component
are presented in Annex 5. During nefotiations. agreement was reached that: (i the MOH
woud submit for IDA review termns of reference for the study of the existing MIS. satiufactorav
to IDA. no AMter than April 30. 1994: (ii) recommendations for a new system, action plan.



- 32 -
and timetable for implementation would be discussed and agreed with IDA no later than
D)ecember 31. 1994: and iii) start implementation of an agreed action plan no later than
Februy 1. 1995 (para. 8.1(0)). As a condition of disbursement for computer hardware.
asreement with the Government would have been reached on a detailed action plan for
ihQlementing the new MIS (para. 8.3(c)).
Component 2: Primary Health Care
(US$7.0 million or 34.8 percent of total cost including contingencies)
4.11. Redefined Primary Health Care Model. Under the project, a new PHC model has
been defined where: (a) preventive care is emphasized; and (b) different programs are
integrated at the local level to provide services more efficiently to beneficiaries. The MOH
would continue to put emphasis on eight priority interventions, which are well adapted to the
country's epidemiological profile: acute respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases, maternal
and perinatal mortality, family planning, malnutrition, immuno-preventible diseases,
tuberculosis, and malaria. The detailed redefined PHC model is presented in Annex 6. The
model would be applied nationally by the Government, with support from IDA and other
donors. Under the project, IDA would support PHC in seven of the poorest SILAIS in the
country (Boaco, Carazo, Granada, Masaya, Region Aut6noma Atlantica Norte, Rivas, and
Rio San Juan). This would complement the support provided by USAID, Sweden, and
Holland to the other 12 SILAIS through projects already under execution. The location of
these SILAIS is presented in the map. This component would benefit about 21 percent of the
country's population and 34 percent of the country's territory. A detailed implementation
plan for the PHC component is now under preparation. Progress in the implementation of
the PHC component would be assessed at the mid-term review, using performance
monitoring indicators provided in Annex 20. These indicators would include quantitative
perfonnance indicators (such as percentage of children under-5 with growth-monitoring
checkups, or number of women using family planning methods), quality performance
indicators (such as percentage of health facilities with satisfactory water quality), and
outcome indicators (such as diarrhea mortality rate). These indicators have been defined in
Annex 20. The Government has presented an implementation plan for Primary Health Care,
satisfactory to IDA. The Government wiil use quantified indicators (Annex 20) to monitor
and evaluate the progress in the implementation of the redefined primary health care model
and its impact beyond the project implementation period. Efforts to strengthen the
preventive and community health care actio -s would assist in redirecting a number of patients
to the primary level, help the Government implement an appropriate referral system, and
promote the efficient use of all levels of the health care system.
4.12. To help implement the redefined PHC model and improve service delivery for the
above priority health problems, the project would fimance the following subcomponents: (a)
procurement of essential drugs; (b) training of health services delivery personnel; (c) IEC
activities; and (d) infrastructure and equipment. This component would provide economic
benefits of US$0.5-1.4 million annually (para. 7.5).
4.13. Subcomponenat A: Essential Drugs and Supplies for Priority Interventions
(US$3.2 million). The project would complement the national budget and help the



- 33 -
Government replenish a basic inventory of essential drugs required for priority interventions
such as oral rehydration salts, antibiotics, iron sulfate, folic acid, iodine, and vitamin A.
The financing of drugs and supplies would complement the significant reforms contemplated
under the project to improve the programming, procurement, distribution, and rational use of
drugs (paras. 4.184.20). Drugs to be financed under the project would be selected by the
SILAIS out of a reduced essential drugs list. Drugs would be purchased by the central MOH
office and allocated to the SILAIS in function of medical, physical, and financial criteria,
corrected for equity. As a condition of disbursement for pharmaceutical roducts and
medical suWplies. a reduced essential drugs and medical supplies list. satisfactoiv to IDA.
would have been presented (para. 8.3(d)). Dmgs and supplies would be financed on a
declining basis. Incidence on recurrent costs would be small and sustainability of the
program would not be jeopardized (paras. 5.t-5.7).
4.14. Subcomponent B: Training of Health Services Delivery Personnel (US$1.0
million). The project would support a training program aimed at improving the quality of
service delivery in the SILAIS. The program would focus on medical and paramedical
personnel at both the primary and secondary levels. Training courses and seminars would be
provided and would cover prevention and treatrnent of basic health problems. Once trained,
the staff would be responsible to train health volunteers and community midwives, with a
special emphasis on prevention of disease and early treatment, and early detection of
complications for referrals to higher levels of care. A summary of beneficiaries of the
training program and costs are provided in Annex 6. The project would finance training
modules to be contracted to universities, local training institutes, consultants, or courses
delivered by higher-level MOH personnel. These modules would include instuctors' fees,
educational materials, and limited transport costs. A detailed taining program for health
services delivery personnel has been reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory (Annex 23).
4.15. Subcomponent C: Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) Program
(US$0.8 million). The project would help expand the use of mass media and
communications to promote better health for the population. The JEC program would focus
on priority areas such as prevention and treatment of diarrheal diseases and acute respiratory
infections, prevention of immuno-preventible diseases, family planning, pregnancy and
delivery, infant care, breast feeding, prevention of malnutrition and more appropriate use of
pharmaceuticals, including generic products. To that effect, the project would fiance the
preparation, printing, and distribution of educational pamphlets and posters with short and
clear messages and illustrations, the purchase of radio spots, community meetings, home
visits by MOH personnel and voluntary health workers. The overall IEC planning and
program has been reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory (Annex 23).
4.16. Subcomponent D: Infrastructure and Equipment (US$1.7 million). The project
would finance rehabilitation of health posts and centers and small water and sanitation
subprojects in the seven SILAIS where the PHC component would be implemented (para.
4.11). Subprojects would be in the order of US$4,000-10,000, a range which is on the low
side for FISE, which attempts to finance larger subprojects for reasons of efficiency. The
project would also finance additional equipment required to implement the revised PHC
model. This would include medical equipment (such as scales, scissors, delivery tables,



- 34 -
etc.), office and laboratory equipment and furniture, basic equipment for community
midwives and volunteer health workers, radio equipment to improve referrals, and vehicles.
This would be implemented in close coordination with FISE and would provide some
additional financing for rehabilitation of health facilities at the primary level. Subproject
implementation modalities (subproject preparation, design, supervision, execution of physical
works and disbursement of funds) would be similar to those of FISE, but simpler given the
nature of works to be undertaken (small repairs, repainting, simple electrical connections,
etc.). The first two subprojects would be sent to IDA for prior approval. As a condition of
disbursement for the Infrastructure and Equipmen subcomponentfor PHC facilities, the
MON would have adopted an Operational Manual for PHC infrastructure and equipment
ftnancing. satisfactow to IDA (para. 8.3(e)). Subprojects would be submitted, approved,
monitored, and supervised according to this Operational Manual and no changes would be
made without IDA's prior approval (para. 6.5).
4.17. Subcomponent E: Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.3 million). Thle project
would support monitoring by the MOH of the PHC component. Monitoring would be
undertaken by the MOH Vice Miistry for Health Care Services, who would contract three
local consultants to that effect. They would undertake two supervision visits per year in each
of the health facilities of the seven SILAIS to be financed by IDA, using a Supervision
Manual currently being prepared by the MOH as an instrument to supervise all SILAIS at the
national level. As a condition ofdisbursement for Lhe rmai Health Care co_ne. a
Supervision Manual incorporating monitoring and evaluation indicators. sansfactow to IDA.
woud have been Dresented (para. 8.3(f)). Supervision of subprojects would be conducted
according to an Operational Mamual and no changes would be made without IDDA's prior
approval. In addition, the project would finance two national consultants for two months
every year to undertake the evaluation of the PHC component using process and impact
indicators presented in Annex 20.
Component 3: Pharmaceutical Supply and Distribution System
(US$3.2 million or 15.9 percent of total cost including contingencies)
4.18. This component would be financed by IDA and would be complemented by the
DANIDA project currendy under discussion with the Giovernment. The IDA-financed
component would help the MOH: (a) improve the policy and regulation framework; (b)
improve procurement, supply, and distribution of drugs and medical supplies; (c) improve
fnancing of drugs and supplies; and (d) promote more rational use of drugs. This
component would provide economic benefits of US$1.1-2.8 million anmnally (pan. 7.5).
4.19. Subcomponent A: Policy, Regulation, and Financing (US$0.2 million). The
project would finance two studies. The first would be a study of: (a) the economic and
fiancial impact of existing legislation, including price control legislation, on the marketing
of pharmaceutical products; in particular, the study would identify regulatory constraints that
discourage the importation, distribution, and sale of generic pharmaceuticals in the private
sector; and (b) legal changes required to allow the implementation of new policies to increase
purchases by SILAIS and health facilities, increase private sector distribution, and introduce
flexible quantity and delivery contracts. The second study would help the MOH establish a



- 35 -
policy regarding external donation of drugs. Terms of reference for the studies are provided
in Annex 9. Dur_nn negotiations. agreement was reached that the MOH would comolete two
harmaceIuical policy and regulation studies and discuss their results and reco-mmendaions
with IDA no later than October 31. 1994. and that an action plan. satisfactory to IDA. would
start to be implemented no later than December . 1994 (para. 8.1(k)).
4.20. The project would provide technical assistance in the amount of US$100,000 to help
the MOH: (a) promote the delivery of phannacy services by the private sector; and (b)
design the specifications for operation by the private sector of a pilot pharmacy in a MOH
hospital, help prepare and evaluate bids, contract private pharmacy operator, evaluate the
first six months of operation of the pharmacy using monitoring indicators, and make
proposals for modification and replication in other hospitals. Terms of reference for the
technical assistance are provided in Annex 9. Durink negotiations. agreement was reached
that the MOH would complete the pilot program for the support of pilot private pharmacy
operations in a Managua hospital no later than June 30. 1995. that the recommentions
would be discussed with IDA during the mid-tenn review, and that an action plan.
stfaoia to IDA. would start to be implemented no later than August 1. 1995 (para.
8.1(1)).
4.21. Subcomponent B: Inprovement of Supply and Distribution System (US$2.7
million). The project would:
(a)   Provide technical assistance to help improve inventory management at the
S.ILAIS and central levels. At the SILAIS level (in all health facilities), the project
would help organize phannaceutical and medical supplies in a standard arrangement
according to code numbers; document and destroy expired and spoiled products;
divide supplies at health facilities into two inventories, one, a working inventory
(opened packages considered as having been consumed) and the other, a bulk
inventory (unopened packages); design ptescription slips that provide a record of the
final distribution of pharmaceutical products; design inventory reports and requisitions
pre-printed with the names and codes of products; design a cardex systm which
provides an accurate history of supply flows into and from the bulk inventory;
establish maximum and minimum stock levels for the working and bulk inventories;
and establish a standard methodology to forecast future needs. At the cental level,
the project would strengthen the CIPS MIS so that CIPS may receive up-to-date
informaton on inventories of pharmaceutical supplies and products at the SILAIS
level and in hospitals. In addition, the MIS would provide CIPS managers with
periodic information on the costs related to reception, storage, packing,
transportation, and supervision so that they may devise alternative strategies to
improve performance and cost-effectiveness. This would help notably to develop and
implement selection criteria to identify products that can be cost-effectively distributed
by suppliers and implement contract provisions which specify direct distribution of
additional products directly to health facilities;
(b)   Help renovate and repair storage areas and shelving in all health facilites so
that inventories may be rearranged properly according to code numbers;



- 36 -
(c)   Support the MOH efforts to increase the number of reliable suppliers through
technical assistance to develop and implement a computerized infonnation system to
track orders and monitor supplier performance; and
(d)   Provide technical assistance to help the MOH design and implement
innovative, objective supervision instruments and train supervisors in their use.
4.22. Subcomponent C: Rational Use of Drugs (US$0.3 million). The project would
help the MOH improve the rational use of drugs by financing a study to establish a baseline
level of inefficient drug use and recommend measures to correct these problems. Terms of
reference for the study are provided in Annex 9. During negotiations. agreement was
reached that the MOH would complete the rational dru use study no later than December
31. 1994. that the recommendations would be discussed with IDA no later than Januar 31.
1995. and that an action plan. satisfactorv to IDA. would start to be implemented no later
than March 1. 1995 (para. 8.1(m)). Technical assistance, including support for health
manpower training, would also be provided to help implement the recommended corrective
measures.
Component 4: Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Hospitals and Other Health Facilites
(US$5.3 million or 26.4 percent of total cost including contingencies) - This component
would consist of: (a) rehabilitation of hospitals; and (b) maintenance system for health
facilities.
4.23. Subcomponent A: Rehabilitation of Hospitals (US$5.0 million). To complement
PHC activities supported by IDA and other donors, the project would finance emergency
rehabilitation and repair subprojects to address, at the national level, the physical and
technological deficiencies that prevent hospitals from functioning adequately. The procedures
for financing emergency rehabilitaton subprojects have been designed to allow the allocation
of scarce financial resources to hospitals through a demand-driven mechanism, i.e.,
rehabilitation/investment subprojects would be generated and proposed by the hospitals
through their respective SILAIS. The size of the subcomponent was determined on the basis
of a preliminary survey of hospitals and on the estimation of small and simple rehabilitation
programs that would be highly cost-effective and would complement the support of other
donors. The involvement of the SILAIS and the hospitals in the identification, preparation,
and its participation in the execution of the subprojects is in itself a training for a possible
later decentralization of investment resource allocation and utilization decisions in the health
sector. As a condition of disbursement for rehabilitation of hospitals, the MOH would have
adopted an Operational Manuel. satisfacto,v to IDA (para. 8.3(g)). Subprojects would be
submitted, reviewed, approved, monitored, and supervised according to this Operational
Mamal and no changes would be made without IDA's prior approval (para. 6.5). The
subprojects would be implemented by the central office of the MOH, with support from local
health facilities. Periodic monitoring and review of implementation progress would be
exercised by the PCU, using monitoring indicators presented in Annex 20. The project
would also finance some maintenance of hospitals during the first year.



- 37 -
(a)   Subfroject Selection Criteria. The selection criteria are spelled out in the draft
Operational Manual for emergency rehabilitation of hospitals which has been reviewed
by IDA and found satisfactory (Annex 23). The principal selection criteria to qualify
the subprojects have been agreed with the Government (see Annex 10 for details).
These are differentiated between basic criteria, which are necessary but not sufficient
conditions to qualify, and priority criteria, which would help in the priority allocation
of a set amount of fuids for the immediate rehabilitation needs of these hospitals.
The basic criteria include the following: (i) siubroject types would consist of repair,
replacement, or purchase of equipment and/or vehicles; repair, improvement,
replacement, construction of infrastructure; andtor a mixture of these subprojects; (ii)
subproject costs would not exceed US$150,000 with an implementation period of no
more than 12 months; (iii) subprojects should not generate additional recurrent costs;
in cases where incremental recurrent costs would be generated, certificadon by the
MOH Vice-Minister for Administration that the subproject can count on sufficient
budget for required operation and maintenance would be required; and (iv)
subprojects presented should be in line with the Government investment strategy in
the health sector.
(->b) The Priority Criteria would rank subprojects according to the following
expected benefits: (i) reduction of bottlenecks in medical procedures or hospital
support services; (ii) reduction of patients and personnel risks; (iii) emphasis on
rehabilitation/replacement versus new construction or purchase of new equipment; (iv)
emphasis on maternal and child health care improvement; (v) promotion of
ambulatory care; and (vi) improvements in the handling of medical wastes. The
rankig methodology for these criteria is discussed in detail in Annex 10. Difficulties
in arrivig at exact measurement of these benefits are well recognized. Nonetheless,
an exercise of assigning points to reflect a group of reviewers' perception of the
relative importnce of each of the subprojects presented would minimize the chances
of allocating the project funds to 'favorite hospitals' or "less urgent' subprojects.
The selection criteria for rebabilitation of hospitals and other health facilidtes would be
reassessed during the mid-term review and modified as necessary (pam. 6.7).
(c)   Selection  css. The process of subproject generapon and approval would
involve the hospital directors and staff, the SILAIS Directors, and an Approval
Committee of the MOH as major actors. The Approval Committee would be
composed of the Administrative and Financial Vice-Miister, the Director of
Investments, the Director of Health Services, the Director of External Cooperation,
the Budget and Fiance Director, and the Director of the PCU. Every month, the
central MOH office would request the SILAIS to submit subproject applications for
those areas which they consider of highest priorty. The SILAIS Director, together
with the directors of hospitals in their area of jurisdiction, would review the proposals
and assign priority to those subprojects that would best meet perceived needs of the
population, with the clear understanding of their financial commitment for recurrent
costs for such investments over the long-term. These subproject applications would
be sent to the Investment Department of the MOH for prentation to the Approval
Committee which would review, rank, and recommend the subprojects for approval



- 38 -
according to the priority criteria discussed above. Disbursements would be made by
IDA against 90 percent of the cost of subprojects approved before December 31,
1994. As indicated in the Operational Manual, the first three subprojects and those
costing more than US$100,000 would be sent to IDA for prior approval. As part of
the annual reviews (para. 6.6), the Govermnent would provide IDA with: (i) an
aual report of the physical and financial status of the subprojects fimanced for the
emergency rehabilitation of hospitals; and (ii) every November 30 of each year, an
annual progress report and proposed investment plan for the following calendar year.
4.24. Subcomponent B: Maintenance System for Health Facilities (US$0.3 million). A
maintenance policy for health facilities is now under preparation by the Government. This
conponent would finance two studies that would help design a maintenance system for health
facilities in Nicaragua. The study would: (a) diagnose the present status of health facilities;
(b) determine maintenance needs; and (c) propose a maintenance system adapted to
Nicaragua which would complement the efforts currently supported by Finland and Holland.
Terms of reference for the study are presented in Annex 11. The study would be completed
in about six months and would cost about US$200,000. Given the time required for the
study to be completed, emergency maintenance requirements would be presented as
ubprojects under the emergency rehabilitation of hospitals (para. 4.23) during the first year
of the project. During subsequent years, maintenance costs would be supported by the
Government. The second study would analyze the impact that recently installed equpent
as well as those planned under the Japanese (para. 2.27) and IDA fiacing would have on
recurrent costs. The study would be completed in about six months and would cost about
US$100,000. The Government has presented a health facilities maintenance policy,
satisfactory to IDA. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the MOH would: O
comolete the maintenance and recurrent cost studies, discuss their results and
recommendatons. and agree on an action plan with IDA no later than December 31. 1994:
and (ii) the MOH would starn implementing the action pian no later than March 1. 1995
(pua. 8.1(n)).
Component 5: Technical Assistance to INSSBI
(US$1.0 million or 5 percent of total cost including coningencies)
4.25. Subcomponent A: Health Insurance (US$0.7 million). The project would provie
technical assistance to INSSBI to redesign its health insurance model so that it can provide to
its affiliates a package of quality health services in line with their contributions. The project
would also help strengthen INSSBI's MIS and would provide technical assistance and taining
in the implementation of the new health insurance model and the MIS. Terms of reference
are provided in Annex 12. Progress in implementing the component would be assessed on
the basis of monitoring indicators and would be reviewed with the Government at the mid-
term review, and agreement would be reached on changes to be introduced as a result of the
review. This subcomponent, together with subcomponent B, is expected to provide economic
benefits ranging from US$7.4 million to US$19.6 million (para. 7.5). Durng negotiatons.
agreement was reached that the Government would: (io review the progress in the reorm gf
the health insurance progrm  and its implemenion no later than September 30. 1994: Cii)



- 39-
discuss the results of the review with IDA no later than December 31. 1994 and start
imenting an agreed action plan no later than Februaav 1. 1995 (para. 8. 1(o)).
4.26. Subcomponent B: Workmen's Compensation Program and Pension Fund
(US$0.3 million). The project would provide US$210,000 of technical assistance in the
following areas: (a) establishment by March 1995 of insurance program against work-related
injuries and illness, including the design of technical norms, an accreditation scheme for
providers, a system to limit occupational risk, and incentives to encourage affiliation to the
system; and (b) training over the 1994-96 period of technical specialists to facilitate
implementation of the system. Tenns of reference are provided in Annex 12. Progress in
design of worlanen's compensation program and training of implementation specialists would
be discussed with the Government at the mid-term review (para. 6.7).
4.27. The project would provide US$90,000 of technical assistance to analyze the fmancial
status of the pension system and to make actuarial projections related to the financial
equilibrium of the pension system over the medium-to long-term. Additional support will be
included to evaluate alternative pension systems that may be more efficient and equitable
over the long-term. Terms of reference are provided in Annex 12. Preliminary results of
this analysis would be discussed with the Government at the mid-term review, as well as the
need for possible additional IDA or other donor su-. ort for reform of the pension fund.
4.28. Component 6: Project Administation (US$1.0 million or 5.0 percent of total cost
including contingencies). The PCU would be responsible for technical and financial
management of the project. The PCU would have a Director, appointed by the Minister of
Health, and would report directly to the Secretary General. The Director would coordinate
project implementation within the MOH, with other Government agencies and with IDA.
The PCU Director would be assisted by six higher-level professionals and one senior
secretary. One senior level professional would be responsible for administtion and
procurement and each of the remaining would be in charge of one project component: (a)
institutional s  g   of MOH; (b) primary health care; (c) pharmaceuc  supply and
distribution system; (d) rehabilitation and maitenance of hospitals and other health facilites;
and (e) technical assistance to INSSBI. The PCU would also have the means to contract
specialized consultants as reqired to help support project implementation. The major
functions of the PCU would be to facilitate project implementation by working in close
coordination with the executing agencies, oversee the implementation of the various
components, supervise procurement activides, and coordinate the fnancial flows. The PCU
would provide the Government and IDA with annual progress reports on the project, using
agreed indicators (listed in Annex 20), would produce fiancial reports of expenditures and
reimbursements required by IDA, and would also be responsible for preparing the required
documentation for the amwal and mid-term reviews (paras. 6.6 and 6.7). The PCU terms of
reference and the detailed operational directives related to PCU responsibilities for project
implementation would be contained in a PCU Operational Manual (Annex 17). The
Government has formally established the Project Coordinating Unit and appointed the
Director, satisfactory to IDA. Durng negotiations. agreement was reached that the Project
Coordinting Unit would be maintained with structure and ffctions. and sta(t'ed with



- 40 -
Dersonnel with qualifications and exper.ence. satisactory to IDA until completion of the
poet(Pama. 8.1(p))).
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
5.1.  The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies is estimated at about
US$20.1 million equivalent (net of taxes) of which an estimated US$15.2 million would be
foreign exchange. Investment costs amount to 89 percent of base costs and incremental
recurrent costs amount to 11 percent of base costs. Project costs were estimated at July 1993
price levels and include physical contingencies of five percent for computer hardware,
equipment and supplies, and infrastrcture improvements. Price contingencies were
calculated at 1.2 percent for 1994, 2.4 percent for 1995, 3.2 percent for 1996, and 3.4
percent for 1997 according to IDA's estimated Index of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports.
These rates have been applied to local and foreign costs as well, as regular currency
exchange rate adjustments based upon purchasing power parity would compensate for the
difference between projected US dollar and local inflation rates.
Project Cost Summary
(in US$ millions, net of taxes and duties)
Local   Foreign    Total
- US$ million
stitutional Strengthening of MOH                 0.4       2.0       2.4
Primay Health Care                               1.7       4.8       6.5
Pharmaceutical Supply System                    0.7        2.4       3.1
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Hospitals      1.4       3.4       4.8
Technical Assistance to INSSBI                  0.2        0.7       0.9
Project Administration                          0.8        0.2       1.0
Total Baseline Cost                       5.2       13.5      18.7
Physical Contingencies                    0.1        0.5       0.6
Price Contingencies                       0.2        0.6       0.8
TOTAL COST                                5.5       14.6      20.1
5.2.  Estimated rehabilitation and constuction costs for the MOH health facilities are based
on unit prices derived from current contracts and costs analyses for similar standards of
construction in Managua. Estimated unit costs of medical, odontological and office
equipment are based on prces quoted in recent international competitive bids. Estimates for
technical assistance and studies are based on current rates for local and foreign experts, and
cost estimates for training on current costs or costing standards used by MOH and INSSBI.



- 41 -
B. Finacing Plan
5.3.  The proposed project would be finned as follows:
Loca    Foreign    Total
Government of Nicaragua                  2.1       0.0       2.1
IDA                                      2.9      12.1      15.0
Norway                                   0.5       2.5       3.0
Total                                    5.5      14.6      20.1
5.4. The proposed Credit of US$15.0 million equivalent would finance about 75 percent of
the total project cost, net of taxes and duties. The Credit would fnance about 83 percent of
foreign exchange expenditures and 53 percent of local expenditures. This level of local
expenditure is justified because it would cover mostly small scattered civil works, small
supplies contracts, and expenditures for technical assistance and training, areas in which no
greater benefits would be obtained by contracting these services internationally. The
Goverment contribution would be US$2.1 million. Durng negtiain. agreement was
reached that the Government would: (i) provide the following minimum amounts, as
couterartfuns or the financing of the proect: fal USL].0 million for 1994, fbi US$07
w-gWa iI     _--_ _z1 
milion for 1995: and [ck US$0.4 milion for 1996: and (i) advance from the above amounts.
and not later than the first de of each guarter. amounts sicient to cover estimated
coWunerpaqt & n requirements durink that quarter (para. 8.l(q)).
5.5. Cofinancdng. The Government of Norway, which participated in the pre-appraisal of
the project with IDA, would provide a US$3.0 million equivalent grant for cofiancing the
project with IDA. The Government of Norway intends to appoint IDA the administrator of
the Norwegian funds. Norway will cofmance the PHC component. Once the proportions of
Norway disbursement per project component are confirmed, IDA disbursement percentages
would be adjusted accordingly. Durin negotiantons, an event of default was agreed to which
would allow IDA to suspend disbursements if the Government failed to flfIll all conditions
for effectiveness of the Noiway Grant Agreement. other than those related to the effectiveness
of the IDA Credit Agreement. no later tLhan June 30. .994 (para. 8.4(a)).
C. Incremental Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability
5.6.  During the implemenatio period, the project would add a total of about US$3.6
million to the recurrent expenditures budget of the MOH. Incremental recurrent costs would
be generated by incremental drugs and medical supplies, which would be financed by IDA on
a declining basis. The above mentioned anmnal incremental recurrent costs in the last year of
the project represent 1.6 percent of the estimated MOH budget in 1993 prices, a small
increase that could be easily absorbed by the MOH.



- 42 -
Recurrent Cost Financing
(US$ million)
1994         1995          1996          Total
Total Cost                  1.2           1.2           1.2           3.6
IDA Financing               0.8           0.5           0.3           1.6
Govemment Financing         0.4           0.7           0.9           2.0
5.7. This increase should be amply offset by savings generated by the implementation of a
redefined PHC model, improvements in revenues, and increases in efficiency. Indeed, one
of the main objectives of the proposed project is to strengthen the fmancial position of the
MOH by reducing the cost of procurement of pharmaceutical and medical supplies,
strengthening cost recovery at the secondary level, and rationalizing expenditures.
Furthermore, the project involves structural changes that are expected to have major fmancial
(as well as qualitative) benefits on the health system which should continue well beyond the
project period (paras. 7.2-7.7).
D. Procurement
5.8.  The project would include procurement of civil works, goods and drugs as well as
studies and consultancy services, in accordance with IDA guidelines for procurement (May
1992) and consulting services (August 1981).
5.9. Procurement Arrangements in the PCU. To strengthen the Borrower's
procurement implementation capacity, the PCU would include a specialist to carry out
procurement for the project and supervise procedures in the SILAIS. In addition,
arrangements have been for FISE to provide technical assistance to the MOH at the early
stages of implementation, taking advantage of the experienced gained by PISE's staff in
procurement and disbursements of IDA funds. Funds have also been included in the project
administraion component (para. 4.28) for the contracting of consultants as needs arise during
proect implementation.
5.10. Civil Works. Hospital rehabilitation subprojects would be managed by the SILAIS.
The bulk of civil works contracts in these subprojects would consist of refurbishing of
hospital facilities (e.g., reconstruction or repair of operating rooms, bathrooms, roofs,
kitchens, etc.) in small amounts, with an estimated average cost of US$25,000 per contract.
Therefore, no international competitive bidding (ICB) in works is expected. Civil works
contracts in the different subprojects are expected to total approximately US$4.3 million
equivalent. As much as possible, similar types of subprojects would be bid in packages to
minimize administrative costs and take advantage of contractors' specialization. For
contracts valued at US$25,000 equivalcnt and above, awards would be made on the basis of
local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) and stadard bidding documents, satisfactory to
IDA. For contracts below US$25,000 per contract and not exceeding an aggregate amount
of US$2.1 million equivalent, local shopping procedures requiring at least three price
quotatons would apply. Local shopping is justified because most rehabilitation subprojects



-43 -
would be carried out in scattered places and it is unlikely that large domestic cotactrs
would be interested in bidding for small rehabilitation works.
5.11. Goods. The bulk of goods consists of medical equipment and supplies for hospitals
and other facilities, spare parts, computer and peripheral equipment, software, some
vehicles, and office equipment and supplies for the PCU. To the extent possible, purchases
of similar items of equipment, materials or supplies would be packaged to permit bulk
procurement and to benefit from economies of scales. For procurement of the MIS, the
MOH would use a two-step ICB bidding procedure. About 20 vehicles costing a total of
about US$400,000 would be procured through LIB from a list of foreign manufacturers with
established service facilities in Nicaragua.
5.12. Except for medical equipment, drugs, and vehicles, contracts of goods packaged at a
value of US$150,000 equivalent and above would be awarded following ICB procedures. In
the evaluation of bids obtained under ICB, a margin of preference of the lesser of 15 percent
of the c.i.f. price of the goods or the difference between the amount of custom duties and
other import taxes which a non-exeinpt importer would have to pay for the importation of
goods offered in a foreign bid and that applicable to a qualified Central American Common
Market (CACMO bid, in accordance with Appendix II of IDA's guidelines, may be granted to
bids offering goods manufactred to a substantial extent in any country, imcluding Nicaragua,
which is a party to the CACM Treaty. Uniform procurement procedures using Bank Group
standard bidding documents (May 1993) would be followed for procurement of goods
through ICB. Contacts valued at US$50,000 and above but less than US$150,000
equivalent would be carried out following LCB procedures, satisfactory to IDA, up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.6 million equivalent. Contracts below US$50,000 equivalent
would be procured by shopping procedures through price quotations obtained from at least
tee eligible suppliers, unless otherwise agreed by IDA, up to an aggregate limit of US$0.6
million equivalent. It is expected that mostly international shopping procedures would be
used for goods not manufactured in Nicaragua. During negotiation. agreemen   s reahed
that the Government would use IDA standard bkdn  documents for *CB. mth modifitons
agreed uon durng negotiations. and standard bidAng cuentsforLC  (para. 8.1(r)).
5.13. Phbrmaceuticals and Medical Equipment and SuppLies. These specilized items
(e.g., biomedical and odontolog;cal equipment, generic drugs, and contraceptives), valued at
at US$25,000 equivalent and above and up to a total amount equivalent of US$3.3 million,
for reasons of economy, efficiency, and strict quality requirements, would be procred
dtrough Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Small purchases of these items, valued at less than US$25,000 per contract and not exceeding
US$1.3 million in aggregate, would be done through price quotations from at least three
qualfied internatonal suppliers. Procurement of drugs of US$25,000 equivalent and above
would be done through UNICEF or another procurement agent satisfactory to IDA, and the
Government would enter into an agreement satisfactory to IDA for such purpose.
Procurement from UNICEF is proposed because: (a) UNICEF procures essential generic
drugs in bulk, according to procument procedures satisfactory to IDA, using pr-qualified
laboratories that ensure their quality as suppliers; (b) UNICEF pre-packages these drugs at
the UNIPAC facility in Copenhagen according to specifications to be provided by the MOH;



- 44 -
and (c) UNICEF schedules shipments annually, according to supply schedules to be specified
by the MOH.
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Non-IDA
Category                         ICB       LCB       Other    Financed     Total
Civil Works and Materials                    2.2        2.1W 1                4.3
(1.9)     (1.8)                 (3.7)
Goods and Equipment                0.6       0.6        0.6a}      2.2        4.0
(0.6)     (0.6)      (0.5)                 (1.7)
Vehicles                          -          -          0.4W       -          0.4
(0.4)                (0.4)
Medical Equipment                 -          -          0.6&       -          0.6
(0.6)                (0.6)
Pharmaceutical Products & Supplies  -        -          3.3W'                 3.3
(2.0)                (2.0)
Management Information System      0.9       -          -          -          0.9
(0.8)                                     (0.8)
Tra                               -          -          1.7        0.8        2.5
(1.7)                (1.7)
Consultants                       -          -          4.1        -          4.1
(4.1)                (4.1)
TOTAL                              1.5       2.8       12.8        3.0       20.1
-   _           *^~~~~~1.4)  (2.5)   (11.1)               (15.0)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts estimated to be finaced by IDA.
'  To be procured through prce quotations from at least three suppliers (local shopping)
hi To be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB)
' To be procured through international shopping (US$0.2 million) and LIB (US$0.4 million)
' To be procured through intemational shopping (US$1.3 million) and LIB (US$2.0 million)
5.14. Consultan. Individual consultants and consuldtg firms contracts carrying out
technical assistance, studies or training would be hired following IDA guidelines for
consultnts. Timetables for contracting the consultants and performing the studies under the
proposed project's techimcal assistance activities were reviewed by IDA and found
satisfactory.
5.15. Prior Review. Prior review of procurement procedures by IDA would be required
for aU p ment documentaton for ICB and LIB contracts. IDA would review the first
contr for LCB contracs for civil works or goods irrespective of value and all contracts for
civil works valued at US$200,000 and above and for goods costing US$100,000 and above.
All other conts would be subject to review in the field (ex-post) during IDA supervision



- 45 -
mission on the basis of random sampling. For consultants, prior review would be required
for all individual consultants. For contracts with consultants' firms, only contracts valued at
US$50,000 or above would be reviewed ex ante by IDA. The prior review arrangements
would cover about 75 percent of the value of total contracts. All documentation for
consultants not subject to prior review would be reviewed in the field by IDA supervision
missions for acceptability.
5.16. No detailed Country Procurement Assessment on Nicaragua has been undertaken
recently. However, Nicaragua's procurement regulations (Lev de Contrataciones
Administrativas del Estado, August 1992) clearly authorize, as a special provision, the
applicadon of procurement procedures of international financial institutions in the
procurement of works, goods, and services.
E. Disbursements
5.17. The proceeds of the Credit (US$15.0 million equivalent) would be lent to the
Republic of Nicaragua, which would transfer US$1.0 million under the same terms and
conditions as the IDA Credit to INSSBI. The balance of US$15.0 million would be allocated
to the MOH as a grant. As a condition of Credit effectiveness, the Government would have
entered into a Subsidiarv Agreement with INSSBI for malang the && avai to .SSSBI.
satsfactory to IDA (para. 8.2(b)). The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over a
period of about three and a half years, to be completed by June 30, 1997. The Credit
closing date would be December 31, 1997 (i.e., six months after the completion date). The
proceed. of the Credit would be disbursed as follows: (a) civil works for storage facilities,
90 percent of expenditures; (b) goods and equipment (other than for medical equipment and
pharmaceuticals), 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 75 percent of expenditures for other items procured locally; (c) goods for
the PCU, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 75 percent of expenditures
for other items procured localy; (d) medical equipment, 100 percent of total expendiures;
(e) pharmaceutical products and supplies, 100 percent up to an aggregate amount of US$0.8
million, 50% up to an aggregate amount of US$1.2 million, and 25 percent for the
remainder; (f) training, 90 percent of expenditures; (g) consultants, 100 percent of
expenditres; (h) MIS, 90 percent of expenditures; and (i) subprojects, 90% of amounts
disbursed by MOH for each subproject approved by MOH on or before June 30, 1996
(Annex 16). To facilitate project start-up activities, retroactive financing of up to US$0?75
million (5 percent of Credit amount) would be provided for eligible expenditures made after
October 1, 1993; funds would be used for urgently needed initial technical assisance,
training, and project administration activities.
5.18. Proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed against withdrawal applications
to be fMlly documented for contracts valued at US$50,000 or more equivalent for consultants,
US$200,000 or more for civil works, and US$100,000 or more for goods. Claims for
expenditures of lesser amounts and for incremental operating expenditures would be
disbursed against presentatiou of Statements of Expendiure (SOEs) for which the supporting
documentation would be retained by the PCU for periodic inspection by IDA and by external
auditors. All expenditures and SOEs would be transmitted to IDA through the PCU. Ihe



- 46 -
Government would set up a Special Account in US dollars in the Central Bank with an initial
deposit of US$1.5 million. Documentation requirements for withdrawals from the Special
Account would be the same as required above.
F. Accounting and Auditing
5.19. The MOH would establish and maintain separate project accounts and records for
project expenditures. The PCU would maintain a consolidated account of all expenditures
under the project. These accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles, with terms of reference approved by IDA,
and would include an audit of the SILAIS. The audit reports, which would include a
separate opinion on the adequacy of SOEs and on the Special Account, would be forwarded
to IDA no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation and Management
6.1. The MOH has been radically transformed and improved during the past year and
would have the capacity to implement the project or to absorb the technical assistance to be
provided. The MOH has established a clear strategy for the sector and is fully committed to
the project. During project preparation, the MOM has already taken a number of bold
initiatives that demonstrate its capacity to get things done. First, it has radically transformed
the budget allocatior system from a historical system to one where allocations are based on
objective physical and financial criteria. It has delegated to the SILAIS the implementtion
of 20 percent of the MOH budget, which has brought tangible improvements in the use of
resources (e.g., better availability of drugs, fumctioning ambulances, repairs of infrastrucure
and equipment). A number of non-performing SILAIS Directors have been or are already
being replaced and a bonus system has been introduced to remunerate better-performing
SILAIS Directors.
6.2. In addition, the MOH has already started to use technical assistance funds available
from the FISE project to: (a) strengthen the SILAIS on specific management aspects related
to the project (preparation of the SILAIS to the use of monitoring indicators for managemen
contracts, supervision of application of redefined primaty health care (PHC) model,
improvement of organization and job descriptions, preparation of training plans); (b) start
preparing changes in the legal framework; and (c) improve supply and distribution of
pharmaceuticals. This complements a training program for SILAIS managers and hospital
directors initiated last year by the MOH and provided by the University.
6.3. These initial efforts demonstrate that the MOH recognizes its institutional limitations,
but is detrmined to address themn specifically and systematically. To that effect, the project
will provide significant technical assistance and is designed in a phased fashion in line with
institutional capacity buildup.



- 47 -
6.4. The reforms undertaken by the new MOH management during the past year have
been endorsed by the MOH staff both at the central and SILAIS level. This represents a
broad-based support by various ideological groups, including some key personnel who bad
been closely associated with the previous centralized system. Thus, commitment to the
reform is not expected to change significantly even if there were a change in the top
management of the MOH.
B. Project Monitoring and Supervision Stratey
6.5.  The proposed project would require about 25 staff weeks of supervision per year. A
supervision plan is presented in Annex 22. The supervision team would be carefully
planned, and would be a combination of IDA staff and consultants with expertise in
institutional development, health care fiancing, management information, primary and
secondary health care, pharmaceuticals and medical supplies systems, and social security
issues. Supervision missions would be timed so that each year a mission would visit
Nicaragua in November to participate in the annual reviews (para. 6.6) and agree on the plan
of action for the following fiscal year and the budget. On the Government's side, the PCU
would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of all project components, using key
monitoring indicators. These monitoring indicators (Annex 20) and the terms of reference
for the mid-term review (para. 6.7 and Annex 22) were reviewed and agreed to during
negotiations. Data for periodic calculation of process indicators would be obtained through
the information systems of the MOH and INSSBI. Examples of indicators to be used would
be percentage of budget decentralized, degree of satisfaction of SILAIS Directors and central
MOH managers with the use of service provision arrangements, completeness and timeliness
of information provided by the MIS, degree of integration of the PHC model, PHC
indicators to measure health improvements such as infant and maternal mortality rates, and
finally increase in cost recovery at the secondary level. As it may take more than the three
and a half years of the project life to observe significant improvements in health outcomes
such as reductions in fertility or infant mortality, the proposed system of impact monitoring
indicators would be used by the Government beyond the project life. In addition, a special
module on health, including the measurement of outcomes, would be incorporated into the
Living Standard Measurement Survey (supported by IDA through the FISE project).
Operational and Supervision Manuals would govern the operation of the project's components
and would be maintained satisfactory to IDA. An event of default was agreed to which
would allow lDA to suspend disbursements  _the Operational Manuals for Hunan Resources
Development. Infrastructure and Eauipment. and Emergencv Rehabilitation Subiroects.
resnective&. and the Supennsion Manual for Primar Health Care were amended so as to
materiall and adversel affLect. in IDA's opinion. the cariving out of the respectrive
coMponents (para. 8.4(b)).
6.6. At the Annual Reviews, IDA, the MOH, and INSSBI would review progress made
against agreed an agreed set of indicators (Annex 20) and include, whenever applicable: (a)
review of implementation of sector strategies as spelled out in the policy letter; (b) analysis
of the previous year's performance (i.e., compliance with targets, decentralization progress,
budgetary allocations, functioning of implementation arrangements, main issues, and
remedial actions to overcome the constraints); (c) review of work plan for the coming



- 48 -
period; and (d) modifications in project design, if needed, to adjust to changing
circstances. Durinf negotiations. agreement was reached that the MON and INSSU
would: (i) undertake annual project implementation reviews no later than November 30 0f
each year. startinf in 1994: and (iU) submit plans for each component for the coming vear for
IDA's approval (para. 8.1(s)).
6.7. In June 1995, a Mid-Term Review of progress in implementing the project and the
program described in the policy letter (Annex 2), with the participation of the MOH,
INSSBI, IDA, and Norway representatives would assess progress of policy and institutional
reform, results of pilot testing and steps toward expansion of new modalities of service
provision and findings and recommendations of studies and possible applications. The mid-
term review would focus on: (a) compliance with the health sector policy letter; (b) progress
made in the institutional strengthening of the MOH, its impact on strengthening the
decentralization process and the functioning of the human resources development subprojects;
(c) the results, application and expansion of the decentralization mechanisms; (d) progress in
the implementation of the MIS; (e) implementation and impact of the redefined PHC model
on the efficiency, quality and equity in the delivery of health care services; (f) the planning,
selection and procurement of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, distribution system, the
prescription and use of drugs, and quality control; (g) the functioning of the emergency
rehabilitation subprojects for hospitals and the implementation of a maintenance program; (h)
the progress in the design and implementation of the INSSBI health insurance reform
program; and (i) the PCU performance (see Annex 22 for details). The PCU would be
responsible for organizing the mid-term review based on the terms of reference presented in
Annex 22. On the basis of this review, IDA, the MOH, and INSSBI would agree on
adjustments to project design, and implementation as necessary, and other donors would be
informed about the outcome of the review. During negotiations. agreement was reached that
the MOH. INSSBI. and IDA would conduct jointly an in-depth mid-term review of the project
and the gro-ram described in the Doli-v letter by June 30. 1995. under terms of reference
satisfactora to IDA. to be presented no later than Januwa 31. 1994. and on the basis of this
review, the MOH and INSSBI would prepare and camv out an action plan. satisfactory to
IDA (para. 8.1(t)).
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
7.1.  Project Benefits. The project's main benefit would be to enhance the country's
health status by increasing the efficiency of the Nicaraguan health system through improved
and decentralized management of resources, increased cost recovery, and sustainable
maintenance of facilities. It would help improve: (a) availability and quality of PHC
services, particularly PHC programs, including maternal and child health care and family
planning; and (b) quality and efficiency of secondary health care, an essential requirement for
cost recovery.
7.2. Project Economic Benefits. The proposed project would have a significant impact
on the financial equilibrium of the health sector by introducing a nunber of measures to
reduce the cost of providing services and concomitantly itroducing mechanim to recover a



- 49 -
share of those costs. Although it is difficult to quantify the precise impact of the investment
due to the long-term effects, the following section attempts to quantify the economic benefits
that would accrue as a result of the project interventions. A more detailed description of
these calculations is contained in Annex 3. With respect to savings, benefits can be broken
down into the following categories: (a) improvements in the pharmaceutical selection,
procurement, distribution, inventory control, and utilization, including prescribing practices;
(b) reductions in the unit cost of providing primary health care services; and (c) improved
maintenance and rehabilitation of health facilities and medical equipment that would defer
capital investments, reduce operating costs, produce more predictable output levels, lower
unit costs and increase public satisfaction. On the revenue side, additional income woul(d be
generated through: (a) increased cost-recovery at the secondary level; and (b) full cost
pricing of services provided to INSSBI affiliates.
7.3.  Project components oriented toward improvements in the pharmaceutical sector would
reduce the cost of procuring drugs and supplies and increase the effectiveness, in terms of
health status, of each dollar spent on pharmaceuticals, while concurrently exploring options
to expand pharmaceutical cost recovery. Cost reductions would result from: reduction in
the frequency of stockouts, decreased unit costs of pharmaceuticals and supplies, reduction in
inappropriate selection, product expiration, poor quality of procured products, and shortages,
dereased operating costs of the CIPS, increased availability of generics, and decreased
inapproprate use of pharmaceuticale. The reduced cost per unit would release additional
resources that would allow the MOH to expand services to at risk groups that do not
curenty have access and to improve the quality and convenience of care for those that do.
Based on conservative targets established by the MOH and IDA, these improvements should
provide between US$1.1 million and US$2.8 million of economic benefits per year.
Potential Economic Benefits from Selected Project Interventions
Total         Potential Economic Benefits (US$ Millions)
Area of Economic Loss     Annual Loss    (According to Success of Project Implementation)
(US$ Millions)   Low (30%)   Medium (3%)    High (80%)
Pharmaceuticals                         4.1          1.1             1.8              2.8
Primary Health Care Model               1.8          0.5             0.9              1.4
Maintenance                             N.Q'
INSSBI Payment and Workmens'           24.5          7.4            12.3             19.6
Compensation Insurance
Improved Cost Recovery (from            N.Q2         0.9             1.5              2.5
non-affiliates of INSSBI)
TOTAL                                  30.4          9.9            16.5             26.3
A lack of adequate data renders it impossible to estimate the total loss resulting from improper
maintenance and investment.
2      Given that cost recovery will not be applied to all patients and in all facilities it is not feasible
to quantify the Total Current Loss that results from not having user fees at present.



- 50- 
7.4. With regard to modifications to the current PHC model, the integration of PHC
programs would reduce the unit cost of providing services, such as immunizations and family
planning, as the amount of staff time required would be significantly reduced. Further,
patients would realize significant savings as the opportunity cost of seeking care would be
reduced. These would result in a conservative 10 percent reduction in the unit cost of
delivering primary health care services. Given that the MOH allocated roughly US$18
million to primary care in 1992, a 10 percent reduction would produce between US$0.5
million and US$1.4 million of savings.
7.5.  Another important element related to reducing the recurrent costs of the sector and
improving the efficiency and quality of service is the proper maintenance and rehabilitation
of equipment. Adequate investment in preventive maintenance and repair of equipment
would: (a) lower variable operating costs resulting from more efficient methods of service
provision, e.g., care provided at the proper level and time; (b) minimize investment
requirements to compensate for the decline in availability of existing equipment capacity and
lifespan; (c) maximize institutional revenues, as facilities become more able to collect user
fees on equipment that is functioning; and (d) lower the patient's opportmity cost of seeking
care, as well as limiting the obstacles to providing preventive care.
7.6.  In addition to the savings that will be made as a result of improvements in the
operation and efficiency of the health sector, the MOH and the project would support
government initatives to search for alternative means of generating revenue and reducing
costs. The first initiative would be the sale of health services by the MOH to INSSBI. At
present, INSSBI collects approximately US$21 million dollars in health care premiums from
public and pnvate sector affiliates. In theory, these revenues are earmarked for the purchase
of health care for INSSBI members. In practice, however, these revenues are not transferred
but are used to subsidize the reserve fund of the Social Security System. The project would
provide technical assistance to develop collection mechanism to ensure that the health care
premums currently collected by INSSBI will be used to purchase health care services from
the MOH, which are currently provided free of charge. According to preliminary estimates,
the improved collection mechanism would generate additional revenues between US$7.4
million and US$19.6 million annually. In addition, the MOH would develop the framework
to systematically collect and allocate user fees from those who are not affiliated to INSSBI
but who can afford to pay for selected services in secondary level facilities. Based on the
calculations contained in Annex 3, minor charges for services such as X-rays (US$1.70) and
general consultation (US$1.00), would generate additional revenue that could be used to
improve the quality of service and expand coverage to meet unmet demand, Using seven
basic service categories, including, inter alla, laboratory exams, X-rays, and inpatient and
outpatient visits, hospitals would generate additional revenues between 3 percent and 8
percent of current total MOH budgetary allocations.
7.7.  One of the primary objectives of the project is to improve the current model to ensure
the sustainability of an efficient health care system that delivers quality care to the maximum
number of people. Due to the paucity of necessary data and the uncertainty involved in the
reforms, it is difficult to estimate precisely the economic retums from the various
components of the proposed investment. The estimates presented in the above table,



- 51 -
however, use a conservative range of assumptions to estimate yearly savings plus additional
revenues. Based on these estimates, and assuming a reasonable 50 percent success rate for
each project intervention, the economic benefits of the project would amount to over US$15
million per year, considerably greater than the IDA Credit. The track record of reforms
iimplemented by the MOH and INSSBI in 1993 and the determination of these institutions'
current management to implement further reform point to a potentially high success rate.
However, given possible disruptions in project implementation linked to the country's
historically delicate economic and political situation, a 50 percent implementation success
rate appears reasonable. Although more difficult to quantify, additonal benefits would be
realized as a result of decentralization. These benefits would likely manifest in the form of
improvements in the allocative efficiency of the health sector as SILAIS directors are given
the autonomy and the financial resources to allocate their resource according to the needs
expressed at the local level.
7.8. Project Risks. The main risks are: (a) the feasibility of accomplishing a reform
program given Nicaragua's weak institutional base; (b) possible delays by MOH to
implement policy refonns because of likely opposition from affected interest groups (such as
unions, medical associations, pharmaceutical suppliers); and (c) Govemment counterpart
financing constraints. Risk (a) would be mitigated by a gradual implementation of reforms in
line with building of institutional capacity through technical assistance and the training of
managers who would implement the reforms. Risk (b) would be mitigated by donors' united
support of reform, the MOH's strong commitment to reform, and the Govermment's
consensus-building through the staging of seminars with various interest groups to discuss the
reform. Risk (c) would be mitigated by limiting the level of Government participation to 10
percent of total project cost and receiving a multi-annual commitment from the Government
to provide counterpart funds.
7.9. Euvironmental Rating. The project would have no adverse environmental impact,
and is classified as C.
7.10. Program Objective Categories. The project would support a program of targeted
interventions. The project would help reduce poverty through: (a) establishment of a
decenralized and improved health care delivery system which would immediately benefit the
underserved poor populations in remote areas; and (b) continued strong emphasis on free
PHC care services for the poor.
VmI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1. During negotiations, agreement was reached:
(a)   that a review of budget decentralization by the Govermnent would be
completed no later than March 31, 1995 to: (i) analyze strengths and
weakesses of its implementation; (ii) assess whether the pace of budget
decentralization is adequate considering the SILAIS capacity; and (iii)
recommend improvements to the system. Based on this assessment and the



- 52 -
progress made in the improvement of human resources administration, an
acdon plan would be agreed upon by April 30, 1995 comprising modalities and
timing of decentralization of human resources; implementation of the action
plan would commence no later than May 31, 1995 (para. 4.4(a)(iii));
(b)  that the Government would present a draft resource allocation system on a
corrected per capita basis no later than September 30, 1994 for review by IDA
and would initiate implementation on a pilot basis, satisfactory to IDA, in at
least five SILAIS no later than January 1, 1995 (para. 4.4(b));
(c)   that the Govermment would: (i) undertake a study, to be completed no later
than June 30, 1995, to review the pilot implementation of corrected per capita
resource allocation system, assess the feasibility of extending the system to all
SILAIS, and assess the feasibility of introducing on a pilot basis a resource
allocation system based on the cost per capita of delivering health care
services; (ii) review the results of the study with IDA at the mid-term review;
and (iii) start implementing an agreed action plan no later than September 1,
1995 (para. 4.4(b));
(d)   that the Government would: (i) review the experience and results of the cost
accounting system currently in use on a limited basis and discuss with IDA, no
later than December 31, 1994, the feasibility of expanding the cost accounting
system to all hospitals and SILAIS; and (ii) start implementing, no later than
February 1, 1995, an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, of agreed measures
(para. 4.4(c));
(e)   that the MOH would make satisfactory service provision arrangements with the
SILAIS, which would include compliance with simple key indicators (para.
4.4(d));
(f)   that the Government would review implementation of the service provision
arrangements system by September 30, 1994, would review the results with
IDA by October 31, 1994, and would start implementing the improved service
provision arrangements in all SILAIS no later than January 1, 1995 (para.
4.4(d));
(g)   that: (i) terms of reference for a cost recovery study, satisfactory to IDA,
would be prepared no later than March 31, 1994; (ii) the study would be
conducted and results discussed with IDA no later than December 31, 1994;
and (iii) the Government would start implementing the study's
recommendations no later than February 1, 1995 (para. 4.4(e));
(h)   that the Government would conduct by September 30, 1994, a study of the
health manpower market in Nicaragua, including ways to improve the
nurse:doctor ratio, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. The results
of the study would be discussed with IDA no later than October 31, 1994, and



- 53 -                                \
the recommendations would be implemented beginning January 1, 1995 (para.
4.5);
(i)  that human resources development subprojects costing more than US$75,000
and the first three subprojects, regardless of cost, would require IDA's prior
approval (pan. 4.8);
(j)   that: (i) the MOH would submit for IDA review terms of reference for tbe 
study of the existing MIS, satisfactory to IDA, no later than April 30, 1994;
(ii) recommendations for a new system, action plan, and timetable for
implementation would be discussed and agreed with IDA no later than
December 31, 1994; and (iii) start implementation of an agreed action plan no
later than Febnay 1, 1995 (para. 4. 10);
(k)   that the MOH would complete two pharmaceutical policy and regulation
stdies and discuss their results and recommendations with IDA no later than
October 31, 1994, and that an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, would sit to
be implemented no later than December 1, 1994 (para. 4.19));
(j)  that the MOH would complete the pilot program for the support of pilot
private pharmacy operations in a Managua hospital no later than June 30,
1995, that the recommendations would be discussed with IDA during the mid-
term review, and that an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, would start to be
implemented no later than August 1, 1995(para. 4.20);
(m)  that the MOH would complete the rational drug use study no later than
December 31, 1994, that the recommendations would be discussed with IDA
no later than January 31, 1995, and that an action plan, satisfactory to IDA,
would start to be implemented no later than March 1, 1995 (para. 4.22);
(n)  that the MOH would: (i) complete the maintenance and recurrent cost studies,
discuss their results and recommendations, and agree on an action plan with
IDA no later than December 31, 1994; and (ii) the MOH would st
implementing the action plan no later than March 1, 1995 (para. 4.24);
(o)  that the Government would: (i) review the progress in the reform of the
health insurance program and its implementation no later than September 30,
1994; (ii) discuss the results of the review with IDA no later than December
31, 1994; and start implemendng an agreed action plan no later than FebnrY
1, 1995 (para. 4.25);
(p)  that the Project Coordinating Unit would be maintained with structure and
functions, and staffed with personnel with qualifications and experience,
satisfactory to IDA until completion of the project (para. 4.28);



- 54 -
(q)  that the Government would: (i) provide the following minimum amounts, as
counterpart funds for the fmancing of the project: [al US$1.0 million for
1994; [b] US$0.7 million for 1995; and [c] US$0.4 million for 1996; and (i)
advance from the above amounts, and not later than the first day of each
quarter, amounts sufficient to cover estimated counterpart funding
requirements during that quarter (para. 5.4);
(r)  that the Govermment would use IDA standard bidding documents for ICB, with
modifications agreed upon dunng negotiatons, and standard bidding
documents for LCB (para. 5.12);
(s)  that the MOH and INSSBI would: (i) undertake anmual project implementation
reviews no later than November 30 of each year, starting in 1994; and (ih)
submit plans for each component for the coming year for IDA's approval
(para. 6.6); and
(t)  that the MOH, INSSBI, and IDA would conduct jointly an in-depth mid-term
review of the project and the program described in the policy letter by June
30, 1995, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, to be presented no
later than January 31, 1994, and on the basis of this review, the MOH and
INSSBI would prepare and carry out an action plan, satisfactory to IDA (para.
6.7).
8.2. As conditions of Credit effectiveness, the Government would have:
(a)   made service provision arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, with at least three
SILAIS (para. 4.4(d)); and
(b)   entered into a Subsidiary Agreement with INSSBI for making the funds
available to INSSBI, satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.17).
8.3.  As conditions of disbursement:
(a)   for any of the project's seven participating SILAIS under the Primary Health
Care component, individual service provision arrangements would have been
made by the respective SILAIS with the MOH (para. 4.4(d));
(b)   for the Human Resources Development subcomponent, the Government would
have adopted an Operational Manual for human resources development
financing, satisfactory to IDA (pan. 4.8);
(c)   for computer hardware, agreement with the Government would have been
reached on a detailed action plan for implementing the new MIS (pam. 4.10);



- 55 -
(d)   for pharmaceutical products and medical supplies, a reduced essential drugs
and medical supplies list, satisfactory to IDA, would have been presented
(para. 4.13);
(e)   for the Infrastructure and Equipment subcomponent for PHC facilities, the
MOH would have adopted an Operational Manual for PHC infrastructure and
equipment financing, satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.16);
(f)   for the Primary Health Care component, a Supervision Manual incorporating
monitoring and evaluation indicators, satisfactory to IDA, would have been
presented (para. 4.17); and
(g)   for rehabilitation of hospitals, the MOH would have adopted an Operational
Manual, satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.23).
8.4. Events of default were agreed to which would allow IDA to suspend disbursements if:
(a)   the Governent failed to fulfill all conditions for effectiveness of the Norway
Grant Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of the IDA
Credit Agreement, no later than June 30, 1994 (para. 5.5); and
(b)   the Operational Manuals for Human Resources Development, Infrastuctr
and Equipment, and Emergency Rehabilitation Subprojects, respectively, and
the Supervision Manual for Primary Health Care were amended so as to
materially and adversely affect, in IDA's opinion, the carrying out of the
respective components (para. 6.5).
8.5.  Recommendation. Subject to the above conditions, the project would constitute a
suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR1O.8 million (US$15 million equivalent) to the
Republc of Nicaragua on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturyt, including 10 years of
grace.



NICARAGUA
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEXES
1.    Country and Health Indicators
2.    Health Sector Policy Letter
3.    Health Sector Expenditures and Financing
4.    MOH Organization Chart
5.    Terms of Reference for Institutional Strengthening Technical Assistance
6.    Redefined Primary Health Care Model
7.    Human Resources Development Subprojects
8.    Existing Family Planning Programs in Nicaragua
9.    Phannaceutical Supply and Distribution
10.   Emergency Rehabilitation of Hospitals
11.   Maintenance System for Health Facilities
12.   Technical Assistance to INSSBI
13.   Project Costs
14.   Financing Plan
15.   Methods of Procurement
16.   Disbursements
17.   Project Coordinating Unit
18.   Project Action Plan
19.   Project Implementation Schedule
20.  Key Monitoring Indicators
21.   Coordination between Donors
22.   Supervision Plan and Mid-Term Review
23.   Documents in Project File



NICARAGUA                             ANNEX 1
HEALTH SECIDR REFORM PROJECT                      Page 1 of 1
t.. I                        COUNTRY AND HEALTH INDICATORS
*I hndicator                                            Value Year       Source
Country and Income Data
Area (000 km2)                                         130  N/A       WDR
GNP per capita (US$)                                   422  1992    IDA est.
Population Indicators
Population (millions)                                  4.3  1993    MOH est.
of which urban (percent)                           61.0  1992     UNFPA
Pbpulation growth rate (percent)                       3.4  1991    MOH est.
Lif expec ncy at birth (years)                        67.0  1992     UNFPA
Health Care Indicatrs
Crude death rate (per 1,000 population)                7.0  1991    WDR 93
Immunization (under 1 yr, % of age group):
Measles                                            83.0  1990      MOH
DPT                                                88.0  1993
bberulosis                                         90.0  1993
lblio                                              98.0  1993
-lbtal health expendiures as percent of GDP            4.9  1991    IDA est.
Health expenditr  as percent of Government spending   18.2  1991    IDA est.
Reproductive Health
Share of women who are of childbeag age               46.0  1991    WDR 93
Crude birth rate (per 1,000 population)                 40  1991 -  WDR 93
Fertility rat (births per woman)                       5.1  1991    WDR 93
Conraceptive prevalence (share of nimales 1549)
Urban                                                63  1993  PROFAMIL1A
Rural                                                38  1993  PROFAMILIA
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)           72  1990    IDA est.
Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)
Urban                                                78  1990
Bread for the
Rural                                               209  1990  World Institute
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)      159  1989      MOH
Nutrition Indicators
Low birthweight infant (percent)                        27  1991    UNICEF
Malnourished children under 5 yrs of age (percent)      13  1991      MOH
Sting, children 6-9 (percent)                           22  1986      INCAP
Daily calorie intake (percent of recomm. minimum)       86  1989      MOH
Daily protein intake (percent of reomm. minimm)         75  1989      MOH
Environmental Health
Access to saf water (percent of population)
Urban                                                78  1989      INAA
Rural                                                18  1989      INAA
Access to saniaon (percent of populaton)                16  1989      INAA



MCARAGUA                              ANNEX 2
HEALTH SECIDR REFORM PROJECr                      Page I of 9
Ma1agua, November 17, 1993
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
Preslient
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. President,
As part of the preparation of the Nicaraguan Healt Sector Moderization Prqject that the
Government of Nirgua hopes to undetk with World Bank financng, we would like to
present to you the prinples underlyg the Social Policy of the Government of Nicua and
specifically, the polcies of the Ministry of Health that prwide the context for the activities
contemplate under the prposed project.
I     Socil and EconomDc Policy of the Goverment of Nic a
Consistent wih its overall economic limitations and with the Letter of Socal Sector Policies sent
to you in October 1992, the Goenment's Social and Economic Policy emphase actions that
aim to transform the role of the State from a central planner to a facitator, limiting its
interventions to those areas where publhc sector partpatn  is essential for improvng the equity
of access to economic opportunities and basic social services. In prall, the Goement is
encouraging greater community participaon to enable the people of Nicragua to play a larer
role in shaping their own development. it is also promoting ger sinability of public
actions by building a colaborie r onship between the State, the society, the private sector
and inteatol donor
To achieve these goals, the Goverment is developing an integrted and cohert framework for
social policy, desiged to imprve the efficc and equity of socia prgams though a variety
of means, including exploring new opportUnites for resource mobilization. The decentraliztion
of prgram administ, as well as of policy formulation, control and evaluation is an
important element of this stategy.
In line with the Government's general policy famework, the Ministy of Health has established
fundamental principles to guide its new Health Sector Policy and undepin a new model of health
sector management and sevice delivery. These principles include:
a)    Health as a right of all the people: The State will guarantee the people's access to all
acdions to ensure their health; it will also guatee their liberty to choose among the
public or privawe health sstems available.
*,



NICARAGUA                             ANNEX 2
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                      Page 2 of 9
2
b)    Equity in te health sector. The State wil guarantee a sytm  of health care delivery that
will minimize inequlits of access to basic health care.
c)    Soldaity in health: The State will target its health care provision effirts to te most
vulnerble groups; and
d)    The individual bear pnncipal responsblity for his health: Since people play an
important role in teir own healft mainuwanrc, they sould actively particpate in health
promoton, protection, recovery and rehabilitation activides.
Tne Government of the Republic of Niragua is conscious of the urgent need to unpove the
living conditions and health of the N'iarga people. For this reason, it strongly suppors te
refms in the Ministry of Health. It will protect the Ministry's budget allocadon and promote
an increase in primary health care spending within the overal sector budget
II    PrEindpal Problems of the Nkaraguan Health System
Nicaragua entued the decade of the 1990s as one of the poorest counties of the Americas, and
with an imposing gap between the basic needs of ner people and the real possibilities of the
goernment to sasfy thse needs. Basic hygiene and health conditions are those of an early
stage of theepidemioloicaltansition, as reflect  in high aes of matunal and infant morality
as wel as in high fertiity rates.
Although the infant mortality rate has decined from 121/1000 live birhs in 1965 to 72/1000 live
births in 1992, it remains one of the highest in Central Ameica  The principal causes am
diafrhea, perinatal illnesses and acute respirawry infecdons, which alone account for 75% of
infant mortality and 50% of child mortality. Approximately 28% of children sufer some degre
of malnutrition.
The matenal mortality rate is 159/100,000 live births, prinmarily due to hemorrhage, toxemia
and sepsis; one third is due to induced abortions. Ihe total frtility re is 5.5.
Coverg of basic water and sanitation services is inffcient, leaving the populatin vlnerable
to water borne diseses, especially in ru  areas where wate services reach only 19% of the
population and whre basic sniton is available to only 16%.
More than 20% of the population is illitere, while the repetition and dropout raes between first
and second grades is 47%. Only 30% of the childr who enter primary school complete sixth
grade after six years.
These socal condiins present an eve greater challnge considering at we inheied a health
sysem that is instituionally weak, and which had lost its prestige in the eyes of the people, the
Government, the inteational community and even its own workers. The system has been
charctrzed by a lack of nmagement, controls and systems, and by the absence of polices to
guide the nmagement of medical supplies, personnel, maintenance and inwstments.
Moreover, even after the adoption of decentralied management structures based in the Loc1 
Inteated Health Care Systms (SILAIS), the primary health care proallis in the centrak 



NICARAGUA                             ANNEX 2
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                      Page 3 of 9
3
ministy have been developed verficaly, with no integrtion of activities directed at mothse and
children, and with iadequate local and nattona retra and counter-referral sytms.
The financal mangmet of the health ytem has been charactid by an i
allocation of resoucs, inefficiency in their use, inequity in sector spending and an explosion
in the costs of sevices delivered.
Ihe struc  of the health system's labor force is disorted, with a distibution in September
1993 of medical staff to administrative staff of 83.7% and 16.3%, respectvly. The sucu
and composi  of the medical staff reveal inratios of nurs to doctors (2.5:1), and
of speciists to genema doctors (1.5:1).
Health stis and inrmation are deficient, eflcting the lack of integration of health aiid
management infomation stems and constaining adequately informed decision maing at all
levls of the health systen. This wealness is also manifest in a lack of of sufficient indicators
to monitor health sector plans and progamms.
TMe chronic shoage of medical supples in health facilities is another of the most serious
problems of the helth sector. The main fAo underlymg this problem include the absence of:
programming mechanisms to guide purchase orders; supervision mechanisms and sructus;
inventory control mechanisms; and an adequate distibution system.
Finally, as the result of years of virtually no public investmt in the sector, the absence of a
cea maintenan  and invetmt policy, low echnical cmpbilities and high staff  rover rates,
the miisty of HealA now finds that approiay 70% of health posts and centers and 50%
of hostas require urgent rehbili ton. These figures do not even consider the complete
subtitun that many othes require or will requre in the near future.
in    Healh Polices
Fulfilling its responsibility to guide the health activities of the State, the Ministry of Health has
defined the folowing polcies as the basis to improve health service quality and stengthen sector
institutions.
Developing Pd*ay HeaWh Care
Primary health care constitutes the central stategy of our health care model. We are curnty
reorganizing basic health services accordng to the most urgent health needs of the populatn
in each SILAIS. In. partcular, we are prioritizing preventive health care for mothers and
children  wough integrated health care actions to reduce matemr  and infant morbidity and
mortality, as well as the promonn of basic sanitary education and nutritional surveillance. We
are also strengening our capacites to identify and control societ and epidemiological health
risks, including tho  caused by e nmental deterioration, the absence of basic sanition
sevices, and biological, physical and chemical contamination. We will target and prioritz
actions locally, to have a greater impact on those facto  tht are susceptible to cost-effctive
intervntions.                                                            /



NICARAGUA                             ANNEX 2
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                      Page 4 of 9
4
Strengthening Hospil Care
Ihe secondaty level hospitals are the referal and support cents for the local networks of health
services. To sege  service coordiation, we are adaptng the model of hospital care to
complement primary care sevces, and modernizing hospital management.
Developing Social Panicdpatior.
Including social participatton in healdth care management structures reinforces their democatic
chracter. To achieve local patcipation for pogm acountability and ownership, we are
consolidating the National Healith Council, Loal Health Councils, and Governing Boards of
Hospitals, as well as working with various commissions and movements that support health
sector efforts.
Strengthenfng the Decentralzaion Process
Decentraliaon is one of our principal instruments to reform the national health system. The
decentralizion process is conceived as a planned and ordered transfer of the political,
administrative and technical authonty from the central organisms to fte SILAIS, along with the
responsibility for the actions that stem from this authority. To support this process, we are
strengthening SlLAIS planning capacities as wel as their analytic, programmatic and operational
capbilities.
As part of the decentralizaion process we are strengthening popular participation in the
management of health services, through a process of negotiation, coordinaton and consensus
building. Communities, individuals and health sector personl are being encouraged to take
greater responsibility for the conduct, progamming and management of services and fcilitiea
In this context, the State retains its responsibility to chamel the necessay basic resources, to
protect institutional property, and to improve servce quality and the access of vulnerable groups
to basic health services.
Strengthening the Central Minisry of Heah
The central level of the Ministry of Health is responsible to set norms and regulate the health
system. To fufill this role, we are strengthening policy development and general sector srategy
design capabilities to respond to the principal health problems of the country. We are also
reinforcing the roles of deparment directors in establishing performance goals and objectives,
and untrducing a new concept of supavision.
Hwman Resources
Our human resources constitute the principal asset of the health system. The planning, training
and administration of human resources in health must respond to the needs of the system,
according to prvailing models of service delivery, and facilitate the rationalization of
occupational structures and a gradual comection in the spatal distibution of health personnel.
Infomwion Systems
Information systems are the source of health and management infornation for adequate decision
making at all levels of the health system. We will redefine our system to develop appropriate
information systems which ensure uniformity and compatibility in the information generated.
Medica" Supplies
The reorganization of the pharmaceutical supply system is the basis for optimizing resource use
and ensunng the wide availability of basic supplies. We plan to explore new modalities of X\ ,



NICARAGUA                             ANNEX 2
HEALTH SECrOR REFORM PROJECT                      Page 5 of 9
5
prmming, purchasing, storage (including inventory management and control), distribution
and prescripon, and evaluate the potential for greater private sector participation in some of
these processes.
Developing the Legal Frmewrrk
Developing the legal framework of the sector will help guarantee the sustainability of the health
sector modemization. We plan to establish the legal basis of the sector, defining among other
things, a Genal Health Law that establishes the responsibility of State and society in the
delivery of health svices.
Aernadw Sources of fNancng
The Ministry of Health is promoting altenative sources of financing. Principal among those
under considertion are the sale of services to the Nicaraguan Social Secunty Institute (INSSBI),
the introduction of private rooms for hospital patients, and specal arrangements with
communities. To complement these new servce provision and financing modalities, the Ministry
of Health wil advocate the development of medical insurance packages wnthin the INSSBI that
reflect the criteria established in the National Health Policy.
IV    Pincipal Strategies for Health Polic lIy plementation
The Ministry's stragies for health policy implementation include:
A)   Phimwy Healh Came
The Ministry of Health is deepening its Primary Health Care strategy, to correct deficiencies due
primarily to the lack of integration among programs - especially at the central level of the
ministry - and to inadequate coordination between the primary and secondary levels of service
provision.
The main challenge facing the Mfinistry in this area is the implementation of an integmted
prmary health care model in every SILAIS. This new model will provide the impetus to
improve our strtegies of prevention, early detection and control of prncipal health problems,
relying on low cost actions and supported by community participation.
The Government will promote fmily plannig as an integral element of the pnmary health care
model and will increase the capacity of the Ministy of Health to deliver these services and
progams. Specifically, it wiU improve the Ministry's capacity for community outreach,
information, education and communication services, while making available modern
contraceptive methods for birth spacing and to reduce high risk pregnancies.
In support of these objectives, we are undertaking the following activities which together
constitute a coherent and integraed program of primary health care:
*    Training, developing technical and managerial capabilities in the SILAIS, and focussing
on intgrated services to confront the country's priority health problems;  /
*    Introduction of a system of referral and counter-referal, with the aim of improvin
service quality;



NICARAGUA                             ANNEX 2
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                      Page 6 of 9
6
*     Introduction of information, educadon and communication programs for health, aimed
at imprving popular awareness of principal health problems, with emphasis on their
prevention and early detcdon;
*    Strengthening community partcipation so as to obtain popular involvement in the solution
of priority health problems;
*    Providing medical and non-medical supplies according to a inewr basic suppUes list that
prioritizes prmary care programs;
*   . Rehabiliing primary health care infrasucte to facilitate service quahity improvements
with the introduction of the integrated model of prmary health care.
B)   Insdonal Strengthening
The Ministry of Health is implementing reforms that will strengthen insttutional capacites at
all levels, while reaffirming the normative role of the central structu. To this end, the
Ministry's principal efforts are in the following areas:
Finance
To attain its overching objectives of improvmg local opeatin capacities and the eficency
of resource use, the Ministry of Health is deepening the process of budgetary decentralon.
This strategy will permit the SILAIS to direcdy execute a growing proportion of their budget
twough a gradual process, taking into account needs to increase local capabilites. Tbis process
will -delegate not only budgetary authority but also the responsibility for the results obtained.
As of July, 1993, the SILAIS are directdy executing 20% of fte allocable budget, and we expect
that this amount will reach close to 100% at the end of the decentralion process.
In paralld with the budgetary decentalition, the Ministry is defining a more equitable
methodology for allocating financial resources to the SILAIS. We wdl establish capitaion
models which incorporate population and epideminological varables and which take into account
both fiscal and donor resources.
Resource allons will be governed by annual management arrangements signed between the
central ministry and the SlLAS. The objective of this mechanism is to link the results of
SILAS management performance to resource allocation. Results wil be monitored according
to a set of muually agreed indicators that will provide the basis for performance-rdated
incentives and sanctions.
The introduction of a cost accounting system to identify service production costs is anotier
prerequste for equtable resource allocations. The Minisay of Health plans to desgn and
implement such a system as an integral element to support its decentalition strate.
In the context of national budgetary restrictions, the Gvemet of Nicaragua will protect the
health sector from budget cuts, especially in the priority area of pdmary health care programs. 7
In the event tat budget cuts become unavoidable, the health sector budget will not be cut,
proportionately more than budgets of othr sectors, and these pniority programs will be prtec
relative to others.



NICARAGUA                              ANNEX 2
HEALTH SECTIOR REFORM PROJECT                      Page 7 of 9
7
In fte sm   vein, fte Ministry of Health plans to improve the quality and efficiency of basic
health caservice delivery as well as the equty of access to hese sces by seeking
altenative sources of financing. In this process, the Ministry wiU maintain its policy of free
basic primary health care.
The Ministry is contemplatng varous financing altenatives, of which fte most importnt are:
i. The sale of services to the INSSBI, which will permit the Ministry of Health to recover
a significant share of service delivery costs. Under this arangmt, the Miistry will attend
to insured worker and their bencars  with difeentiated servi, while preservig eqity
in the quality of services delivered. The introducdon of this health financing uaragement wil
help establish the basis for a private health insurance madket and srengthen the market for public
health insurance.
In paallel to these initiatives of the Ministry of Health, the INSSEI is: (i) designing and
implementing a system of health insurance through which it wiU purchase services from the
Ministry of Health and from the private sector, (ii) designing and implementing a system of
women's compensation insurance; and (iii) undertaing the preliminary economic and actuarial
studies to evaluate the feaibility of reforming the pension system.
ii. The sale of services to patients in private hospital rooms, which will permit tie Ministry
of Health to collect revenues based on charges for service delivery. These services will be
diffeentiated only in their conditions of patient acmdaons, and will be offered to those
persons, oganisms or companies that request them.
These new sources of finance wil partially resolve hea  facility needs by allowing them to use
funds colletcd for pr i  eaptng ependitures.
Huma Rcources
The Ministry of Health plans to develop a Human Resouces Polcy that will indicate those
elements most imporant for the planning, development and administration of the human
resources of the Ministry. The policy will identify means to raionalize the occupational
stucture and spaial distribuion of the health labor force to conrspond to the epidemiological
profile, sevice needs and levels of attention to be provided in each territory.
As part of this process, the Ministry of Health is daeveping a new adminitrive model which
includes such key instruments as: a new stucure of jobs and fiuntons, a salary strucure and
a benefits and incentves system. These instruments will be logical, and compatible with both
insttutional finacial possibilities and individual levels of development and productivity. The
model wil also incorporate systems of evuation and promotion and, importanly, a reguatory
Law of Adminisrtdve-Health Careers.
In addition, corTecting disequiibria in the composition of the health labor force is one of our
priorities. We have taken vaious actions that aim, anong other things, to imprwe the
nurse:doctor ratio. A first group of measu  consists of the esblishment of new employment
relatonsips with medical intens as wel as with general practdonen and specialists who
compete for job vacancies accoding to the needs of the system.



IIEI tr                 ft
1;        U,        .hr
I!I         Ru    I'             41
pr*                 ''I
siph
1111                44  1 
di    LI!        [[If  III       I4II  411
0.
I.    .3
P      I                  
UI    liii              nIl    I""   iifl
31
at  II       if
a
'ct



NICARAGUA                              ANNEX 2
HEALTH SEC'IDR REFORM PROJECT                     Page 9 of 9
9
*     Rehabilitation of health poss and centers, incorporaing the requiremts of fte new
integrted model of prnmary health care;
*    Rehabilitation of criical areas of hospitals, such as: labor and deivery Ooms, matel_
and child care aras, cntica sevces (emergency, intsve care, and opeag rooms),
as well as fee-based private accommodations;
*     Design of a maintenance system  which will guide acvities in this area; and
*     Elaboraton of a study for the desig  of a unibrm mecthodology to detemine the
recurrent cost impact of new inestments.
In conlusion,     uld like to rteat   e importance of donor reso s in conttibutng to
the infit        dee  nof the Miny of Health. To promote effective coordin   and
unified lines of intweention, we are enung tat donor activit  support the frumework set out
the i Minsts National Hedth Polcy  in adtion, donor resour    are being consieed as
part of the budget of the Ministry of Health to ensure the complementuity of resoe allocation
in sffp   ofw  l  priority progams.
Tsare the ptncipal areas in which the Ministry of Health is concentating its efforts and for
which the Govnment of Niargua hopes to obtain the deive support of the World
an/neratina Devlopment Aociation in financing te  Nica_g   Health Sector
5ach componen of this proect will maki a dirct contbution to achieving the desired results
of our ref     process and to solving the principal problms cofronting the Ministry of Health:
Nicrguan Health Sector M niztion Project
Comrponent I:           Primary Health Care;
Component Il:           Instiutional Strengthening of the Ministry;
Component III           Improving the System of P   au   Supply;
Componet IV-:            Rehbilitaion and Maintnce of Infr        and Equipment;
Component V_-:                 aAssia    to J B.
Mr. Preston, the policies prented in this lelter and the actions to be generated in their
implementtion, reent perhaps the most important effort that the Goverment of NiCaiagu
has n        in the health sector. The Go ment, along with the var      sectors Of our
society, is cmmitted to these policies, and thy rees   our bet chance to impr   the health
condo        of the Nicazaguan people.  , / r
,/ , 
Sineredy Yours,
1;',<~~4 ;t'& K -
Mart L Paladio                                   a
Miister of Health                     of Fmce



NICARAGUA                              ANNE 3
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                     Page 1 of 10
HEALTH SECTOR EXPENDITURES AND FINANCING
A. Overview
1.    TIn years of civil war ravaged the central govermment's capacity to generate revenue
and limited public sending. But despite significant reductions in overl government
spending, health care expenditures increased as the governent exanded the existing
infrastructre of clinics and health posts to extend coverage from 30 percent of the
population to 70 percent. This commitment to the health sector has been maintained as the
central govermnent continues to spend 19 percent of public expendituhes on the sector. Table
1 shows the incra  in bealth spending durng the period between 1970 and 1991. Public
health care spending increased from 0.53 percent of GDP in 1970 to over 7 percent in 1986
and then fell to pre-war levels of 2.7 percent in 1991 before incasing in the last two years.
The 1993 health sector budget of US$77 million equivalent accounts for 4.4% of GDP. In
per capita terms, health spending rose from just under US$8 in 1970 to over US$65 in 1986
and decreased significanty afwards during the late 1980s. The 1993 public health budget
of US$18 per capita is sfill higher than that of any other Cental American countries etcept
Costa Rica (US$120). Despite these relatively high spening levels, the health gains have
been limited and the quality of care has declined significauly in recent years. In response to
the increasing deficiencies in the public system, private spending has increased in the past
several years. Nicaguan fmilies spend over 2 percen of total family imcome on health;
estmates indicate that private spending has icreased fom 2 percent of GDP in 1980 to
about 4 percent in 1992.
Table 1
PUBLIC HEALTH CARE SPENDING, 1970-1991
v-=-e e5! _ _ _ _- Public Health    Public Hedth  Per Capita Pubfic
Year    GDP Per Capita    Expendituis Eexeitums    Heolth Expend.
(US$, 1988)      % GDP        (US$ million,    (US$, 1988)
l~        .                                 1988)1i
1970             1945            0.53           14.50          7.92
1975             1634            1.16     -    40.75           18.95
1978             1581            0.70          26.67           11.07
1979             1130            1.89          56.38          21.36
1980             1147            3.20          100.20          36.7
1981             1171            5.00          167.45         58.55
1982             1124            5.20          173.01         55.71
1983             1137            4.90          170.48         51.94
1984             1082            4.80          164.12         51.94
1985             1003            6.00          196.79         60.18
1986              921            7.10          221.72          65.39
1987              919            4.80          137.59          39.31
1988              745            7.80          210.36          58.11
1989              700            5.00          131.08          35.00
1990              651            2.78           70.40          18.21
1991   7          661            2.72           67.50           16.9
Sounles: MOH, -Objectives, Strti*es and Priorities in EIenma Resoutces-.



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                  Page 2 of 10
2.    Aflocatlon of ISnancal PRsu . The 1993 MOH budget allocations are shown in
figure 1. Low wage levels in the MOH have limited oerall spending on salaries. In 1989,
salaries represented only 32 percent of the MOH spending; slight increases in recent years
have now aised this to a budgeted 38 percent in 1993. Most of the remaining resources are
used to purchase pharmauticals. In the past seveal years, efforts by the MOH have
resulted in a sharp decline in expenditures on phamaceuticals and supplies, from nearly 60
percent of the MOH budget in 1989 to roughly 30 percent in 1993. Consumers spend an
estimated additional US$5 per person on average on pharmaceuticals in the private sector.
Furthermore, improvements in the procurement of pharmaceuticals has reduced the need for
the MOH to divert resources from the imvestment and maintenance budget to finance
emergency purchases of drugs and supplies. These emergency purchases along with overall
budget constaints limited spending on investment and maintenance to under 3 percent of
MOH spending during the 1980s. However, as a result of the improvements in the
pharmaceutical subsector and more rational spending, in general, the investment and
maintenance budget share have increased to about 9 percent and 1 percent, respectively, in
the last 2 years.
3.    Despite real declines in financial
resources to the health sector (see Mible 2),  Ministry of Health
the distribution of spending between the  1993 Budgetary Allocations
prima  and hospital levels has remained
frly constaX,. Primy   health care
sening has increased from 22 percent in
1981 to 35 percen in 1992, while                            7
allocations to public hospitals have
remained nearly consta, rising slightly
from 45 percent in the early 1980s to S0
percent in 1992.          ::-__
4.    Sources of Revnues. Health care                                    14S
is financed by budgtay  allocations from
the cental government, social security                    . -.-..
contibuions and international aid        On& S e hwiws ent
oranizations. The budgety allocations,      'U                       9%
which account for approximately 70 percent
of the health sectr income, are financed
primarily by sales taxes on goods and    Trfers incudes, Inter ala, pensins, overtme,
services and, on a smaller scale, reven  and social securty premkims
from income taxes. INSSBI resources cover
benefits for approximately 250,000
employees, or 35 percent of the economically activ population. The social security
revenues are financed through a tripartite contribution that consists of payroll taxes paid by
the worker and the employer and a govenmet subsidy. While the total contribution,
including pensions, ranges from 8.5 percent tD 17 percent, depending on the industry and
gegrphical location, only 9 percent is budgeted for health care. For health insurance
premia, workers contribute 4 percen of salaried income; at the same time, employers are
obligated to contnibute an additonal 4 perce  of the wkers' salay. In practice, however,



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 3 of 10
the MOH is unable to distinguish between INSSBI affiliates and those covered solely by the
MOH; furthermore, a lack of information on the cost of providing services and inadequacy
of cost-recovery mechanisms currently prevent the MOH from collecting for services
provided to INSSBI members. The MOH has started discussions with INSSBI, which is
reforning its health care insurance, with a view to purchasing health services for its affiliates
from the MOH and the private sector. Teclical assistance would be provided by the project
to support these efforts by the MOH and INSSBI. A significant part of the MOH services
are financed by extnal sources. While these resources are generally directed toward
investments such as hospital rehabilitation and equipment, primary health care programs
including vertical programs to combat specific diseases have also been funded by
international donors. The 1993 budget includes an estimated US$ 22 million, or 30 percent
of the MOH budget, in external aid. Additional revenue is generated through the use of
cost-recovery in the hospitals. Hospitals are free to set prices and to maintain any revenue
received from the sale of services. As a result, many hospitals generate between 5 and 10
percent of total budgetary allocations from user fees on service such as X-rays and laboratory
exams. This effort is significant and represents a major change from the previous
Govement where all health care services were free. It is a transition toward the present
Government's objective of about 20-30 percent total cost recovery (as a proportion of total
MCH budget) that would be achieved once INSSBI's health insurance system is implemented
and hospital services are purchased from the MOH. This would be a reasonable target as it
would cover services with a significant private good content benefitting non-poor patients.
Finally, direct payments are made to private sector physicians and private pharmacies to
purchase medicines when the public sector is stocked-out.
5.    An important source of financial resources for the health sector is municipal revenues.
Although the Nicaraguan government has not yet decentralized the financing of public
services, recent legislation that gives municipalities greater autonomy is a first step toward
fiscal federalism. Under that legislation, municipal goverments collect revenue generated
from user fees on publicly provided services such as water and electricity. Although they
remit 70 percent of the income to the central level, the income represents an important
source of revenue for the local governments. In addition, the municipal governments collect
a variety of other fees that also generate sizable income. In the municipality of Boaco, for
example, the central govemment allocation to the municipality amounts to only US$200 per
month while the municipality generates approximately US$20,000 monthly through the two
rvenue mechanisms cited above. The municipality is free to use the money it raises to
finance any activity. Other important sources of resources available to the health sector are
in-kind payments. These transelrs come in the form of donations of physical materials such
as bricks to consruct a new health post, in the form of donations of manual labor and even
financial resources that are provided by organizations ranging from religious orgnizations to
non-goverment organizations. The proximity of these revenue sources to the users
dramatically increascs the effectiveness of the spending as the expenditure directly
corresponds to local needs.
B. Project Economic Benefits
6.    The Nicaraguan health system consumes a large number of financial resources, given
the size of the population and the level of care provided. At nearly 4.4 percent of GDP,



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 4 of 10
Nicaragua is the second largest spender on health in Centrl America behind Costa Rica (8.4
percent). Health expenditures reached over US$65 per person during mid 1980s, but the
impact of these expenditures has been impaired by a number of inefficiencies in the health
sector, such as a high unit cost of health services resulting from an inadequate PHC model
and other inefficiencies in the system such as poor purchasing and distribution of
pharmaceuticals. Many of these issues would be addressed by the proposed project.
7.    Although it is difficult to quantify the impact of the investment due to the long-term
effects, the following section attempts to quantify the economic benefits that would accrue as
a result of the project interventions. The economic benefits can be classified into those that
result from changes to the current model and will produce savings in the unit cost of
producing health and those that increase the revenue generating capacity of the MOH and
will, therefore, introduce new income to the MOH budget. Specifically, the benefits can be
broken-down in to the following categories: (i) unprovements in the pharmaceutical
procurement, distribution and prescribing practices; (ii) reductions in the per unit cost of
providing primary health care services; and (iii) improved maintenance and rehabilitation of
medical equip,ment that would defer capital investments, reduce operating costs, produce
more predictable output levels, lower unit costs and increase public satisfaction. On the
income side, the project would support measure to increase MOH revenues, these include,
inter alia, increased cost-recovery at the secondary and teriary level and full cost pricing of
services provided to INSSBI affiliates. Although more difficult to quantify, additional
benefits would be realized as a result of decentralization. These benefits would likely
manifst in the form of improvements in the allocative efficiency of the health sector as
SILAIS directors are given the autonomy and'the financial resources to allocate their
resources according to the needs expressed at the local level.
8.    Economic Benefits of Improvemepts in the Pharmaceutical Subsector. The
proposed project would address the major shoricomings in the procurement, distribution and
management of pharmaceuticals and supplies in the MOH system. The MOH and a team of
experts in the pharmaceutical sector have estimated that roughly 70 percent of every dollar
spent on pharmaceuticals is wasted due to the mnmerous problems in the system. Figure 1
shows how these losses are allocated among the varous prblem areas.
9.    The project will use these figures as baseline data in order to evaluate the progress of
the project during implementation. The project would help reduce the cost of procuring
drugs and supplies and to increase the effectiveness, in terms of health status, of each dollar
spent on pharmaceuticals. The project would result in the following:
* 50% reduction in the fequency of stockouts
* 75% reduction in the average duration of stockouts
* 10% reduction in unit costs paid for pharmaceuticals and supplies
* 75 % reduction in losses due to product expiration and deterioration in storage
* 15% reduction in the operadng costs of the CIPS
* 20% reduction in inappropriate use, on both the demand and supply sides
10.   These estimates have been developed based on successfil experiences from the reform
of pharmaceutical logistcs systems in other developing counties. Assuming various degrees



NICARAGUA                               ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECrOR REFORM PROJECT                      Page S of 10
of success in attaining these
results, it is possible to       Lo and Inefftlloney In Drug Supply and Procurement
estimate the economic                (Sh  of Each US dollar spent Lost to Ineffclency)
benefits that would accrue to
the MOH as a result of the
proposed project investment.
The following table presents   . 7% /                          .
the annual and cumulative   .   .
savings that would accrue,
assuming a 30 percent, 50
percent or 80 percent project                     *
success rate. The trck                                      -_.
record of reforms already
imnplemented by the MOH                         |                          aeas. 
-oand INSSBI in 1993 and the ounry'                                          coai._
determination of these    .                                   _
institutcal   cuionsent a            o%/     _    *.
*   aaement  t implementato   
futnher reform point to a
potentially high success - rate.
However, given possible
disruptions or delays in             Z
project implementation linked
to the country's historically
delicate economic and
political situation, a 50
percent implementation         _____________________
success rate appears
reasonable.
Table 2
ESTIMATED SAVINGS RESULTING FROM SELECTED PROJECT INTERVENTIONS
(US$)
PlftAnmalS  saving (US,)
ll    ( saccording to success of pwojea imetheon
Area of Economic Loss  LoDssPr US dollar      30%              50%             80%
Spent
Expiration and Loss       0.18              445,500          742,500        1,188,000
High Unit Costs            0.10             330,000          550,000         880,000
High Administrative Costs  0.02              38,500           97,500         156,000
inappropriawe Use and     0.35              231,000          385,000         616,000
Prescribing
Total Annual Saving                       1,064,500         1,775,000      2,840,000
Somme: Management Sciences for Health (MSH) and IDA estinates
II.   Even using conservtive estimates and a range of success rates in achieving these
targets, the project would produce signficant economic returns for the health sector.



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECrOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 6 of 10
Assuming 30 percent, 50 percent or 80 percent success in reaching the desired results,
savings of US$1.1 million, US$1.8 million or US$2.8 million, respectively, would be
produced. As a percentage of the MOH's yearly expenditure on pharmaceuticals these
benefits range from just under 10 percent to over 25 percent. These additional resources
would allow the MOH to expand services to at risk groups that do not currently have access
and to improve the quality and convenience of care for those that do. Additional savings
have already been realized in the area of selection. As a result of reductions and
modifications to the MOH's essential drugs list during project preparation, between US$1
million and US$2 million would be saved annually.
12.   Economic Benefits of the Integrated Primary Health Care Model. The lack of
unit and program costs at the primary level makes it difficult to derive quantitative estimates
of cost savings resulting from the integration of services and the increased efficiency in the
PHC model. The project would support the integration of vertical programs which deliver,
in separate rooms and on separate occasions, immunizations, growth monitoring, nutrition
education and pre- and post-natal care and family planning. Moreover, the project would
strengthen the capacity of the primary level to resolve basic health problems, thereby
eliminating the need to pass to the next, more costly, level of care, and aim to improve
financial resource allocation by emphasizing the most cost-effective interventions.l'
13.   The integration of primary health care programs would reduce the unit cost of
providing services, such as immuniztions and family planning, as the amount of staff time
required would be significantly reduced. In addition, the patients would realize significant
savings as the opportunity cost of seeking care would be reduced. Patients would no longer
need to return 5 or 6 times to receive various tpes of care because most preventive services
would be delivered at the same time. This would also have a positive impact on the cost of
delivering services at the secondary and tertiary levels. For example, a Manolo Morales
study found that 70 percent of emergency room patients had no medical need to bypass the
PHC facility. The cost of treatment at the emergency room is significantly higher than the
cost of treatment at the primary level. The project would improve the ability of the pimary
level to resolve these problems and, therefore, reduce the financial burden on the secondary
and tertiary level facilities.
14.   These interventions would have important financial implications for the health care
system. The magnitude of the savings can be approximated by assuming that the sum of all
project interventions related to the introduction of an integrated PHC model would result in a
5 to 10 percent reduction in the unit cost of delivering primary health care services. Given
that the MOH allocated roughly US$18 million to primary care in 1992, a conservative 5 to
10 percent savings would produce savings of between US$900,000 and US$1.8 million.
15.   Maintenance. Field surveys completed in 1991 indicate that as much as 70 percent
of the equipment in health facilities has not been properly maintained and over 40 percent of
1I Evidence from El Salvador indicates that the cost of hospital rehydration is US$47 per unit, whereas
oral rehydation, which.is equally or more effective, costs only US$0.82 per unit. Fmily Health
Services Prolect Paper. USAID/El Salvador. 1990.



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECr                   Page 7 of 10
many types of equipment do not function. The paucity of data on the unit cost and the
operatng costs of using various maches makes it difficult to quantify the returns to
investing in maintenance and new invesments to improve efficiency in the health sector.
Nonetheless, the following section sketbhes out the various costs associated with improper
maintenance and investment.
16.  Inadequate maintenance leads to the deterioration of the health sector inrastuce,
which in rn affects the production of health services and consumers. On the supply side,
the costs of the neglect in maintenance are: (i) additional variable operating costs caused by
the use of inefficient methods of provision. As an example, poorly functioning equipment at
a health clinic may tequire transportation, by ambulance, to a hospitl where equipment is
functioning, but the unit cost is higer than at the clinic (in many cases, the unit cost of the
ambulance service could be greater than one year of matece); (ii) higher investment
requirements to compensate for the decline in availability of existing capacity and in their life
span; and (iii) potentially lost revemnes as facilities are unable to collect user fees on
equipment that is not functioning.
17.   On the demand side, the deterioration of bealth infrstructure results in subsial
costs, both economic and social, to the users of the services. The costs of poor maintenance
to the users of the public system can have the form -uf higher costs as inadequate facilities
forces consumers to look elsewhere for care, thus incring additional transportation costs as
well as the opportnity cost of seeldkg care elsewhere. Additionally, consumers may defer
treatment or preventive diagnosis thereby producing greater expenses for the public health
care system at a later stage as the condition must be treated curatively; or, consumers may
suffer discomfort and il-health as a result of the unavailability of appropriate equipment.
The poor suffer the most from inadequate maintenance in public facilities as they often lack
rsources to compenate for unreliable services. That is, the poor are less likely to have the
economic resources to use private facilities or to have access to trnsportation to access the
next higher level of the health care system.
18.   The benefits of good mainenance accrue directy to the health facilides concerned in
terms of deferred capital invtments, reduced operating costs, more predictable output
levels, lower unit costs and greater public satisfaction. Proper maintenance and new
imvestments are particularly relevant under the present situation of severe budget constraius
on the availability of financial resources. The project would also help increase the MOH
project evaluation capacity, which would help avoid: (i) problems in the selection of
equipment because of lack of adequate consideration of resource constraints such as foreign
exchange, skills and facilities to service and repair and (ii) reliance on expensive technology
that is not cost-effective.
19.   Potential User Fee Rel ues from Cost Recovery. IDA macroeconomic projections
for Nicaragua predict a period of slow growth, a high extemal debt burden and restricted
spending on high recurrent cost sectors, such as health. Without compensating actions, these
fictors could reduce or limit the budgetary allocations available to the ministry of health and
seriously affect the health of the population. The financing problems are exacerbated by the
fact that external aid, which currently accounts for nearly 30 percent of public health
spending, could st to be reduced soon.



NICARAGUA                              ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                      Page 8 of 10
20.   Tb redress this issue, the MOP is seeking to reduce inefficiencies in the current
system (notably by increasing the efficiency of pharmaceutical supply and introducing a more
cost-effective primary health care model) and to search for altenative means of generating
revenue or reducing costs. The need to augment financial resources has led some hospital
administrators to instiute an unofficial policy of user fees in some hospitals. These revenues
serve as important source of income for many of the hospitals in Nicaragua. In a sample of
four hospials analyzed for which data is available, user fees revenues accounted for between
2 percent and 5 percent of the hospital's total annual budget.1Y Data collected indicate that
these revenues are often used, inter alia, to finance incentive payments for doctors and
mues that service private rooms in hospitals, to purchase pharmaceuticals which are
unavalable fmnn cental supply or to make repatrs to the facilities and equipment.
Table 3
POTENTIAL REVENUE TO BE GAINED FROM COST RECOVERY
(US$)
fetage of Patients PaWiWg Fees
(according to success of project iaplemention)
Type of Sevice                          30%                50%                80%
,"OW.Jiatn (US$)
Emorgmq Consultation (US$2)          490,454.40         817,424.00        1,307,878.40
Chaeoel Conuwltaon (US$ 1.00)         46,577.10          77,628.50          124,205.60 
SpcaUtCnYdtation (S 1.70)        219,119.51         365,199.18         584,318.69
Serology MS$1.79)                     10,560.98          17,601.64          28,162.62
Microbiology (US$1.70)                14,467.87          24,113.11          38,580.98
X-Rays (US$1.70)                     143,537.21         239,228.69         382,765.90
lgCt7uL                    ~~~~~~~924,717.07  1,541,195.12      2,465,912.00
% ~lTOW Hospital EVpen~tuni               3.00               5.00               8.00
Soues: Mission estiae.
Note: Exap  rate: 6.1 Cordobas per US$
21. In order to ejtahliqh a policy of charging for health services including hospitalization,
outpatient visits, lab exams, X-rays and some pharmaceutical products, the MOH has
proposed a number of rforms. These reforms would be supported under the proposed
project and though comlementary assistance from USAID and other active donors. The
proposed user fees, which would be implemented at the secondary and ertiary level facilities
ould represent a significant source of al ernative finance for the MOH. Using a fee
schedle prposed by the MOH in early'1993, the following table presents rough estimates of
the potial revees that could be derived through moderate cost recovery.
' These estimates are based on exrpolatons from a 3 month period. Revnue was generated from user
fes on servces ragig from iat  treament, priced between US$2 and US$20, to laboratory exams
priced betwen US$1 and US$20. Alugh the study did not explicidy discuss the possibilit that us
es were too high for some patient, thus liming acoess to services, tere does not appear to be
evidene to that effect



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECIUR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 9 of 10
22.   Authorities in the Nicaragan health sector estimate that between 40 percent and 50
percent of the population bas the economic capacity to pay fees for health services. The
table shows sensitivity analysis for charges on either 30 percent, 50 percent or 80 percent of
the patient population. Table 3 shows the range of options for the number of patients that
are able to pay the set fees and the revenue that would be generated under each sceniario.
Even with minor charges for services such as X-rays (US$1.70) and general consultation
(US$1.00), Nicaraguan hospitals would be able to generate a significant amount of revenue
that could be used to improve the quality of service. Using seven basic service categories,
including, inter alia, lab exams, X-rays, and inpatient and outpatient visits, hospitals wowld
generate between 3 percent and 8 percent of total MOH budgetary allocations. Actual
experience in hospital cost recovery shows that these numbers are realistic. A comparison of
the projected revenues based on the above methodoaliqy with the actual revenue for four
hospitals currently collecting user fees shows that tNo of the hospitals are currently colk.-'ng
a greater level of revenue than projected above while the other surveyed two report actual
revenues of half the projected income.
23.   Development of Payment M           Between INSSBI and MOH and Degn of
Workmen's C1tn I Race. Uinder the current health care system, it is
impossible to distinguish between INSSBI affiliates and the beneficiaries of the public
system, and, in addition, there is no distinction in the type or quality of service that the two
groups receive. The lack of mechanisms to purchase health care services from third party
providers, primarily the MOH, is a significant drain on public resources as the app ly
300,000 beneficiaries of the health insurance system are able to use the public system at no
cost. The project would provide technical assistance to support the design and development
of two key areas: (i) the design of payment mechanisms, whereby INSSBI reimbures the
MOH for services provided to INSSBI members; and (ii) the design of workman's
compensation insurnce.
lTble 4
POTlENTIAL REVENUE FROM INSSBI
FOR THE PURCHASE OF MOH SERVCES
(US$)
Type  doce                Estiatd Transfer
Outpatient Care                            1,084,208
InatientCare                              4,761,863
Ailiai Services (Lab  m,  X-rys,          18,694,436
Ipharmaceicals and supplies, ec)
TOTAL                                     24,540,507
24.   Table 4 provides INSSBI estimates of the resources that would be trn d from
INSSBI to MOH using the new payment mechanisms. It asumes that, duing the project
life, INSSBI would purchase most of its health semces from the MOH gin tie current
limited supply from the pnvate sector. Revenues from INSSBI would exceed US$24 million
and would, terefore, constitute an important revenue source for the MOH. The project
would help develop mechanisms to calcula  the value of the services provided and to ensure



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                  Page 10 of 10
collection, and would thus make an important contribution to the financial stability of the
MOH.
25.   With regard to workmends compensation insnce, the project would provide
technical assistance to implement a plan to protect Nicaraguas workers against work-related
accidents. This would be preventive in nature by mitigating risk in the work place, and also
curative by providing mechanisms to ensure treatment once the injury occurs. Although it is
not possible to quantify the monetary value of this investment, it is clear that the
development of an explicit policy and insurance program would redistribute the financial
burden of these risks. The MOH, which currently covers the injuries and accidents that occur
in the work place, would be relieved of the financial obligation to cover work-related
accidents and injuries as employers would begin to bear a greater share of the financial
burden. This would free-up valuable MOH resources that could be used to improve MOH
bealth care services.
Tible 5
ALLOCATION OF PROJECT ECONOMIC BENEFITS
TO THE EXTENSION OF MOH HEALTH SERVICES
Alative Scenaios to Extend Health Coverage
Low (30%)       Medium (50%)        High (80%)
Additional Papulation Covered  270,000          450,000            720,000
Cost of Extnding Coveae    US$4.9 milion                        US$13.0 million
Total Expected Project Benefits  US$9.9 million  US$16.5 million  US$26.5 million
Asumptions:  Current cover is 70% of the population or 3 million.
brget Population Coverage: 90% or 3,900,000
Cost of Health Care: US$18 per capita
26.   The proposed project would result in overall improvements in efficiency and quality
in the delivery of health care services. Many of the proposed project interventions would
also produce economic benefits which would free up additional resources that the MOH
could use to expand coverage and improve quality. Table 5 reflects the cost of using these
additional remsources to extend services to the estimated 30 percent of the population currently
without access to health services. Assuming that the additonal resources could be used to
provide services to the 900,000 people without coverage after the last year of the project, the
followig table demonstrates that the expected economic benefits derived from the project
surpass fte revenues reuired to finance the expansion. Extending coverage to 30 percent of
the taget population of 900,000 would cost the MOH an estmated additional US$4.9
million, while under the same conservative 30 percent estimate, the total expected economic
benefits from the project could reach US$9.9 million, leaving an estimated US$5.0 million to
finance imp       in the quality of services provided by the MOH. Further expanding
coverage to 50 percent and later 90 percent of the target population would cost the MOH
US$8.1 million and US$13.0 million, ewectively; both of these would be amply covered by
the epWcted economic benefits fom the ptoject.



| National Bealtnister of                                     1 31111
Poliy  & Institutio  Al                                 Legal
Development                                         Infor2ation Systems
Social Participation                                                             I
External Cooperation
Scetary                                                                   
Generar
Coi{mumic  Pubtoison &              |t~ Health  P .S1AIS &
.ie        ste    or                                     t        m                                   ice-iknmster for1                               
D e e t eal ini5te er hc                     c                    _                             _   D inuistration &vestm nt
Surveillancehac                                                        SAnizatio           ot             a e ce
I CoSILAIS   Hospitalsti
Na~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ;;tioa  Bed I 4; t
Spply            Fiace         baaea               eore
| unsc | DevlealB teh      n     o  t rlpmegt                                           Ca         |         IPS             Bulget      |     lnestsett. 
| iseae        Prevention |      evices     |SupptlCies        D evelo  aten      Rsach                     Supply          Accoucting    |Maintenance
Treasury
SILAIS & Hospitals                                                                       



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX S
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 1 of 12
TERMS OF REFERENCE
NSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. Deenthalizaton of Budget
1.    The consultants would make a proposal to modify, adjust or substitute mechanisms
and standards for sectoral budget planning, perfonnance, output and evaluation. This
proposal would:
(a)   analyze the accounting and budget performance system, including:
* its effects on efficient use of resources, on quantitative and qualitative aspects
of health care, and on cost management;
* degree of compliance with defined objectives and goals;
* basis used for calculation;
* criteria used in budget plannmg and resource allocation;
*         .       * data support systems;
* identification of problem areas and their respective elements;
* monitoring, control and evaluation mechwniSmS uscd; and
* relationship to asset accounting systems;
(b)   assess current legal standards and restrictions (including Government, MOF
and MOH internal standards and restrictions);
(c)   review standards and procedures related to budget performance, and propose,
if necessary, changes to such standards or incorporation of new stndards;
(d)   design a system to monitor the management and transer of intra-sectoral
financial resources, describing the flow of resources in the sector:
* from the MOF to the MOH and/or to the SILAIS;
* from MOH headquarters to the SILAIS;
* from the SILA1S to prmary and secondary health care institutions; and
*       * from the MOH to laboratories with which it has agreements;
(e)   design financial resource control mechanisms for the various budget headings,
subheadings and line items: staff and non-staff services, inputs, investment and
maintenance, transfers and others;
(f)   design simple monitoring indicators:
* on process: how to monitor progress in the financial decentralization process;
* on results: control indicators and budget evaluation, such as debt indicators,
*          .   .  indicators on tmnfer between line items, correlation of expenditures between
line items, etc;



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 5
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                  Page 2 of 12
(g)   help prepare instruments and tools for resource transfers, i.e., operational
manuals and forms rquired for pla , performance, output and evaluation. These
instruments would be an input, consistent with the MIS to be designed under the
project;
(h)   determine quantity and qualifications of human resources and equipment
required for implementing the system, particularly with regard to SILAIS departments
or offices which will be in charge of local-level budget operations as required by
headquartrs;
(i)   define training program, indicating content, dates, costs, and target population;
and
O)   produce an implementation schedule as well as a calculation of investment and
operating costs required to undertake the above reforms.
2.    The consultants would provide a detailed explanation of methodology, principles and
criteria used in defining proposed lines of action. Three person-months of international
consultants and 20 person-months of local consultants would be required. The assignment
would start in March 1994, would last about seven months, and would cost about
US$60,000.
B. hnprovement of Resource Allocation System
3.    The consultants would help implement an improved resource allocation system that
would be designed in the following two stages:
4.    Resource Allocation System Based on Corrected Per Capita Criteria. In this first
stage, the consultants would help design a corrected per capita resource allocation system.
This would include:
(a) definition of corrected per capita based on the budget;
(b)   definition of a preliminary population base for the per capita system;
(c)   development of criteria for payments to Managtua hospitals directly controlled
by MOH; and
(d)   establishment of criteria for the allocation of resources from the SILAIS to
health facilities.
5.    Resource Allocaton System Based on Per Capia Cost of Service Delivery. In this
second stage, a comprehensive study on the design and implementation of the allocation of
resources system would be undertaken, including the following aspects:
(a)   Des4:ription of agents participating in allocation mechanism:
(i)  technical definition of the agents involved in the resource allocation
mechanism (priiaiy, secondary and tertiary levels);



NICARAG3UA                              ANNEX 5
HEALTH SECITOR REFORM PROJECT                      Page 3 of 12
(ii)   mechanism through which an agent can join the resource allocation
mechanism (such as private agents with whom agreements may be reached);
and
(iii)  survey of the health agencies that are part of the SILAIS care network,
characterized with minimum indicators describing their capability to provide
services;
(b)   Per capita calculation. To design the per capita calculation, the consultants
would:
(i)    establish a comprehensive basket of curative, preventive and
rehabilitation benefits corresponding to the primary care level and compatible
with the Nicaraguan health care model. An alternative differentiating between
primary and secondary health care in the payment mechanism would be
evaluated. The possibility of adopting the per capita mechanism for the
transr of resources from the SFLAIS to health facilities would be assessed;
(ii)   value the basket defined above to cover the costs of an average
provider of the first and second care levels;
(iii) evaluate the alternative of per capita differentiation through corrective
fctors for populations in distinct bio-medical risk situations, poverty levels, or
eventual differences of urban-nrral costs;
(iv)   carry out simulations of the financial impact on the MOH's budget to
determine the effect of setting the per capita at different levels;
(v)   ensure that the methodology for the per capita development would be
flexible to allow future adjustments, such as the exclusion or inclusion of
benefits or health progmas at the per capita level or the readjustment of the
per capita due to variations in the cost of health services;
(vi)  define the intervals at which resources should be transferred from the
central level to the decentralized units. Special attention would be placed on
the coordination between the transfer of resources and the transfer of resources
from the primary level agents to other health system levels;
(vii) design a per capita mechanism for the transition period solely on the
basis of the budget,11 but incorporating the corrective factors mentioned in
point (iii) above; and
(viii) propose a timetable for the redistribution of inter-SILAIS resources as a
result of the implementation of the assignment system.
(c)    Definition of the population base. The consultants would:
./ The most simple per capita calculation is the result of dividing the MOH budget by the population it has to
asist. Tbis simple wcise can be complemented wi the inclusion of corrective factrs. However, in spite of
the awimnfirItv nf thA xanie nneinational- administrtie and nolitical problems are imporlant since they would



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 5
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 4 of 12
(i)   help deemine the approximate population assisted by each of the
health units as well as the main demographic and epidemiological
characistics of their users; to that effect, they would use the best available
iformation such as existng local census undertaken by the SILAIS or other
information based on an updating of the national census;
(ii)   on the basis of the information obtained through the above demographic
study, propose, if necsary, the redefinition of the number of health facilities
under SILAIS administration or, if justified, a change in the geographical
coverage of SILAIS;
(iii)  define the concept of beneficiary to differentiate the MOH beneficiary
population from that of INSSBI; and
(iv)  indicate the mechanism for identifying beneficiaries within a given
health facility or area and determine the degree of affiliation freedom of the
beneficiary;
(d)   T_hnsaction between the SILAIS and  fr   ystem. With respect to payment
of benefits to be made among the different agents within the system, the consultants
would:
(i)   develop a rate or health benefit tariff schedule to allow the
standardiztion of procedures and benefits which serve as the basis for
determ g their vWalue. This schedule would be compatible with the health
care model developed; and
(ii)  coordinate the referral system between SILAIS with the per capita
system, especially with reference to:
[a]   defining the suitability of a system of payments between SILAIS
on the basis of the development of an enllment system;
[bl   propose an easily implementable administrative procedure for
payment of benefits between SILAIS, both for cross-referrals of the
population and benefit transactions; and
lcl   Evaluate whether the alternative of free prices is feasible in
view of [i] market imperfections, in particular monopolistic or
oligopolistic situations that imply the under-provision of services and
[ii] uneven redistribution of resources (from or to the centers of greater
complexity);
(e)  IHealth and administration indicators and incentives. The consultants would:
(i)   identify health adminisation and administrative-financial indicators for
monitoring and control of SILAIS administration;
(ii)  identify process indicators, health data and/or impact that permit the
evaluation of health administration of the SILAIS and bealth establishments;
and
(iii) design an incentive system for financial assignment which uses
perfomance monitoring indicators;



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 5
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                   PAge 5 of 12
(f)   &WmmIaiAgANt= poi. The consultants would analyze and propose
policy options to iegulate the managment of surpluses resulting from the operation of
the different health providing organaons (reinvestment of surpluses, salary
ncaes, etc.)
(g)   SndAd 1"  intm s The consultants would develop standard legal
instrments to be used as the basis for the tsactions or resource transfers between
the different providers contemplated in the assignment model, in particular in the later
stage of incorporation of private prvders;
(h)   Le  reform r rmoents. The consultants would determine all the legal
reforms that need to be undertaken to implement the assignment of resources
mchanism, identifying major and minor legal modifications;
(i)   Timtable for implementation of mechanism for allocating financial resources.
The consultants would propose a timetable for the implementation of the mechanism
for assigmng financial resources that takes into account legal and organizational
aspects as well as internal coherence of the model based on the modernization criteria;
j)   Adjsnent to MOH organizational stucture. The consultants would:
(i)   review the MOH's organizadon in its participation as partner in the
new decentralized scheme and modalities in its role as purchaser of services
and evaluator of providers;
(ii) establish the mechanisms and administrative structures required by the
MOH to determine need and demand for services that would be provided by
the different service providers;
(iO)  detemine the legal, administative and institutional factors that could
limit the implementaton of the allocation mechanism; and
(iv) identify the mechanisms and negotiating documents and definition of
SILAIS budgets under the new financing scheme;
(k)   3kinig. The consulta  would:
(i)   help prepare operational manuals sunmanig operation of the
assignment mechanism to be managed by MOH staff at the different levels:
central, SILAIS and health establishments; and
(ii)  tmain the top pmfessional staff and other personnel involved in the
adminitaion of the new system of assignment of rmsources at the MOH
central level and at the SILAIS headquarters.



NICARAGUA                               ANNEX S
HEALTH SECrOR REFORM PROJECT                       Page 6 of 12
Activities and Requirements for Impwvement of Resource Allocation System
Consultant Requiremets1'
stw ~      Acdvtivies      Duato    SW-UP        Lc      | ain         Cost
__________ ________________(monfth)   Month     LOca    Intrntina
Fi2st Stas -    Aooounti - redefinition  4       1         14          2         41
Stlnatheline   af budA
decetralSionBasic MOmitotf         3         1          6           1         19
Second Stop -  Defie3                            1         6          1.5        24
Corrected per  capita on budgtay basis
capita basis    Define base            6         1         18         0.5        32
Criteria br payment to   1         1          1         0.5        6.5
Managua hoWitals
Criteria for assignment  1         I          1         0.5        6.5
*om SLAIS to facilities
Third Stage -   Comprehensive stdy    8          8         48          4         112
Per capita cost
of service   I4l_i6on                 4                    12          1         28
deliwvy         _      
Notes: 1/    Conswltant cost have been established at US$1,500/mo. for local consultans and
US$10,000/mo. for intnational consultas
a'   eCosts refered to design and equipment for the inAnnation sstem should be caed to the
dcentalization cmpon, inkrmatics subcompone.
C  Cost Accountn System
6.    The consultants would:
(a)   review local or international expeence in cost accounting in health and
recommend which methodology (including possible modification) would be best
adapted to the needs of Nicaragua;
(b)   define the services to be produced and those that will be sold to the public or
private sectors; provide codes, names, and technical definitions, tking into
consideration the need to break down services (sufficiendy but not excessively as it
would complicate the implementtion f the system);
(c)    design a costing methodology hat would be tansnt and easily replcable in
hospitals;
(d) develop a database to determine total costs of each service defined above by
adding costs of varioUs inputs or intermediate services used in producing a given
service;
(e)   develop a methodology to price services in function of or independently from
the cost of services and price all services;
(f)    apply the methodology to a representative sample of hospitals;



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 5
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECr                  Page 7 of 12
(g)   check methodology by comparing expected total revenues of each sample
hospital to its actual total operating costs; and
(h)   design a system to monitor hospital costs and prepare operational manuals; the
system should provide the elements for an efficient and periodical adjustment of
prices of services.
7.    The study would rquire three tnonths of international consultants and 54 months of
local consultants. It is expected to start in March 1994 and be completed in December 1994.
It would cost about US$150,000.
A  Service Provision Arngements with SIAIS
8.    Service provision arrangements would be used as a tool to reflect the commitment
between the MOH and the SILAIS on the type and volume of services to be rendered and the
corresponding financial, human, and capital resources required to provide those services.
Performance, which would be linked with allocation of tesources, would be monitored
through mutually agreed upon annual aigets using a set of indicators being developed under
the project. A simplified system would be implemented since start-up. During the first
year, the project would provide technical assistance to help review and improve the design
and implementation of service pwvision arrangements.
9.    The consultants would:
(a) review the complete system of indicators used for monitoring SILAIS
perf-ormance and select 5-10 indicators that could be added to the ones already used in
the current simplified version of servie provision arrangements, takdng into
consideration need for indicators to be: (i) easily measurable in function of
information systems existing or to be developed; (ii) fully acceptable as objective
indicators of performance by the central MOH office and by SILAIS Directors; and
(iii) designed in a well-balanced package to avoid adverse results (e.g., production of
certain services beyond what is necessary for a given epidemiological profile, and
under-production of other serAvces as a result of the influence of poorly designed
indicators);
(b)   review design of service provision arrangement and propose methodology for
preparation and negotiation of service provision arrangements;
(c)   assess needs for technical assistance that the SILAIS may need to improve
preparation and implementation of service provision arrangements;
(d) design a system to monitor indicators, specifying information to be measured
periodically and source of data; assess to what extent the system can be computerized,
estimte software and hardware needs (if applicable), and ensure complementarity or
integration with the rest of the MIS;
(e) design an operational manual defining the modalities, responsibilities, and
deadlines for presenting, tansmitg, and verifying monitoring indicators (e.g., for
cene of vaccination coage, the mamual would define vaccination for wnich



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 5.
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 8 of 12
disease, age of children vaccinated, number of times vaccinated, responsibility for
data collection at the SILAIS level, verification at the central level, frequency of
presentation of indicators, deadlines, feedback to SILAIS on quality of data presented,
etc.);
(f)   propose an implementation schedule for the implementation of the revised
system of service provision arrangements and evaluate the desirability of introducing
the new system through a pilot program in a few SILAIS; and
(g)   estimate detailed cost of implementation.
10.   The assignment would require one and a half months of international consultants and
15 months of local consultants. It is expected to start in March 1994 and be completed in
September 1994. It would cost about US$80,000.
E. Cost Recovery
11.   Due to the health sector's current budget restrictions, the MOH has started to
introduce cost recovery at the secondary level. In principle, each SILAIS should responsibly
review possible ideas and projects which, if imaginatively administered, may be used to
increase the institutions' recovery of internal resources without jeopardizing the public health
system's beneficiaries. As a result, the financial status of the SILAIS and facilities that
promote this type of policy would improve, together with the quality of care offered to their
beneficiaries. If not properly designed and implemented, however, this could anslate into a
deterioration in the volume and quality of care provided to beneficiaries. Thus, there is a
need to review the cost recovery system.
12.         To that effect, while providing detailed explanation of principles, criteria and
methodology used in defining proposed lines of action, the study would cover the following
elements:
(a)   a review of current cost recovery schemes and identify and determine
resources, organization and procedures involved, including cost and billing systewis,
(b)   an identification of legal, structural and procedural changes required to
implement the proposed lines of action; and
(c)   establishment of cost recovery targets in function of affordability (i.e., equity
consideration of patients' income level), actual cost of services delivered, and
budgetary considerations;
(d)   an estimate of investment and operadng costs for implementation of proposed
design.
F. Human Resources
13. Inventory and Analysis of Human Resources. This inventory is essential for the
MOH to take decisions regarding decentralization of personnel management. The consultans
would help comnlete and exoand the inventory of human resources to cover all MOH



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 5
'HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                  Page 9 of 12
the assistance of PAHO and GTZ in the  ree Managua SILAIS covering a total of
approximately 7,151 workers. Tb that effect, inquirers and data collectors would be
contracted, trained, and supervised by the SILAIS human resources administrators.
14.   The 16 rmaining SILAIS would be provided with the minimum computing equipment
to undertae the inventory and analyze the data which would build up the required capacity
to implement human resources administration in a decentralized form. The human resources
information sstem would then be linked to the MIS of the MOH. The survey is expected to
last two months and would cost about US$100,000.
15.   PlanIng and Training of Hwman Resources. The consultants would:
(a)   analyze and simplify the present structure of positions and prepare personnel
and operational manuals that would be used by the SILAIS to review and adjust the
mix and level of human resources required by each type of facility (health post,
medical post, health center, and hospital);
(b) analyze the present structure of salaries, benefits, and incentives and propose
an improved strucure which could be feasibly implemented under the current
budgetay system of the MOH;
(c)   propose a simple evaluation and promotion system geared toward improving
the productivity of MOH's human resources; define clear promotion criteria based on
merit and design the appropriate instruments to implement the promotion system;
(d)   propose simplifications in the overall human resources management;
(e)   undertake a study of the labor market in Nicaragua that would prepare the
basis of medium- and long-term reforms; the study would cover notably:
(i)   comparison of salaries and incentives between the public and private
sectors for some key categories (doctors, nurses, auxiliary nurses, health
technicians);
(ii)  review of areas with critical shortage of staff;
(iii) survey of nurses having left the MOH to analyze reasons for their
leaving government service, and assess changes required to make MOH work
more attractive for nurses; and
(iv) training requirements;
(f)   design a methodology for human resources planning that would provide the
necessary instruments to determine the quantity and quality of human resources
required by the MOH in the short-, medium-, and long-term;
(g).  analyze the legal framework governing human resources administration and
propose the legal changes and modifications required to implement a new model of
decentralized human resources management, including hiring and firing by the
SILAiS; and



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 5
HEALTH SECTIOR REFORM PROJECr                 Page 10 of 12
(h)   propose ways to regulate the teaching process and accredit teaching institutions
so as to improve the quality of graduates and adapt their skills to the future
requirements of the Nicaraguan health system.
16.   The above technical assistance would require t bout 25 person-months of international
consultants and 75 months of local consultants. The implementation would start in March
1994 and would be completed in March 1995. The estimated cost is US$300,000.
H. Management Information Systm
17. The consultants would help develop the MOH's data systems, focusing on solving
both the MOH's basic administrative and operational problems and issues related to financial,
administrative (including client services) and health service provision management in the
SILAIS. To develop some of these data system components, the SILAIS may be provided
with computer assistance, if necessary, to complete computer support by USAID.
18.   The MIS would collect and deliver data to and from the MOH, the SILAIS, CIPS,
and regional governments. To the extent possible, the sysm  would be interconnected to
allow communication among them.
19.   The consultans would:
(a) identify and quantify the resources, organization, methodology, and procedures
ivlvng in the existing MIS and undertake a diagnosis of the systems covering:
(i)   efflciencq of MIS regrding support to top management, resource
allocation, improvement in quality of service delivery, and cost-continment;
(ii) adequacy of MIS for support of objectives and targets defined by the
MOH;
(iii) identification of problem areas, monitoring and supervision
mechanisms;
(b)   propose a basic design of an MIS that would include administrative, financial,
and epidemiological aspects, to provide central support to the MOH's decentralization
process;
(c) develop an integrated MIS that covers the flow of aggregated data in the public
health system, yet kig into consideration the flexibility requied by various levels.
In particular, the MIS should cover the generation of information and its tanmission
between: (i) users in the central MOH office (Departments, CIPS, etc.); (ii) the
central MOH office and the SILAIS; (iii) the SILAIS and the PHC level; (iv) the
SILAIS and hospitals; (v) the SILAIS and municipalities (itms (ii) to (v) to be
supported by USAID);
(d) evaluate the necessity and feasibility of integrating the MIS between the two
levels of health care;



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 5
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                  Page 11 of 12
(e)   help the MOH determine equipment needed to support information systems
existing in the various departments of the MOH cental office; to detemine these
needs, systems should be considered in three areas as follows:
(i)   admiistraion
* reporting to central government
* payoll
* supplies inventory management
* public health system
(ii)   magement control
* accounting
* budgeting
* health status monitoring
* monitoring of service provision arrangements
(iii) communicaiions
* electronic mail
* word processing
* spreadsheets
* psenations
3 archives management
(f)   provide a detailed estimate of design and implemtion of identified systems
and of their operating costs, covering more specifically:
(i)   detailed esdmate of investment and operating costs of proposed MIS;
(ii)  proposal for monitonng and supervision mechanism and cost estimate;
(iii)  needs in human resources and equipment for implemenaton f MIS;
(iv)  traming programs necessary to support implementation, including target
beneficiaies and cost estimates; and
(v)   implementaton schedule for the above;
(g)   test the proposed methodology in one SILAIS to ensure its feasibility. This
would require the consultants to:
(i)   design a methodology that would help detennine in a flexible manner
the needs for changes in the current MOH information systms, and would
incorporate the human resources and equipment already existing in the MOH
in the design of the revised MIS; and
(ii)   est the methodology in one SILAIS, which would allow to undertake
the necsary corffeons before the system is expanded at the national level;
(h)   propose a eystem to evaluate the functioning of the MIS, including appropriate
monitoring ind1.ton; and
(i)   explain in detail the principles, criteria, and methodology used in the proposal.



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX S
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                  Page 12 of 12
20.   The above technical assistance wold equie two person-months of intetional
conslants and 24 months of local cosmlta. It would cost about US$100,000 and would
provide the preliminary design of a proposal for an MIS estimats4 to cost about US$800,000
includig software and hardware. The technical assistnce would start in April 1994 and
would be completed in September 1994, at which time the proposed design for MIS would be
discussed with IDA. Bidding woud then be undertaken.



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 6
HEALTH SFCOR REFORM PROJECr                     Page 1 of 4
RED)EFIED PRIMARY HEALTH CARE MODEL
1.    As part of its reform proam, the Government has redefined the method of delivery
of a minimum package of essential PHC sernices. Under the redefined model, the MOH
would ensure tht: (a) PHC services are managed at the local and not at the central level;
(b) preventive care is emphasized; and (c) vertical progams are integrted at the local level
to provide services more efficiently to beneficiaies.
2.    The PHC    atvenions covered by the model and supported by the project would
support are described below:
(a)   Acute B lay ni dons (ARI). The project would promote the strategy
of early detection by MOH staff and voluntay health workers, and graduated
treatment of acute respiratory infections accordig to MOH norms. Training would
be provided to help professional staff and volunteers: (i) recognize the danger signs
of severe ARI and decide wben it is necessary to take children to a health center for
treatment; and (ii) promote prvention tecbniques in the community. To complement
these efforts, oral antbiotics would be provided to help facilities meet the increased
demand for tratment expected to come from a better-educated public;
(b)   D.rbeal Diases The project would support preventi've educational
progms, coverig the use of potable water and waste disposal, hand washing, food
handling, and general hygiene education. The project would also finance essential
drugs and supplies, includig oal rehydration salts (ORS) for children under five
years of age who can be expected to have diarnheal episodes requiring rehydration.
The SILAIS would receive financing under the present project for the financing of
small water and sanitation projects, which would complement FISEs support in that
area;
(c) Mate=nal and Perinatal Mortality. The project would seek to increase the
timely use of both p _nt and postnatal care, to encourage women experiencing
high-risk pregnancies to gie birth in hospitals, and to promote fmily planmng and
birth spacing. Training of medical and paramedical personnel would emphasize the
essentials of safe motherhood, the diagnsis and treatment of sexually transmitted
diseases, the identification of high-risk preganies (in particular those that should be
referred to a health cener), and the improvement of bygienic practices in home
delivery. Tb complement these efforts, the project would finance equipment and
furnishings in hospitals and health centers for proper examinations and vimmins to
reinforce matemal health;
(d)    m            . Other donors (UNFPA and USAID) are already very active
in the family planning area (Annex 8). In particular, USAID contemplates the
financing of US$2.6 million of family planig commodities and contraceptives over
the nex three year at the national level. The project would support the integation
of family planning services into the regular acvities of the SILAIS, i.e., in the
*~~~~~ .    . -   *  -2  -1tt*  I- .  -  t-   .,-   _ +t    *Utm



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 6
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 2 of 4
contraceptives are properly used, the project would help train MOH personnel in
family planning counseling, method selection, and contra-indications,
(e)   Malnutition. The percentage of ifants visiting public health facilities is
currently about 22 percent and may include more well-babies than at-risk babies. The
project would help icrease the number of mothers who brng at-risk children to
health facilities and improve the quality of implementation of the growth-monitoring
progran. The project would help train voluntary health workers and midwives in
early detction and referral. The project would finance scales and measuring tapes
and would support training of MOH staff in growth monitoring. The project would
also finance supply of micronutrients (iron sulfate, foUic acid, iodine, vitamin A, and
multiple vitamins) to be delivered to pregnant and lactating women and children with
nutritional deficiencies. The project would support visits by heaith personnel to pre-
primary and primy schools to detect and treat micronutrient deficiencies and provide
deworming medicine. Furthermore, the project would promote breast feeding and
proper weaning practices by financing educational programs for mothers;
(t)   Immuno-pMIventible Diseases. The project would promote the underaking by
MOH personnel of routine immunization of patients who visit health facilities for
other treatments. Focus would be placed on children under-five and women in ferdle
age. Vaccines (principally for measles, polio, tuberculosis, diphtheria, whooping
cough, and tetanus) and supplies would be financed by USAID; and
(g) Tuberculosis and Malaria. These programs would be focused on the SILAIS
where there is a high incidence of these diseases. The project would support
detection of tuberculosis so that infctious cases can be cured at an early stage and
tansmission to others avoided. The project would finance laboratory products,
dnrgs, and other supplies. In the case of malaria, the project would si'pport
fumigation and destruction of mosquito breeding grounds, blood tests, and treatment
of patients with chloroquine and primaquine.
3.    Managent of PHC Services at the Local Level. Under the new decentralization
policy of the MOH, the SILAIS are now responsible for delivering health services. They are
allocated an anmnal budget, of which 20 percent is a money ainser. Under the project, they
would enter into management contracts with the central office of the MOH and their
performance would be judged on the basis of monitoring indicators.
4.    Empha on Preventive Care. The MOH will put more emphasis on prevention and
early detection of illnesses at the primary level and referrals of patients to higher levels of
care to reduce costs of curing illnesses which are more advanced. Health personnel will
undertake community education campaigns to stress the importance of washing hands before
cooking or eating, boiling water and vegetables, disinfecting water with chlorne tables, and
instaulling latrines. Additional taining will be provided to nurses and voluntary health
workers on early detection of danger signs of ARI and those of dehydration resulting from
diarrhea. Proper prevention techniques will be promoted, such as avoiding exposure to cold,
smoke, and dust, especially for infant under three months of age. The community training



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 6
HEALTH SECIXR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 3 of 4
program will also reinforce the importance of completing antibiotic treatment at home, even
though initial symptoms may have subsided, once such treatment has been initated.
5.   lutegraton of Vertical Programs at the Iocal Level. Under the redefined PHC
model, the MOH will:
(a) provide norms to integrate maternal and child health activities at the health
centers and health posts, including the requirement that immunizations in the first year
of life of the infant would be carried out in scheduled health check-ups for children,
reducing emphasis on the immlnization "campaign" strategy and increasing that on
the "routine" strategy;
(b)   design mechanims to integrate nutrition prgrams (e.g., breast feeding,
weanig process, nutition education) with growth monitorng durig health check-
ups, and design interventions to improve nutritional status of malnourished children;
(c)   establish a straty and norms for early and more frquent prenatal controls,
including immunizations, for pregnant mothers; and
(d)   provide family planning assistance at the time of postnatal controls.
6.   Reallocation of Tfss to Nurse and Auxiliary Nurses. Under the redefined PHC
model, many tasks now performed by doctors could effectively be undertaken by nurses, thus
reducing unit cost of service delivery. A similar delegation of tasks from nurses to auxiliary
nurses would also apply. This tansfer would be gradual, in line with the changing of the
human resources profile of the MOH. The potential reallocation of tasks are presented in the
table on the next page.
7.    Supervision would consist of technical and training activities undeitaken to ensure
that the proper methodology and norms are implemented to reach the objectives of the
project. Supervision activities would emphasize taing of staff implementing the project
and identification of necessary changes and adjustments. The project would support technical
and "trining" supervision in the health centers and health posts of the seven SILAIS
supported by IDA financing. Three PHC consultants would be contracted to that effect by
the PCU in coordination with the Vice Minstry for Health Care Services.
8.    Supervision would be undertaken periodically to ensure a minimum of two
supervision visits per year for each health facility. To that effect, supervisors would use the
Supervision Guide of the Vice Ministry of Health Care Services, which is the same guide
used at a national level for the supervision of all 19 SILAIS.
9.    Follow-Up. This would consist of regular administrative activities undertaken to
ensure the proper implementation of the project. They would be carried out by the SILAIS
Directors who would take appropriate measures to correct problems. They would use an
implementation schedule to check progress in project implementation.
10.  Evaluation. This activity would allow to compare the proje..t s a. hievements to the
targets for a given period and make the requird adjustments. Evalutionm would be
undertaken everv Year using process indicators and impact indicators i'tbk'i would evaluate



NICARArUA                                      ANNEX 6
HEALTH SECIDR REFORM PROJECI                                 Page 4 of 4
the effects of given activities on project beneficiaries (Annex 20). For that purpose, the
project would finance two national consultants, specialized in project evaluation, for periods
of two months each.
oAc   es               Pre.e  Siuation       Modd     I      Resources
PRENATAL    Wiht & height                         MCH aux. nurse  All the activities   One room and one
CONTROL                                                            ought to be       MCH aw yliary
Bbod pressure                       MCH aux. numW  conducted by        nutse at the health
Ttubis tomxoid immuniztion          Aux. mire (in    MCH auxiliary    post.
another room)    nuseO
Detection of complicatiens          Phrysician                         char  of an
Education                           MCH aux. nue                       prenat   activities
____________________________   ____________at   ft       e  health
Detection of cervical cancer        Physcian                           center.
Syphilis & STDs treatment           Physician                          Two or three
Malark uumnt      Malaria ux. pem                  ~~~~~MCHI auxiliary
Malaria treatment                    Malaria aux. pers                 personnel in one
Prnision of micro-nutrienti (iron,  Physician or aux.                  room workiug in
iodine, vitamin A)                  per.                               intgrmed prenatal
Promotion of birlhs in maternides   MCH aux. nurse                     activites
BIMWrS        Increase percenage of births delivered   Physician or  amined nuse or   Health cent with
in maternity waris                  trained nurse    physician         beds or hospital
Impwved conditions for births delivered  Relaes or   Only trained      Home with a good
at home (safe and clean births with  community birth  community birth  referral system
delivery pacmges)                   atea             at
PO -INATAL  _WeI                                  MCH aux.  se   Most services can  Posnal conml
ICONTROL   Blood pressure                          MCH aux. numse  be delhvered by    should be
Check-up of birth consequences      Physician        MCH ax. nurse  inegraed with
'except some     femily ptannimg in
Promotion of breast feediiw         MCHI aux. nuse  check-wups and     the same room and
Famiy planniug (IUD, pills, condoms   Physician or   Ijis)             with the same
ec.)                                MCH aux. pers.                     petson
Detecdon of cervical cancer (pap smear)
WELL-BABY  Weight                                 MCH aux. urse  All the health      All these acdvities
AND CHID  Classification of nutritonalstatus      MCH aux. nurse  check-up activities should be done in
EWALT        fImmunins                               mtion aux. ouht to be           one room and by
CHECK-UPS                                         pers.            conducted by      one person at the
_______________pen.  MCH aux. nurse  health center as
Promotion of breas  ediug (exclusive at MCH aux mm   or by community   well as the health
leas 4-6 months)                    _eal workers    post by MCH
Nutrition and health education (espec.   MCR aux. nrse  (CW)           auxiliary nurse or
weanwg food)                                                           by CHW.
Dewormiit                            MCH aux. nurse
Micnutriet (iron, iodine, vitamin A) MCH aux. nurse
Integraed managem    of the sick child  Physician or
with detection and treatment of:    MCH personnel
- diartheal disases
-  ue resp. infecidons
- meanies
- malaria           _Malaria pewsonnel



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 7
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 1 of 2
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVhOPMENT SUBPROJECIS
Appraisal Criteria
1.    BenciarIes. Subprojects would benefit individuals or groups of individuals.
2.    lypes of Subprjec". Subprojects eligible for financing would consist of formal
management training courses, participation at workshops, attendance at congresses, seminr,
and symposiums, and courses abroad. Financing would cover the cost of participating in
taining activities as well as the cost of preparing and presenting the courses. For example,
a subproject for the training of a group of SILAIS Directors would cover the cost charged by
the training institution plus transport and subsistence when applicable. Subprojects would
cover the following categories, from which sponsors may select any combination according
to their needs, thus creating progams tailor-made for the needs of specific SILAIS:
(a)   V3eneral
Decentralization of Services
Epidemiology
(b)   SILAIS Management
SILAIS Organization and Management
Strategic Planning
Management Information System
Personnel Management
Budgeting
Pharmaceutical Supply Management
estment Maintenance and Project Preparation
Alternative Sources of Financing
Monitoring and Supervision
Impact Evaluation
(c)   Hospital Management
Hospital Oranization and Management
Strategic Planning
Management Information System
Personnel Management
Budgeting
Pharmaceutical Supply Managent
Intment MaintenaLce and Project Preparation
Health Insurance
Cost Accounting
Cost Recovery
Monitoring and Supervision
Impact Evaluation
(d)   Other
Areas critical to implemenation of MOH decentralization strategy by



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 7
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 2 of 2
3.    Sponsors would imclude all 19 SILAIS Directors, the 27 hospital Directors, and
Department Directors of the central MOH office.
4.    E sc,ut  Agencies would include local or foreign universities, training institutions,
and consulting firms.
5.    Allocation of Resources. Out of a total fund of US$600,000, US$150,000 would be
set aside for specific activities in the fbllowing areas: (a) training of central MOH and
SILAIS management in subproject preparation; (b) technical assistance to MOH high-level
management in issues such as organization and management cf health services in the context
of decentralized services; and (c) dissemination of project objectives and activities to MOH
staff, municipalities, and other institutions.
6.    The balance of US$450,000 would be divided among each of the 19 SILAIS and the
central level in function of their number of staff. Subprojects would be reviewed according
to appraisal criteria described below and approved for each SILAIS and the central level untl
their respective ceilings are reached. As indicated above, weaker SILAIS would receive
assistance in subproject preparation. Disbursement of finds would be reviewed at the mid-
term review. Should no requests have been made by one or more given SILAIS (or made
but not accepted by the Review Committee), allocation of funds would be reviewed and may
include reallocation from non-performing to performing SILAIS.
7.    Contents of Proposals ovuld include: (a) a broad analysis of main areas of
institutional weaknesses; (b) training propsal including type and mimber of staff to be
rained, curriculum, training calendar, and cost analysis; (c) if cost of proposal is less than
total amount allocated to SILAIS or central MOH office, explanation of how given proposal
fits within overall plans to use rest of funds allocated; (d) expected impact; (e) potential of
tansmitting knowledge and skills acquired to other staff not attending the course; and (f)
short list of prospective eecuting agencies.
8.    Appraisal Criteria would be as follows:
Pbints
Impact expect  on management of health services          45
Cost-effectivness of proposal (i.e., cost of delivering
training compared to alternatives)                     20
Experience and capability of prspective agencies         20
Potental benefits to other staff                         15
Tbtal        100
9.    Disbursements would be made by IDA against 90 percent of the cost of subprojects
approved.



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 8
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 1 of 2
EXISTING FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAMS IN NICARGUA
1.    The country's cufrent estimated total fertility rate of 5.5 is still high and similar to
that of the Latin American and Asian regions in the late 1950s. The previous Government
was vigorously opposed to family planning, which resulted in a gradual erosion in the
delivery of services by the public sector. The present Government, however, has expressed
its intention to improve the MOH's capacity for provision of family planning services and
inoduce intensive faily planning education progrms. In 1993, modem contraceptive
prevalence was estunated at 63 percent in urban areas anim 38 percent in rural areas, based on
coverage by the MOH and PROFAMILIA, the largest NGO in family planning in Nicaragua.
Several donors, including USAID, Norway, and UNFPA are providing the MOH with
technical assistance, tainig, and logistical support for family planning.
2.    Knowledge of contraception in Nicaragua is vezy high, as 97 percent of women aged
15-49 have knowledge of at least one modem method of contraception (orals, IUDs,
injectables, implants, vaginal methods, condoms, female strilization, or vasectomy).1' The
most used methods a-e oral contraceptives, IUDs, female sterilization, and the condom.
Nicaragua's contiaceptive prevalence is estimated to be intermediate, between Costa Rica
(with 69 percent, the highest in Central America) and Guatemala (with 23 percent, the
lowest). Sixty-eight percent of married women aged 15-40 use contraception to limit their
childbearing while 30 percent want to space their pregnamncies.
3.    Sources of Contraception. The most important suppliers of contraceptives are public
sector facilities, primarily those belonging to the MOH. It is only in Managua that a higher
proportion of contraceptive users rely on the pnvate sector rather than on the public sector as
their source of coMtaception. Of the private sector sources, pharmacies are the ranking
suppliers, followed by privaWte clinics and physicians, then NGOs such as PROFAMIUA and
IXCHEN. The MOH is the principal source of fmale sterilization (74 percent) and IUDs
(65 percent) hr the country. Pharmacies are the prmary sources of oral contraceptives (43
percent), condoms (52 percent), and injections (83 percent). PROFAMILIA is the second
Iargest provider of female sterilization in the country (10 percent), followed by private clinics
(9 percent). Private clinics are the second largest provider of IUDs (17 percent), followed
by IXCHEN (10 percent).
4.    Educational atinmment is an important deteminant of where users obtain their
method. Women with a secondary or post-secondary education are four times more likely to
obtin their contraception from pharmacies or private physicians than women with no formal
education. In contrast, the majority of less educated women rely solely on the MOH for
their contraceptives.
5.    Reasons for Non-use of Contraception. Of married women recently surveyed and
not currently using contraception, 63 percent were not using any method for reasons related
Il The source of miuch of the inlrmation provided in ftis Annex is based on provisional results of a sur8y
prvided in a 1993 OPANMIUA report.



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 8
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 2 of 2
to pregnancy, subfecundity, or lack of sexual activity. This lucludes 18 percent wbo were
postpartum or breast feeding, many of whom were probably at risk of pregnancy. Two-
thirds of tbese 63 percent (approximately 278,000 married women) are potential high priority
target women for contraceptive use following their current pregnancy or postpartum period.
The remaining 37 percent of non-users, i.e., those who gave "other reasons" in a recent
PROFAMIUA survey for not using contraception could be considered himmediate potential
candidates for adopting contraception at the time of the survey. Only one percent of women
stated they were not using contraception because of religious reasons. Only four percent
stated that they discontinued use because they did not have the money to purchase
contraceptives or their wethod cost too much.
6.    Desire to Use Contraception in the Future. More than two-thirds of fecund non-
users said that they desired to use a method of contraception in the next 12 months.
7.    Donors Support for ftmily Planning and IDAts Proposed Involvement. USAID,
the International Planned Parenthood Foundation (IPPF), and UNFPA all provide
conDtaceptives and technical assistance in family planning to the Goverment of Nicaragua.
The largest donor is USAID, which has approved a project that includes the provision of
contraceptives for a total value of US$2.6 million equivalent over the next three years. This
would amply cover the country's absorptive capacity d-ring the period. Since 1991, the
UNFPA has been providing condoms, oral contraceptives, and inter-uterine devices (IUDs)
to the MOH. In 1993, the UNFPA expects to donate US$375,000 of contraceptives.
UNFPA also plans to assist MOH in introducing Norplant implants into the Ministry's family
planning program by providing 1,000 starter kdts. The UNFPA plans to work closely with
MOH's Division of Maternal/Child Health and Family Planning (MCH/FP) to strengthen the
management of the MOH family planning program, and give technical training to service
providers. In collaboration with USAID/Nicaragua and the Division of Reproductive Health
of the Adanta-based Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the UNFPA will assist the Division
of MCH/FP in the implementation of a computerized contraceptive commodity management
information system. Once installed, this system would provide information on the supply
status of the MOH family planning program and for forecasting contaceptive requirements.
8.    The proposed project would support the provision by the MOH of a basic health
service packge, principally maternal and child care. One important element of this package
is family plannimg to be provided as an integal part of PHC services. Iraining would be
provided to MOH personnel in family planning counseling, method selection, and contra-
indications.



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Pae  1 of 10
PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION
A. Quantification of Major Benefits
1.    Based on experience with pharmaceutical logistics systems and with the reommended
interveions in other developing countries, the achievement of the following targets is
thought to be feasible by the end of project implementation. Special studies would be
undertake to determine baseline levels for each indicator and the suggested quantitative
argets would be reviewed during the first annual review.
2.    Increased Availability of "Vital" Supplies. A list of "vital" pharmaceuticals and
supplies (shorter than the basic list) would be developed. A special study would determine
the baseline frequency and duration of stockouts for these supplies at the CIPS, SILAIS, and
health facilit levels. Tentatively, the pharmaceutical component is expected to r_hieve: (a)
50 percent reduction in the frequency -f stockouts; and (b) 75 percent reduction in the
average duration of stockouts.
3.    Decreased Unit Costs of Pharmaceuticals and Supplies. Procurement savings of 37
percent were achieved in 1993, which is significant. However, furither savings are possible,
albeit smaller. The unit costs paid for all identical products purchased in two consecutive
years would be compared and weighted in proportion to each productes contribution to total
qxenditures. After adjusting for inflation, the resulting figure would constitute an indicator
of procurement efficiency. Tentatively, the project is expected to achieve a 10 percent
reduction in unit costs paid for pharmaceuticals and medical supplies.
4.    Reduced Losses of Pharmaceuticals and Supplies. The project would help reduce
losses of pharma ical and medical supplies by improving forecasting, acquisition
procedures, inentory management, and distribution procedures. In the past, losses have
represented a substatial but undetermined proportion of all acquisitions. Actions have been
aen to reduce losses, particularly at the central level, but much remams to be done.
lTnatively, the phannaceutical component is expected to achieve: (a) 75 percent reduction
in losses due to product expiration and deterioration in storage; and (b) significant, but
unmeasuable, reduction in losses due to product filtration to the black market.
5.    Decreased Opeating Costs at the CIPS. The project would help reduce CIPS
operating costs by supportig the trnfer of some responsibilities to the private sector, e.g.,
customs clearance and some transportation services. Operatng costs would be further
reduced (i) as a consequence of lower storage volume requirements made possible through
improved procurement and inentory management practices and (ii) increased efficiency in
personnel management.    atively and after adjustments for inflation, the pharmaceutical
componat is expected to achieve a 25 percent reduction in the operating costs of the CIPS.
6.    Increased Avalabilt  of Generic Pharmaceuticals. The pharmaceutical component
would support a study of private sector marketing of pharmaceuticals and of the related
govnme  legislation and regulations. Recommendations would be made for revisions in
both legiion and  gulatons to facilitate the import and marketig of generic products.



NICARAOUA                            ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 2 of 10
This would result in increased aalbility f geneic product and affordability of
pbhaaceuticals. The study woud establhsh baselin avaability indicators and unit price
inrormation for a list of "vital" pharmaceutical product for which legal generic equivalents
exist. A follow-up survey two years after implementation of the recommendations is
expected to demonstate: (a) 50 percent increa  in the aailability of generic products; tb)
20 percent decrease, after inflation, in the unit price of the leas ex psive geerically
equivalent formulation of each product on the "vital" list; and (c) 100 percent increase in the
esftimated market share of generic phamacticals.
7.    Decrased Inappropriate Use of Pharaceuticals. Reliable information on the
degree of irrational use of pharmaceuticals in MOH facilities is not available. The project
would develop this information and would propose intventions to conrect priority problems.
As in the case of benefits mentioned above, quantitative targets are tentative at this point.
Study results would pernit refinement of the target and prvide a baseline agaist which to
measre progrss, expected to be a 20 percen teduton in loss due to irrational use of
pharmaceuticals at facilities where itrventions are tested.
8.    Despite lack of solid baseline inlfmation for quantitadve target, it is evident that
potental financial savings far exceed the projected cost of the pharmaceutical component.
B. lrms of Reference for Study   legal Cnges  quired
to lmprove Drug Ditribution and Purcasing
Pat 1: Genic Drug Distibution
9.    Bacound. Brand name phaacutical prot, which are relatively expensive,
have a latger share of the retil market than might be predictd for a country with the level
of income of Nicaragua. A relatively small proportion of the Nicaraguan population can
afford thse products. The private sector, therefor, has relatively low coverage of the
populaiion.
10.   Genenc pharmaceutical products, which in otber counties offer substanial savings,
have a correspondingly small market share, For example, the unit cost of the least expensive
form of adult aspirin in a leading Managua supermarket is more than 200 percent greater
than the corresponding cost in supermars in the Unied States. If the priVate sector is to
be responsible for supplying the needs of a greater proportion of the population, as envisaged
by current MOH policy, unit sales prices will have to decrase.
11.   Objectives. The study would attempt to iden*tf legal, regulatory, and other
constran  that inhibit the private sector from selling essential pharmaceutical products to a
much larer proportion of the population. It is anticipatd that the elimination of these
constints would facilitate the manufctue and/or importation of generic products which
could be marketed at a frction of the cost of band name equivalents. This would put the
product within the economic reach of many Nicarapa  that currently cannot afford to
purchase them in the private sector.



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                  Page 3 of 10
12.  Methodology. The study would collect data on {he costs of operadon of a small
nmmber of retail pharmacies. Particular attention would be given to the accurate
classification of fixed and vriable costs. The data would be used to construct an economic
anw .nancial model of a private sector phamacy, which would be used to simulate the
impact of different shares of inexpensive generic products on the pharmacy's profitability.
The data would provide a baseline from which to measure the impact achieved through
implementation of the study's recommendations.
13.   The study would also collect infbrmation on the following areas in an attempt to
identify factors that affect the markting of generic drugs by the private pharmaceutical retail
industry:
(a) laws and regulations;
(b)   product registration procedurs;
(c) consumer acceptance;
(d) prescriber acceptance;
(e) quality control; and
(f)   procument procedures
14.   As appropriate, these fctors would be incorporated into the economic and financial
model of a pharmacy. The completed model would facilitate analysis of sim"lated changes
in those factors, includig the effect on the unit sales price of priorty products and on
pharmacy profitability. The results of the simulations would be used to substntiate
recommended    ions to increase the import, distribution, and sale of generic products.
15. Outputs. The consultants would produce a report that would:
(a)  identfy constraints to the marketing of genenc pbarmaccuticals;
(b)   provide a quantified estimate of the impact of these constaints on a typical
retail unws profitability;
(c)   provide detailed recommendations on how to eliminate or reduce constaints to
the marketng of generic products; and
(d)   provide an estmate of the benefits that could be achieved through
implementation of the recommendations.
16. Project Inputs and Schedule. The study is estimated to cost US$80,000 and would
require approximately six person-monfts of international consultants' services and four
person-months of services from a Nicaraguan lawyer. Two intenational consultas would
be rqired. The lead consultant would be knowledgeable in business administrtion, have
finacial management skills, and ample experience in the health and/or phamceutical
sectorm Hetshe would be supported by a pharmacist knowledgeable in quality control
proedures and generic drug legislation. The project would also provide funding to contract
pharmacy and/or medical stdents to collect data on the product sold by private sector
pharmacies. Given the importnce of this study as a means to increase access to priority
pharmaceuicals without significant rerrent.costs, this study would be completd by
September 30, 1994.



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 9
HEALTII SECTOR REFORM PROJECr                  Page 4 of 10
Part 2: Other Iga Changes that May be Required in the Pharmaceudcal Sector
17.   Mawn of Nicarau's curret pharmaceutical laws and regulations w*re writn in
1926 and support many policies which the current govemment has abandoned. Several of
the contemplated project reforms in the bharmaceutcal sector would reqire that adjustments
be made to existing laws and regulations. Such reforms include, but re not limited to:
(a)   purchase contcts witi flexible total quantities;
(b)   tenders that rquest alternative prices depending on the point of reception, i.e.,
port, CIPS, SILAIS, etc.;
(c)   increased purchase authority br SILAIS and health facilities;
(d)   fomaion of sWpplier performance tracking system;
(e) lease of hospital space to a private pharmacy; and
(f)   sale of pharmaceutical products in public hospitals.
18. Tecbnical assistance would be provided to help the MOH prepare required
govemenal decrees, resolutions and/or legislative proposals. The technical assistance
wud reqire four months of a national lawyer and is estdmated to cost US$8,000. Specific
tk covered by the technical assistance include:
(a)   identfication of xistiDg laws and regulations that constrain implemention of
MOH Policies;
(b)   collection and review of laws and regulatons imple    in counties where
similar forms have previously been implementd;
(*)   formlation of goermeal decrees, resolutions and/or legislative proposals
in close collaboration with MOH legal council (tehical assistance would provide
pertise in inteional supply systems orgition, while MOH legal couil
would provide specific knowledge of Nicaragua's legal and political system);
(d)   implemeion f approed governmenal decrees, resolutions and/or
legisltion tbrough the development of manuals and implemetaftion of required
training; and
(e)   evaluation of cost-effectiveness of legal interntions.
C  Trm  of Reference for Study on Pha           Donations
19.   Nicargua receives donations of pharm cals from many donors, as well as
financing for phanraceuticals from several interntional development agencies. Small
donations from philantopic o ations camnot be cost-effectively handed by the CIPS
and would be better diuected to specific health facilites or prefrably to NOOs. Donations
and financing frm inlternaional development agencies, while badly nd,  redqire an
intensive    i _geeI effort.



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECrIOR REFORM PROJECT                 Page 5 of 10
20.   Donations from different agencies have their own lead times and are subject to
different constraints and conditions, but the MOH does not have a multi-year pharmaceutical
procurement plan. As a result, in the past, procurement has often been based on erroneous
estimates and resulted in significant waste. Specifically, the study would:
(a)   help the MOH establish a policy document on pharmaceutical donations;
(b)   assist the implementation of MOH policy on pharmaceutical donations,
including the development of manuals and training activities and in the diffusion of
the policy to involved donors;
(c) collaborate on the aggregation and analysis of planned pharmaceutical
donations of international agencies;
(d)   assist in the development of a multi-year pharmaceutical procurement plan that
includes the plans of both the MOH and the development agencies;
(e)   assist in the development and implementation of a process by which the multi-
year pharmaceutical procurement plan is quarterly updated; and
(f) analyze the sustainability issues associated with large donations of
pharmaceuticals and present recommendations to the MOH on how to reduce the
impact of future decreases in such donations.
The study is esdmated to cost US$20,000 and would require two months of international
consultants.
D. lrms of Reference for Pharmacutical Financing Study
21.   Background. Pharmaceutical products account for a large fraction of private sector
spending for health services in Nicaragua. The population probably has a greater willingness
to spend scarce financial resources on medicines than on any other form of health care. The
relative willingness of the population to spend financial resources for different forms of
health services will be investigated by a demand study that is being financed by the IDB.
Despite this willingness, the free distribution of these products still constitute one of the
MOH's largest expenditure categories.
22. While there is general agreement on the relative willingness of the population to pay
for pharmaceutical products, there is less agreement on whether, when, and how to capitalize
on that willingness. Possibilities include:
(a) rotating funds operated in public sector health facilities by government
personnel;
(b) non-profit pharmacies operated by community members;
(c) referral of all or some patients to the private sector where they can purchase
the needed products; and
(d)   leases of the rights to operate a private pharmacy within a public sector health
facilit.



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 6 of 10
All of the above alternatives can be supported to a greater or lesser degree by subsidies for
priority population groups and/or for certain serices which te government wishes to
promote.
23.   Objectives. The study would help the MOH examine and test several different
mechanisms for recoveig at least part of its e ipenditures on phuarmcals and for using
the private sector for delivery of drugs. Of particular interest to the Government is the
possibility of leasing space within public hospitals to private pharmacies.
24.   Terms of Reference. The study would consist of two parts:
Part I. Referral of Patients to Private Pharmacies. The study would assess the
feasibility for the MOH of using a network of private phamacies to provide drugs to
patients referred to these pharmacies by the MOH. Patients would go to a MOH
facility for examination by a doctor who would then provide a prescription to the
patient to be filled by a private pharmacy accredited by the MOH. The patient would
receive drugs for PHC priority programs free of charge, and the pharmacy would bill
the MOH. The study would help defne: (a) the accreditation crieria for private
phannacies (such as numbers of hours the pha-macy is opened each week, conditions
of storage of pharmaceutical products, agreement to sell a minimum percentage of
generic products, etc.); and (b) administmtive arrangements (list of drugs to be
provided to patiens free of charge, billing and payment mechanisms, etc.).
Part II.  easIng Space within Public Hospitals to Private Pharmacies. Part II would
be conducted in three phases: design and feasibility analysis, start-up and itial
operation, and evaluation. During the first phase, one of the MOWs large hospitpIs
in Managua would be selected as the study site, a location identifed for the
pharmacy, the i1st of products to be sold determined, pricing and subsidy policies as
well as payment mechanisms determined, reports designed, a tender document
developed, and the ender aMounced. During the second phase, the tender offers
would be analyzed, the winner selected, contracted and installed in the hospital, and
the sale of pharmaceuticals initated. During the final phase, the first six months of
operation would be evaluated. Key indicators would be calculated, including:
(a)   total income from patient charges;
(b)   total subsidy paid by the Government;
(c) average price paid per prescription;
(d)   distribution of subsidies among patients;
(e)   distribution of subsidies among products;
(f)   frequenc and duration of product shortages;
(g)   percen of prescriptions presented that were filled; and
(h) mnmber of prescriptions not filled for lack of funds.
In addition, the pharmacy's compliance with the terms of its contract would be
evaluated and clients interviewed to determine their level of satsfction with the
service.



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECrOR REFORM PROJECr                   Page 7 of 10
25. Outputs. For Part It, the consultants would produce:
DN  Phase I:
(a) detailed design and feasibility study for the pharmacy's operation;
(b) detailed implementation plan; and
(c) detailed draft tender document.
(a) evaluation of the tender offers received;
(b) signed contract;
(c) installation of the private pharmacy in the selected hospital; and
(d)   inidation of pharmaceutical sales.
Du:rin Phase III
(a)   detailed evaluaton of the first six months of operation of the pharmacy,
including estimates of the eight indicators mentioned above;
(b)   recommendations concening necessary modifications in the operaton of the
pharmacy and/or in the terms of the contract; and
(c) recommendations concerning possible replication of the model in other
hospitals.
26.   Orpnization and Schedule. Part I of the study would require two person-months of
consultant services and is estimated to cost US$20,000. Part II of the study would rquire
approximately eight person-months of consultait services, three months during Phase I, three
months during Phase II, and two months during Phase HI, and is estimated to cost
US$80,000. For Part II, tWo cCosultants would be required: the lead consultant would be
knowledgeable in business administtion and financial management skills; he/she would be
supported by a pharmacist knowledgeable in pharmacy management, and the two would work
as a team.
E. Terms of Reference for Rational Drug Use Teclnical Assistance
Phase I - Quan ive hIstgaion
27. Description. The study would collect data from a total of 50 facilities, including
each of MOH's principal service delivery levels (ealth post, medical post, health center, and
hospital outpatient departmen). Thirty of the facilites would be within the SILAIS included
in the project. At each health facility, data would be collected on at least 30 prescribing
encounters. The data collected would be used to:
(a)   measure the magnitude of inapprriat pharmaceutcal use;
(b) identify which aspects of the problem are most important and warrant further
ivestgtion;
(c) identify possible inhtrventions to reduce the problem;
(d) justify the use of resources to reduce the problem; and
(e) establish a basis on which to evaluate the impact of interventions designed to
reduce the problem.



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECIlR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 8 of 10
28.   Outputs. The consultants would produce:
(a)   detailed study protocol for MOH approval;
(b) training of five days duration for four data collectors, including tests of
questionnaires at two facilities;
(c)   final report, with executive summary, which provides baseline levels of each
of the 12 "core drug use indicators# for each service level, identification of the
primary problem areas, and analysis of their impact on patient care (e.g., morbidity
and mortality) and costs (direct and indirect); and
(d) presentation of the results to the Minister of Health.
29.   Project Inputs. Phase I is estimated to cost US$42,000. The project would finance
approximately eight person-weeks of technical assistance, nine person-months of
compensation for the data collectors (who will be pharmacy and medical students), and trl
and transportation costs, including those of MOH counterparts.
Phase H - Qualite  nstigation
30.   Desciption. Having identified the principal dmg use problems, interventions would
be designed for the purpose of changing the behaviors that cause irrational drug use. The
interventions would be developed from a more in-depth qualitative investigation into the
problems i4entified in Phase I. The focus would be upon simple, cost-effective interventions
'hat produce quick results.
31.   Outputs. The consultants would produce:
(a)   list of at least four proposed interventions from which two would be
recommended for implementation in ten facilities each;
(b)   implementation plan for each intervention;
(c) budget for each intervention;
(d) estimated cost-benefit analysis for each intervention;
(e)   final report, with exective summary, including items (a)-(d) above;
(t)   presentation of the report to the Minister of Health.
32.   Project Inputs. Phase II is estimted to cost US$26,000. The project would finance
eight person-months of technical assistance, including travel and trasportation costs. Both
Phase I and Phase II would be completed by December 31, 1994.
Phase II - Implementation of Ihterventions
33.   Description. Based on the recommendations of Pe  II, two interventions wold be
selected for implementtion. Each intervention would be implemented in ten of the facilities
that were included in the initial indicator baseline study in one or more of the SILAIS



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECI'                  Page 9 of 10
financed by the projectfs PHC component. The remaining health centers in the project
SILAIS wold be used as contols for the purpose of evaluation.
34. Output. During this phase of the study, the consultants would support
implementation of two interventions in ten health centers each and would produce:
(a)   rpo  on the progress of the project; and
(b)   presenation of the progress report to the Minister of Health.
35.  P"oect Inputs. Phase m is esimated to cost US$74,000. It is estimated that 16
person-weeks of technical assistance would be required, along with travel and transportaton
costs and approximately US$20,000 for each intervention for implementatdon activities (e.g.,
traing, mass media, etc.).
Ple  IV - Evalaion ofs
36.   Description. Approximately nine months after the implementaton of interventions, a
repeat indicator study would be conducted to determine the impact of the interventions. The
swdy would coLect data from the twenty facilites where the interventons were implemented
as well as from the ten facilities in the control group. The same questionnaires and sampling
methodology for patient encounters would be used as were used in Phase I.
37.   The data would be analyzed and the effectiveness of each intervention detmined.
The evahlaton would also incorporate an analysis of the costs of each intervention. On the
basis of this evaluation, the MOH and interested donors would be able to detmine if the
interventions should be implemented tbroughout the county.
38.   Outpuls. The consultan  would produce:
(a)   taining of five days duration for four data colRectors, including test application
of the quesionnaires in two facilities;
(b)   quantitatve results of the study;
(c)   evuation of the interventions that inchldes, for each intervention, an analysis
of cost-effectiveness, lessons learned, and recommendaions for further
implementation;
(d)   final report, with executive summary, which includes items (b) and (c) above;
(e) presentation of the report and recommendations to the Minister of Health; and
(1)   formal presentation of the report and recommendations at seminar for
government officials, university faculty, private sector representatives, and the donor
comunity.
39.   Project loputs.  ase IV is estimated to cost US$38,000. During this phase, the
project would finance     ly  eit perso-we   of techical assis,
c no*msation for the tam of data collectors, who would be pharmacy and/or medical



NICARArUA                            ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECrOR REFORM PROJECT                  Page 10 of 10
students (approximately five person-months), the trvel and tansportation costs of these
personnel and MOH counterparts, and production and distibution of the final report.



NICARAGUA                          ANNEX 10
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page I of 4
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION OF HOSPITALS
1.   The MOH will apply two types of criteria for the analysis and approval of hospital
subprojects: the basic cnteria and the criteria for determining the priority rating.
Approved subprojects based on these criteria will be endorsed for MOH approval.
2.   Basic Criteria. The basic criteria are necessary but not sufficient conditions that
must be met by the subprojects. Subprojects that do not fulfill the basic criteria will be
immediately returned by the MOH to the corresponding SILAIS. Those that qualify under
the basic criteria will be included for the second stage analysis of priority ranking.
(a)   Amount: Subproject cost should not exceed US$150,000, including a 10
percent allowance for physical and price contingencies;
(b)   Hospital types: All public hospitals, as listed in the Operational Mamal for
Emergency Rehabilitation of Hospitals would be eligible for financing;
(c) FinancingR,equest: The subproject should be presented from a priority list
prepared by each SILAIS after consultation with hospital directors. Subproject
application should be signed by the SILAIS director and the hospital director;
(d)   Operabng Eadi=: The project would give priority to subprojects that do
not generate additional recurrent expenditures. Should there, however, be cases
where a subproject wold generate additional recurrent expendiures, the subproject
application should be accompanied by a letter signed by the Minister of Health
confirming that financing for these expenditures would be provided by the MOH and
included in the budget;
(e) Euding of Last Resort: Subproject requests should confirm that no alternative
sources of financing are available;
(t)   Implementation Period: Should not exceed 12 months year from the initiation
of bidding procedures;
(g)   Consistency with Goverment Strateg: The proposed subproject should be
consistent with the imnestment strategy of the Govemment in the health sector; and
(h)   lpe: Subprojects should belong to one of the following categories:
(i)   Equipment  Purchase           Replacement
New
Repair and/or maintenance
(ii)   Vehicles   Purchase          Replacement
New
Repair
(iii)  Inffastructure Replacement
Repair
Constuction
(iv)  Mixed       Combination of (i) to (iii)



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 10
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 2 of 4
3.    Definitions
(a)   Equipment: Medical or industrial equipment which can be repaired or
purchased (either as replacement for an existing old/obsolete equipment or to add the
capital stock):
(i)   Medical equipment: includes medical and therapeutical equipment
required for clinical services, radiology units, clinical laboratory, blood bank
and sterilization units;
(ii)  Industrial equipment: includes equipment for support services, i.e.,
refigeration equipment, boilers clinical gases, laundry and kitchen facilities,
water storage systems telephone and infbrmation network;
(iii) Purchase: refers to investment in equipment that cannot continue
operaing and is replaced by a new one to fulfill similar purposes;
(iv)  Replacement: would be allowed if the repair cost exceeds 35 percent
of the replacement value;
(v)   New: refers to purchase of equipment not considered as replacement;
and
(vi)  Repair: undestod as the actions needed to put in optimum
functioning condition an already existing equipment. As a rue of thumb,
repair cost should not exceed 35 percent of the replacement value and the
useful life of the eqwipment should increase at least 50 percent accordmng to the
producer's technical specifications.
(b)   VehicIes: Vehicles for ansportation of personnel and patients. Under no
circumstances would it be possible to exceed the maximum number of vehicles
assigned to a service; and
(i)   Purchase: reers to imvestment required to replace damaged or obsolete
vehicles or to incorporate new ones;
(ii)   Replacement: when a non-operating vehicle is replaced by a new one
to fulfill similar purposes. Replacement would be allowed it the repair cost
exceeds 35 percent of the replacement value;
(iii) New: corresponds to an acquisition not considered as replacement; and
(iv)  Repair: understood as the actions needed to leave in optmum
functioning condition an already existing vehicle. Repair cost should not
exceed 35 percent of the replacement value and the useful life of the
equipment should increase at least 50 percent according to the producer's
techmical specifications; and
(c)   Inf ratuc : Refers to civil works for repair, total or partial replacement, or
construction of new facilities:
(i)   Replacement: undertood as the partial or total replacement of a
facility that cannot conue operatng by new infrastuctre to fulfill the same
purposes. "Partial" refers to a complete set of infrastructure which represents
a self-sufficient fumntional unit that does not imply other complementary



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 10
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 3 of 4
modifications not included in the subproject. Replacement would be allowed if
the repair of existg foundation is not viable, i.e., (i) the facility is
sruurally damaged or (ii) the repair cost would exceed 3S percent of the
replacement value:
(ii)   Repair: refers to actions required to leave i optimum functioning
condition a part or parts of an establishment. Repair cost should not exceed
35 percent of the replacement value; and
(iii) Construction: civil works that cannot be considered as replacement or
repair.
4.    Priority Criteria. The following criteria would be used to rank subprojects based on
a weighted point average. Subprojects should get 50 or more poins to be approved for
financing.
(a)   Minimiation of bottlenecks in medical procedures or hospital support
services                                                  40 points
(b)   Reduction of patient and personnel risks                  15 points
(c)   Emphasis on rehabilitation/replacementlrepair versus new construction
or purchase of new eqipment                               15 point
(d)   Emphasis on mawmal and child bealth care improvements     10 ponts
(e)   Emphasis on promotion of ambulatory care                  10 points
(f)   Improements. in handling of medical wastes                10 points
5.    Both the basic and priority criteria will be reviwed and modified, as appropriate,
duing the mid-tem review. During this review, the inclusion of improved cost recovery as
a priority criteria would be analyzed t     into account the results and recommendations of
the cost recovery study to be implemented during the fasr year of the project.
6.    Disbursements would be made by IDA against 90 percent of the cost of subprojects
approved.
Would apply only to hospitals which alrady provide matunal and id heth care senrices.



NICARAGUA                                   ANNEX 10
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                               Page 4 of 4
NICARAGUA - PUBUC HOSPITALS
Number of Beds
No.         Hospita                                            <10iOn  w<P0  i5 100 &       20000
1   <200
ICesar Augst Salinas    Somoto                   -9
2   Modes  Agria           Ocoa                    G           78
3   Alejandlo Davila Bolaflos Estcl                G       _                102
4   Pedro Altamirano        La TGnlad              0            84
5   Mauico Abdalah         Chinmdega               G                                    200
6   Oscar Danilo Rosales    Ie6n                   G                                    364
7   Rosario LaWo           Le6n                   Sh'                       129
8   Aldo Cbavaffia          Managua Occideal       SY          49                        %
9   Francisco Soto         Maaua Occidenal         SLY         74
10  Jos Dolores Fletes              Occidental                              174
11  Antonio Lenin Fonseca   Managua Ocient         GP                                   280
12  Manolo Morales          Managua Central         G          .        :               201
13  Carlos Marx             Managua Orient          G                                   202
14  Bertha Calderor         Managua Centa          Sal                                  291
15  Fernando Velez Paiz     Managu Orien                 _     _        __              250
16  Mauel de Jesus Rinra   Managua Central         S                                    217
17  Gapa Gancia Laviana   RiVas                    G                        189
18  Ber io Diza Ochoa  Gina                         G                       158
19  sup                     JM__                    43 G                                216
20  Hilario Sanchez         MM"                     G                       150      _
21  Jose Niebo ik           Boaco              ;    G           65
22  Camilo Orteg Saavedra  Jgpa                     G                       180  .
23  Amin Halum              iotega                  G                       126
24  Cesar Amador Molina    Matagalpa                0                       180
25  Gry Memora              Puerto Cabe                         71
26  Agusto Cesar Sandino   BluSelds                 G                       118
27  Luis Felipe Moncada     San Carlos              G           51
Lk/    G = General Hospital; S = Speciairzd Hospitl
Santorium for patients with tberulosis
National rer   cent  for rebabilitation and kinesitherapy
gi     Center for treament of slkn diseases (dermatology)
I/     Pycharic hospital
Y/     Although the Lenin Ponseca hospitad is classified as a general hospital, it has been devaloping
specialties in otorino' and neurosurgery
K'     National rference centr in gynecology, ophtmology, ad oncology
Children's hospital secializing in the tcatme  of burs, orthopedics, and operations of babies and
infets
V      Specialiwd in podiaty



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 11
HEALTH SECrIOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 1 of 5
MAINTENANCE SYSTEM FOR HEALTH FACILITIES
A Bakund
1.    The Nicaraguan Health Systm is facing problems in maintaiing buildings,
instalations, industrial and medical equipment. In recent years, premature deterioration has
been observed, together with loss of equipment and unreliable installations and equipment, as
well as limited investment, all of which translate into low productivity and loss in the quality
of health care. The problem has worsened as a result of the financial constraints of the
health sector.
2.    Planning and execution of maintenance activities are currently done partially in light
of funding from bilateral sources (Holland Project, FINNIDA) in a decentralized manner for
preventive activities and through external agents with MOH coordination for more complex
aciivities.
3.    To avoid further deterioration and maintain newly install equipment and rehabilitated
infsticture, the MOH would implement a coherent naintnance policy for its physical
assets. In this context, the policy would translate into a design that would decentralize
maintenance activides and strengthen the autonomy of the SELAIS and health facilities to
manage this task.
4.    The following main variables affecting maintenance would be considered by a relevant
study:
(a)   the sector's policy decision to allow the SILAIS to maintain their assets,
establishing a decentralized maintenance policy for the SIAIIS and the country's
health facilities;
(b) the need to design a system to encourage and facilitate this task;
(c)   financing mechanisms for maintenance activities, assuring optimum use of
available resources and financial stabilit for programs which are often affected by
budget restrictions;
(d) the concentration in Managua and, in some cases, in other countries of the
Central America region of consultnts, professional teams, laboratories, suppliers,
imporers, manufacturers and specialized commerce; and
(e) the current technical capacity of suppliers and their prospects under conditions
such as those indicated in these lORs.
5.    To strengtn the public sector, the MOH has indicated the priority of making
significant future imnestments in infast ture, industral, and hospital equipment.



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 11
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 2 of 5
B. Terms of Reference for Maintenance Study
6.    It is necessary to design a maintenance system that allows health institutions, through
the use of specific methodologies and instruments, to plan, prioritize, formulate, execute,
supervise and evaluate maintenance programs and activities.
7.    Methodology. The Iaysis of sample cases was selected as a methodology option
for carryig out the study. Thus, the consultants, together with the MOH, would group the
health institutions into thee categories, based on variables relevant for analyzing the subject
of maintee. For each category, a maintnance system would be designed for a selected
representative establishment, as shown below.
8.    The MOH would detail the extent and features of maintenance under its maintenance
policy framework; this would be provided to the consultants together with other background
materia for the study. The maintenance system to be developed for each sample case would
have a modular, flexible and self-sufficient design in order to be implemented quickly,
without suctnu  changes, in at least eight to ten health establishments of the Nicaraguan
public health system. The overall implementation would be carried out in a medium-term
time fame, in the context of the financing of other bilateral and multilateral funding sources.
9.    InformatiOn Sources. As basic data for the study, the consultants would be provided
all background iformation on the MOWs equipment through the General Office of
Technological Development which has recent specific studieW on the subject, as well as
registers and technical stanards, and which has also had relevant participation in the
preparation of the Holland Plan and the FINNID  Project. With respect to infrastruce,
data is scarcer; this is where the consultants would make a significant contribution.
10.   Content of Phases. The following are the proposed phases for carrying -out the
study, including the minimum contents of each part:
(a)   Phase I: Analysi of the Current Situion. Although, as stated above, the
maintenance system would be designed based on sample institutions, in this phase the
consultants would carry out an overall analysis with regard to the maintenance of
health insfitutons in order to identify the following issues:
(i)   existing standards and degree of knowle'ge and application;
(ii)  administrative structure for maintenance in bealth institutions;
(iii)  decision-making scheme in the process of assigning priorities and
-resources for maintenance and subsequent performance of needed actions;
(iv)  administrative and operational practices for maintenance of health
institutions: existence of planned and preventive maintenance progam, extent
of the program, results, etc.;
(v)   human resources allocated for this activity;
(vi) financial resources actually allocated to the maintenance category as a
percentage of the health institution's operating expenses;



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 11
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 3 of 5
(vii) aalysis of the current status of medical and industrial equipment,
buildings and instllations. The consultants would update the MOH's
equipment intory list containing the basic information; and
(viii) principal maince providers for health institutions, according to
their areas of expertise.
For this point, suppliers' historical and current market status should be known with
regard to at least the following matters:
* size
* technical and specialization level
* capacity and timeliness of response
* types of contracts
* coverage
* real incentives for outside contractors
In the analysis of the current situation, additional information ayailable in the MOH
would be considered; this information is found in planning and analysis documents for
Nicaraguan health institutions, showing the current status of buildings and equipment.
The analysis would conclude with data systematization and preparaton in order v F
reach conclusions on the various subjects studied, by means of interactive worfi . .-Ih
responsible MOH staff as well as health institutions. During this phase the consultant
wuld examine other national or intnational experiences in this area which, when
inchlded in the stated policies and strategies, could be useful for the study.
(b)   Phase H: Derination of Manace Requirents. Based on the
analysis prepared in phase I, the consultants would determine the maintenance
reqirements of representative institutions included in the study. To prepare their
%fntmates, the consltants would use the inventory lists updated in phase I, both for
equipment and ifrastucture  The actvities in this phase would be:
(i)   classification of the inventory list by lines of equipment;
(ii) determiation of maintenance activities and preparation of maintenance
standards and procedures for each type of equipment;
(iii) determination of technical standards and procedures for buildings and
installations;
(iv)  detenation of general stmdards for replacing equpment, in terms of
the cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness ratio, including handling rejects; and
(v) determination of general standards for keeping an infbrmative, up-to-
date register of equipment (control of operating costs).
(c)   Phe mH: Proposals for Executing a Mntnce System and Selection of
Best Options. When creating maintnance system models, it is important to consider
the Govmenst' general policy, especially regarding decentalization policy. The
consultants would give preference to those options that strength local level decision-
malkng and encourage the participation of the private sector in defining maintenance
nrurams. Self-sufficin altrnatie, if any, would only be considered on a



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 11
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECr                    Page 4 of 5
supplementauy basis sad for well-founded strategic reasons, and centralized
alternatves wold only be considered for justified technical and economic reasons. In
this phase, the consultuns would define the main   ables that they wold consider
while preparing the matenan  system, prioritzing them according to their
respective importance in each situation defined, based on the analysis.
Options would be proposed for canrying out the maintenance system. These would be
technically evaluated, rating all those fidling under management decentralization
strategies being implemented trough sectoral policies. During this selecdon process,
the consultants would also consider the specific maintenance policy which wowld
define priorities and relevant areas under the national hospital maintenance system.
The proposed options would contain general characteristics that prvide flexibility for
efficiendy adapting to those variables that most directly affect maintnace progms,
as well as their realization and development over time. All options prposed in this
phase should contain a general design of the maintenance system's operation, in order
to gauge and evaluate it. Given the development of computerized data systems, all
proposed alternatives should be able to be computerized during the d.velopment
phase, in each health institution.
(d)   Phase IV: Deveopment of Matce Sy    for Heath hnttons.
This pbase deals with the development of the option selected in the previous phase. It
wuld reach the level of details for each sample case. The features to be at least
included would be:
0i)   Standar  aSe
- stands and procedures for equipment maintae
* sandards and procedures for maintenance of buildings and insalaLations
: general standards for replacement of equipment in terms of the cost
benefit or cost-effectiveness ratio, including handling of rejects
* general stdards for keeping an up-t-date, informadve equipment
register (control of operating costs)
* general ,peventive maintenance planning models
* corrective maintnance and emergency management schemes
* sample technical assistmce contracts
(ii)     ational Featres
* basic stucture and general organization
* oqranization at the level of SILAIS and health institutions, including a
definition of roles and functions
* staff equirements and level of staff training
(iii)  Eecutive Features
* managerial and decision-making system
* administrtive systems
*  stem to rate consultas, technical services and suppliers
* service contng systems
* system to evaluate the degree of compliance by maintenance programs
and the result of activities performed
* spare parts and matrial control system



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 11
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 5 of 5
* management eWaluation system
* staff taining and instruction system
(iv)  Economic  u     . The consultants would estimate the flow of
resources required by the option, separately by equipment, building and
instllation line items, for each institution. They would also estimate the
aggregated cost for the MOH to carry out an adequate yearly maintenance
program. This information would be delivered in an appropriate softare
format to allow the MOH to simulate scenarios of maintenance system
operations. Cost estimates for each item would contain a breakdown of unit
prices to allow the MOH to discern the relative incidence of cost components.
11.   lbmIng and Cost. The maintenane system study would require 18 months of
foreign consultants and 15 months of local consultants and is estimated to cost about
US$200,000. It would start in March 1994 and is expected to be completed by August 1994.
F. TAms of Reference for Recurrent Costs Study
12.   Introduction. The recurent costs for a hospital are those corresponding to human or
physical inputs requited to produce a given output. For Nicaragua, rehabilitation of hospitals
and replacement of equipment are expected to cause increases in recurrent costs as new
equipment will require additional human resources (formerly idle or occupied elsewhere
when the equipment did not work), fuel, and materials (such as X-ray film).
13.   The purpose of the study is to analyze the impact of various investmente -. hospitals
on the recurrent costs supported by the MOH. A simple methodology would be used to
esmate for each hospital what would be the additional requirements in human resources,
physical inputs, and maintnance that would result from recent or proposed investments in
Niaraguan hospitals financed by bilateral and multilateral agencies. The aggregate would
provide an estimate of additional recurrent needs that would have to be supported by the
MOH (or through user fees) in the future.
14. Methodology. The study would focus on three categories of recurrent costs: human
resources, physical inputs, and maintenance. For human resources, coefficients would be
designed to define the relationsbip between human resources required and services produced.
Distinction would be made between higher- and lower-level professionals and fixed and
variable costs. On-going MOH salary and benefit levels would be used. For physical
igpiM, a matrix of all physical inputs entering into the production of services would be
constmcted (final, intermediary, and support services) to establish unit cost per production
center. Project chans in frequency of service production would also be considered. For
simple types of diagnosis and treatment, simplified methods or estimates would be used. For
, indicators wwld be developed for groups of similar or complementary
equipment to estimate future mainknance needs as well as for civil works.
15.   iming and Cost. The study would be carried out over a period of five months,
strting    April 1994. It wold require 9 months of international consultnts and 7 months
of local conltants and is exected to cust US$100,000.



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 12
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 1 of 7
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO JNSSBI
A. 'bdichcal Assistance for Reform of INSSBis Health insurance
1.    Prject Framewor. The Government of Nicaragua is in the midst of reforming the
health sector to improve coverage, access, and quality of health services on the basis of cost-
effectiveness criteria and the country's economic situation. To that effect, the Government
has strted to strengthen the management and planning in the sector, improve the quality,
effectiveness, and efficiency of the health care services. These objectives would be
supported by the proposed project. The project would provide tecmical assistance to INSSBI
to help it develop a new health insumance model, based on a more efficient administration of
the instiuon, that would allow the implementation of more cost-effective health care
aternatives and would improve faimness in access to services.
2.    INSSBI Health Care Insurance Subcomponent. This subcomponent would finance
studies that encompass an integrated, coherent, and supported set of proposals end specific
actions to modernize and develop an adequate health insurance system. The proposals would
be made within the policy framework defined by the sectoral authorites.
3.    For methodological puiposes, the terms of reference of the study have been separated
into different components and subcomponents. However, the study would be carmed out in
such a way that it would be possible to introduce changes to different areas at a later date,
uaking into consideration the whole project. The studies would propose generl and specific
plans of action, implementation mechanisms, and the associated investment and operational
costs of these actions.
4.    Background. INSSBI uMenty needs to redefine its care and financing models for
social security and welfare in accordance with the current Government strategies within the
framework of the political, economic, and social reality of the country. Tb that effect,
INSSBI is currently discussing the design of a social security health model geared toward
user satisfaion, faiss in access to the most basic level of health for its beneficiary
population, on the basis of fair competition between public and private providers, increased
efficiency in the prvision of services to help reduce health costs. Under this new model,
INSSBI would manage the mandatory health insurance contributions, define the plans and
coverage for medical care of its beneficiaries and, through agreements, would buy health
care services from public and private providers to guarntee the medical coverage of its
insured.
S.    For the initial phase of the reforms, INSSBI would start to offer a single health plan
to its present universe of beneficarnes (affiliates, maternity expenses of spouse of affiliates,
and children under the age of two) on the basis of a basic basket of comprehensive benefits
-w th zmghhasis on heilth promotion and prvention among the population. Under this system,
INSSBI would purchase health services from comprehensive medical care centers in which
users would be free to enroll either individually or collectively and would receive from
INSSBI a monthly benefit per insured beneficiary independent of their work category or



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 12
HEALTH SECrOR REFORM PROJECI                    Page 2 of 7
place of work. However during an initial tnsition period when offer of services from the
private sector will still be limited, INSSBI will mantain a system of payment for services.
6.    These changes would be the result of a significant functional and organizational
reform process which would allow INSSBI to deliver social security services to its
beneficiary population in a just, efficient, and timely manner and with a level of quality in
the provision of these services that effectively corresponds to the mandatory payments made
by the beneficiaries for these services. At the same time, improvement in the provision of
social security benefits is being considered within a context of modernization of INSSBI's
oinzational strucure and the decentralization of its functions to the regional level.
7.    Objectives of the Project. The main objectives would be: (a) to reform the INSSBI
social security health insurance model; (b) to develop and implement a proper MIS; and (c)
to stengthen INSSBrs management capacity.
(a)   Reform of INSSBI Social Security Health Insuas    Model. Through the
development of this subcomponent, INSSBI`s senior management would be provided
with the necessary consultant SUpport for studies and proposals for reforms of the
social security health model, including:
(i)   insurce administation, which would evaluate the possibility of
private health insurance based on the mandatory contribution, subject to an
adequate reguatory framework related to health in the third age and the
problems of pnvate caophic patients that would permit economies of scale
to maintain the proportion of administrdve costs at a reasonable level;
(ii) coverage and beneficiaries, which would revise the basic plan on the
basis of exerience acquired during the pilot phase, analyze the possibility of
expanding coverage to empIoyees' families, and evaluate the convenience of
inoducng plans with differentated coverage according to the affiliate's
income or on the basis of additional contributions; and
(ii) purchase moae'l or model of services, which would review the purchase
model with a view io reducing the payment per service provided and favor the
greater participation of comprehenive medical centers through the inclusion in
their payments of the referral costs, evaluate the possibility of introducing a
differeniated payment by beneficiary according to the different levels of
relative medical risks, and design of process by which health facilities would
bill and receive payment from INSSBI;
(b)   Manafement Infmation Systms Development. The proposed changes for
INSSBI require the implementation of an MIS that would allow the efficient
management of available resources. The MIS would include mainly admmistrative,
infrmation, and acuarial ystems, although it may be deemed convenient to define
addition information sytems during the study, including:
(i)   administrave information system (AIS), which would include all the
documenation required by INSSBI to execte its main functions and finance
the health services roquired by its beneficiares efficiently and likewise, the



NICARAGUA                          ANNEX 12
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 3 of 7
flow that such informadon will have within the oranization, including the
agents imolved in its generation. The following modules would be included:
[a]   employers module, which would define how employers would
declare and pay required contributions and how INSSBI would monitor
the payment of contributions;
[b] beneficiaries module, which would establish mechanisms to
allow beneficiaries to enroll in INSSBI, have access to the benefits of
the basic health plan, and sign up with a health care provider; a fixed
amount per employee would be assigned to a health provider selected
by the employee;
[ci   health providers module, which would allow INSSBI to maintain
registry of health providers to define the amounts that must be
perodically allocated to them according to the enrolled population and
monitor their ability to provide the agreed upon services; and
[dl   health services module, which would help INSSBI build a
registry of the health services that the different providers render to its
beneficiaries and of the work disability subsidies that it will pay
directly; specify control, audit, and management statistics to be kept to
provide efficient decision-making tools, and define the framework
(forms or computer files) through which the information will be
requested from the providers; and
(ii)  actarial information system (ACIS), which would include the
necessary infbrmation to allow INSSBI to audit and control its revenues and
operational expenses in order to efficiently manage the resources at its
disposal. To that effect, the following modules would be developed:
[a] beneficiaries module, which would provide comprehensive data
on beneficiaries and their frequency of use of the system; and
[b]   health services module, which would provide information on the
health services and subsidies for work disability being financed by
INSSBI; and
(c)   Management Support Pam. This program would help strengthen INSSBrs
management capability through the taining of its managing staff on technical subjects
related to the implementation of the new social security health model and the new
information systems.
8.    Development of Studies, Relations with Counterparts, Management and
Coordination Mechan. To carry out the studies, INSSBI would contract consultants
with expertise in the specific areas to be stuidied. The counterpart of the studies would be
the Project Coordiat  Unit (PCU). The consultans would carry out their activities in
coordination and under the direction of staff designated by the PCU. In addition, consultants
would maintain permanent interaction with the PCU, which would provide the guidelines to
ensure that the studies would be developed comprehensively within the global framework of



NICARAGUA                             ANNEX 12
HEALTH SECITOR REFORM PROJECT                     Page 4 of 7
the reforms and with the proposals generated in other areas of the project. The PCU would
be able to make racommendations for adiecting the studies as work prgress dictates.
9.    The conult  would conduct rguar dialogue and otherwise work to sensitize,
commit, and completely integate INSSBI authorities, managers, professionals, and workers
in the development of the studies and proposals to foster their sense of ownership in both the
process and results of the studies.
10.   Sub-ooponent Activities and Requi      ts. Resource requirements for this
subcomponent are as follows:
Sat-up    Nat'l.      Intl.  |  Cost
Subcomponent       Acvities       Duration  (project Consultantst1 ConsultantsV
_______   .____________  (monfts)  month)  (cons-imn.) (cons-mos.)  (US$000)
S      _eagtbe of INSSBrs rebrm process  24   13        18         9         117
dministmtive  Emplqmers Module       .75       1        -         1.5         15
lan          Beneficiaries Module    .75       1        -         1.5         1S
,ystm        Headth Pwvideas Module    .75     1        -         1.5         15
Health Services Module  1.25     1        -          2.5        25
Actuarial    Beneficiaries Module    1.25     2         -         2.5         25
SyGemation    Health Services Module  1.25    2         -         2.5         25
Implementation of the Information Systems  3  5         _          _          70
Maagement Support ProgrnmY            36       1        3          _         280
TOTALS   67.5    N/A        21         21        587
Notes: 1' Nationa consultants cost esdmaed at US$1,500 per month
Ineationad consulns cost estimated at US$10,000 per month
t udget r Mangemet Suo Prgm icludes ta cost of geal and sefic trn curs
11.   Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators. The development of the component would
be monitored through aggrgte indicators that would help evaluate the implementation of the
project and adopt timely actions to correct possible delays or deviations from the timetables
and expected reslts. On the other hand, some other indicators would allow to evaluate the
final results of the implementation of the new management and health care models and assess
whether the reorms in the social secuity health insurnce area had the impacts cxpected.
12.   Indicators for moniting of component development include:
(a)   timely delivery of final reports for each of the activities, duly appwved by the
national counterpart; and
(b)   ime taken by INSSBI and its detizd units to implement the new
management and health care models.
13.   Indicators for eWluadon of component results are built on the basis of the objeces
and policy principles that have led to the refrms of the INSSBI social security health
insace model. Within each line of action, the following would be highlighted:



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 12
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECI                    Page 5 of 7
(a)   improvement of the reform of INSSBrs health isurn  model, to be carried
out on the basis of the implemention of changes agreed as a result of consultants'
work;
(b)   infDrmation  tems development, focusing on the following key areas:
(i)   immediate access of the beneficiaries of the health system to medical
services and greater matchimg with their social security contributions;
(U)   improvement and flexibility in the relations between INSSBI and
employrs, especially in the areas of submiting the health contributions and
compliance with payments;
(iii) performance of the health providers, which would allow INSSBI to
improve its negotiation skills in the agreements to be signed; and
(iv) control by INSSBI of the real demand for health services from its
beneficiaries; and
(c)   manem   support progrms, which would be evaluated on the basis of staff
trained in the n ent process. A particular aspect tD be considered on this
subject is the reteton time of trained staff.
IL Techlcal Assstance for Workme's Compesation Program
14.   Backound. INSSBrs current workmens compensation system suffers problems
smilar tO that of the health insurance system: (a) low coverage (only 52 percent of workers
in the fonnal sector); (b) no incentive for employers to promote prevention of accidents as
ptem_ims are under the form of a flat rate of 1.5 percent of the worker's salary; (c) limited
incentive to contibute to the system as rehabilitation services are provided free by the MOH;
(d) concentration Of coerage in Managua; and (e) weak administation and MIS. The
Govenme  has decided to reform the system and introduce a workmeins compemsaton
program that would prie   medical and financial coverage for work accident casualties and
their family, with stong ecomic inceneves on accident prevention. Health rehabilittion
services would be purchased by INSSBI from the MOH or private sector. The employer's
premiumwould fluctuate in function of accident rates on work site. Thus, the proposed
systm would act as true insmance because it would incorporate the concept of rewards for
low accident rate and penalties for high rates, both of which are the emplqyer's
tesponsibility. Supervision would be strengthened to ensure that INSSBI-insured
beneficiaries receive quality treatment by the MOH or private pwviders.
15.   TM= of Reference. lb help INSSBI reform its workmen's compensation program,
the consultants wold:
(a) produce the complete design of organization and management. MIS,
administraive systems required to operate, monitor, and supervise the new
workmens compensation prWam;
(b)   undertak technical and financial fasibiity studies to implement the new
system;



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 12
HEALTH SECrOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 6 of 7
(c)   analyze lacc of insttutional capacity at management and technical level (e.g.,
risk prevention, monitorng of health services delivery) and formulate a
taing progrm for INSSBrs staff;
(d)   provide tectnical asistane to INSSBI managers and technicians during the
nw ptograms lauching period;
(e) design a medical package to be provided by INSSBI to its affiliates and
establish methods to accredit health providers; help establish purchase prices
for types of medical services to be purchased;
(t) evaluate progress in implementation of new model and make recommendations
for coretions;
(g)   propose development plan to strength  MIS; and
(h)   prepae plans for exnsion of coverage.
16.   The proposed techical assistance would start in March 1994 and require 84 person-
months of local consultants and six person-months of international consulats. The projected
cost is US$210,000.
C  lbchcal Assstance for Penson IFlrd
17.   Objecties. The study is expected to reach the following objectives:
(a)   analyze the main failures of the curent pension fund system in Nicaragua;
(b)   present lessons learned from alenative pension fund tems in other relevant
ounties that would help in the design and implementation of a new system in
Nicagua;
(c)   analyze changes that would be rqured prior to the implementation of a new
System;
(d) propose a viable pension fund alternative for Nicaragua;
(e)   provide the inidal iWedient for futue  detailed studies that would be required
to design and implement a new pension fimd system; and
(f) provide a tentative calendar of activities required to implement a new pension
fiud system.
18.   Terms of Reference. Tb reach the above objectives, the consultant would:
(a)   analyze the main problems faced by the pension fimd in Nicaragua. T that
effect, they would:
(i)   make projections to find out the fund's actuarial deficit and expected
year of insolvenq;
(ii) estimate actual arrears, under-declaration, and non-payments of
contiDons by INSSBI affiliates and analyze lack of monitoring and
control in provision of pension benefits;
(iii) estimate coverage of pension fund rsytem;
(iv)  analyze waknesses in insitutional capacity and infrastrucre and
resultig negative effects on affiliates;
(v)   quantify possible inequity in the present system that may result notably
from preerential regmes for some categories of beneficiaries; and



NICARAGUA                            ANNEX 12
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                     Page 7 of 7
(vi)  analyze social consequences resulting from an inadequate pension fimd
system;
(b)   dmw upon their experience from alternative pension fund systems in other
countries to present an analysis that could help in the unplevaentation of a new
pension fimd system in Nicaragua; in particular, this would focus on:
(i)   characteristics of alternative systems: inter-generation risk sbaring,
individual capitalization, mixed systems, etc.;
(ii)   characteristics of the management of pension funds: public and private,
and with different degrees of competition;
(iii) results obWined by alternative systems;
(iv)  macroeconomic and fiscal impact resulting from the introduction of new
systems, especially in the case of individual capilalization, and how this
vas addressed;
(c)   analyze changes required prior to the introduction of a new pension fumd
system; to that effect, the consultants would:
(i)   analyze the level of development of capital markets (debt hismens,
terms, etc.);
xii) analyze the development of the insurance market, especially life
insurance;
(iii)  review the level of development of regulatory and supervisory agencies
in social security and financial markets;
(iv)  analyze existence or potental for creation of a price mechanism that
would allow for adjustments in long-term liabilities;
(v)   review legal changes required to implement a new pension fund system;
and
(vi)  present social benefits that would result from a reformed pension fuid
system;
(d) propose viable alternatives of pension fund systems for Nicaragua and prepare
the outline of a project to reform the pension fumd system; these terms of
reference should cover the design of a new pension fund system including:
(i)   regulatory, financial, institutional, administrative, and other operational
systems required for the operation of a new pension fund;
(ii)  inputs required for the reform and the estmated cost; and
(iii)  proposed implementation calendar.
19. The study would start in October 1994 and would reqwire about three person-months
of iternational consultants and 12 person-months of local consultants. It is estimated to cost
US$90,000.



NICARAGUA                               ANNEX 13
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECI                         Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COSTS
PROJECr COsrs SUMMARY
(US$ million)
IoAl    Forel        Total    6 Foeig    % Total
Exhange  Base Costs
1. MOB Insttutonal Sr|gtming
Decentization to SILAIS                 0.2       0.5        0.7     71.4%       3.7%
HR Devlopment                           0.1       0.8        0.9     88.9%       4.8%
MIS                                     0.1       0.7        0.8     87.5%       4.3%
Sub-Tbtal     0.4       2.0        2.4     83.3%      12.8%
2. PIihary Health Care n_                                 _     =                    7
sseald Priority Drp                     0.3       2.7        3.0     90.0%      16.0%
7raining of Svc Delivery Personnel      0.5       0.5        1.0     50.0%       5.3%
In_aration, Education, Communication    0.2       0.6        0.8     75.0%       4.3%
Infaucture & Equipment                  0.6       0.9        1.5     60.0%       8.0%
Monitrig & Evaluation                   0.1       0.1        0.2     50.0%       1.1%
Sub-Tbtal     1.7       4.8        6.5     73.8%      34.8%
3.    n       a Supply & Dbituton              
Poliq Reform & FinanciVg                0.1       0.2        0.3     66.7%       1.6%
Supply & Disrbution                     0.6        2.1       2.7     77.8%      14.4%
Raronal Use                             0.0       0.1        0.1    100.0%       0.5%
Sub-btal      0.7       2.4        3.1     77.4%      16.6%
4.          o & Mainteaee_
Rehabilitation                          1.3        3.2       4.5     71.1%      24.1%
Mant c Systm                            0.1        0.2       0.3     66.7%       1.6%
Sub- Ibta     1.4       3.4        4.8     70.8%      25.7%
S.  chne Asl      ce to INSSBI
Health Insurance                        0.1       0.5        0.6     83.3%       3.2%
WVbrkmen's Comp. & Pension Fund         0.1       0.2        0.3     66.7%       1.6%
Sub-Tota      0.2       0.7        0.9     77.8%       4.8%
6. rect Adninltrton                        0.8        0.2       1.0      20.0%      5.3%
Totl Baseline Costs                        5.2       13.5      18.7      72.2%    100.0%
Physa Contgencdes                       0.1        0.5       0.6      83.3%      3.2%
Prfce Contngendes                       0.2        0.6       0.8      75.0%      4.3%
Total Project Cusls                        5.5       14.6      20.1      72.6%    107.5%



NICARAGUA                                 ANNEX 13
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                             Page 2 of 3
SUMMARY ACCOUNIS SUMMARY
(US$ million)
Local    Foreig    -bta         Forein  % iTtal
Exwange   BCse
. investment costs                                                              _ 
A. Civil Work                               1.5        2.9       4.4      65.9%      23.5%
B. Equipmnt &Supplies                       0.6        4.1       4.7      87.2%      25.1%
C. Management InfDrmation System            0.1        0.7        0.8     87.5%       4.3%
D. laining                                  0.9        1.8       2.7      66.7%      14.4%
E. lTchnical Assistnce/Consltts             1.9        2.7        4.6     58.7%      24.6%
Total Investment Costs                          5.0      12.2       17.2     70.9%      92.0%
. Recrent Costs                        __
A. Icmntal Drs & Medical Supplies           0.2        1.3        1.5     86.7%       8.0%
Ibtal Recurent Costs                            0.2       1.3        1.5      86.7%      8.0%
Tota BaseHne Costs                             5.2       13.5       18.7     72.2%     100.0%
physal                                      0.1        0.5       0.6      83.3%       3.2%
Price Conu-tnend-es                         0.2        0.6       0.8      75.0%       4.3%
IbiT! Projec Costs                              5.5       14.6       20.1     72.6%     107.5%



NICARAGUA                              ANNEX 13
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                        Page 3 of 3
PROJECT COMPONENIS BY YEAR
(Contingencies Included, US$ million)
-      -  r-   - -   - ___________________  1994  199S  1996  1997   'Dta
1. MOB ISttudonal Stegthening                                                 .
Decentralization to SILIS              0.1       0.3       0.2        0.1       0.7
HR Deelopment                          0.2       0.3       0.3        0.1       0.9
MIS                                    0.1       0.4       0.4        0.1       1.0
Subibotal     0.4       1.0       0.9        0.3       2.6
2. Primary Health Cane
Esseatial Piority Drugs                0.6       1.1       1.0        0.5       3.2
Tlgning of Svc Deiwly lPrsomnel        0.1       0.3       0.3        0.3       1.0
Inbrmation, Educaion, Comnmuication    0.1       0.3       0.2        0.2       0.8
infraStructure & Equipment            0.2        0.6       0.5        0.4       1.7
MonitDring & Evaluation                0.0       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.3
Sub-Ibtal     1.0       2.4       2.1        1.5       7.0
3. Phumaceutlcel Suppy & Dhiribution
PoHcy Reflm & Financiug                0.0       0.1       0.1        0.0       0.2
Supply & Distribution                  0.3       0.8       0.8        0.8       2.7
_ Rational Use                            0.0       0.2        0.1       0.0       0.3
Sub-%a        0.3       1.1        1.0       0.8       3.2
4. ReoabitatIn & Mant_                                                  _
Rehabilitation    -                    0.5       1.4       1.7        1.4       5.0
Maintance System                       0.0       0.3       0.0        0.0       0.3
Sub-Tow       0.5       1.7        1.7       1.4       5.3
S. Iechnical Asdstance to INSSBI                            __               _
Health Insurance                       0.1       0.2       0.3        0.1       0.7
Wormn's Comp. & Pesion Fund            0.1       0.2       0.0        0.0       0.3
Sub-Total     0.2       0.4       0.3        0.1       1.0
6. Pkoject AdmIItIon                      0.1       0.3       0.3        0.3       1.0
lbtal Project Costs                       2.5       6.9       0.6        4.4      20.1



NICARAGUA                         ANNEX 14
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                 Page 1 of I
FINANCING PLAN
LcAlW   Fbrelg     Tbtal
-   US$ million
Government of Nicaragua                 2.1       0.0       2.1
DA                                      2.9      12.1      15.0
Norway                                  0.5       2.5       3.0
Ibta                                    5.5      14.6      20.1



NICARAGUA                             ANNEX 15
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                        Page 1 of 1
METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(US$ million)
Non-IDA
Category                          ICB        LCB       Other    Financed      Tbtal
Civil Works and Materials                       2.2        2.11V                 4.3
(1.9)      (1.8)                 (3.7)
Goods and Equipment                 0.6         0.6        0.6k       2.2         4.0
(0.6)      (0.6)      (0.5)                  (1.7)
Vehicles                            -0-4OA                            -           0.4
(0.4)                 (0.4)
Medical Equipment                   -          -           0.6        -           0.6
(0.6)                 (0.6)
Pharmaceutical Products & Supplies  -          _           3.3t                   3.3
(2.0)                 (2.0)
Management Information System       0.9        -           -          -          0.9
(0.8)                                        (0.8)
Taining                             -          -           1.7        0.8        2.5
(1.7)                 (1.7)
Consultants                         -          -           4.1        -          4.1
(4.1)                 (4.1)
TOTAL                                1.5        2.8       12.8        3.0       20.1
(1.4)      (2.5)     (11.1)                (15.0)
Figres in parentheses are the amounts estimated to be financed by IDA.
I To be procured through price quotations from at least thuee suppliers (ocal shopping)
k'  To be procred through Lmited  eational Bidding (LIB)
' Tb be procured through intenational shopping (US$0.2 million) and LIB (US$0.4 million)
4 To be procured through intenational shopping (US$1.3 million) and LIB (US$2.0 million)



NICARAGUA                                  ANNEX 16
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECr                             Page 1 of 2
DISBURSEMENIS
WITHDRAWALS OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE CREDIT
Amount of the Credit
Category              Allocated (expressed         Percent of Expenditures
in US$ million                to be financed
equivalent)
1.  Civil orfor Part C                            0.6  90%
2.  Goods (other than medica                      0.4  100% of foreign expendittres, 100% of local
equipment and pharmaceuticals) for                 expenditures (ex-actory cost) and 75% of
Part C                                             expnditues for other items pocured localy
3.  Goods for Part E                              0.1  100% of forein expenditures, 100%  flocf l
expenditurs (ex- yctoy cost) and 75% of
exndiutues for other itm  pwcured locally
4.  (3oods ft PCU                                 0.3  100% of foreig expeditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-fttory cost) and 75% of
expenditures for other items pcured locally
5.  Medical Equipment                             0.6  100%
6.  Pharmaceutical Products                       2.0  100% of expenditures up to an aggregae
amount of US$800,000; 50% up to an
aggregae amount of US$1,200,000; and
25% for the remaside
7.  Training for Par B & C                        0.9  90%
8.  Maining for Part E                            0.2  90%
9.  Cosutat Services for Pars A, B,               3.3  100%
C&D
10. Coltant Services for Part E                   0.6  100%
i1. MIS                                           0.9  90%
12. Subprojets
Aor Part A                                  0.4  90% of amounts disbursed by MOH for each
for Part B                                  0.6  subproject approved by MOH on or bebre
for Part C                                  2.6  June 30, 1996
13. Unallocated                                   1.5
Total                                            15.0
Notes: Part A Inst. Strengthening of MOH     Part D Rehab. & Maint. of Hospitals & Other Facil.
Part B Primay Health Care             Part E lTchnical Assistance to INSSBI
Part C Pamaceuticad Supply System



NICARAGUA                          ANNEX 16
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 2 of 2
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMWENS
(in US$ million)
Bak         Quartr       Disbursed   Cumulative  Dash. as % of  Balance of
EIca        Ending         During    Amount           Tbtal        Credit
Year                      Quarter
94     June 30, 1994       1.5_'        1.5         10.0%         13.5
95      Sept 30, 1994      1.2                                    12.3
Dec. 31, 1994      1.2                                    11.1
March 31, 1995      1.2                                    9.9
June 30, 1995      1.2          6.3         42.0%         8.7
96      Sept. 20, 1995     1.2                                     7.5
Dec. 31, 1995      1.1                                    6.4
March 31, 1996      1.1                                    5.3
June 30, 1996      1.1          10.8        72.0%         4.2
97      Sept. 20, 1996     1.1                                     3.1
Dec. 31, 1996      1.1                                    2.0
March 31, 1997      1.0                                    1.0
June 30, 1997      1.0          15.0        100%          0.0
Inchudes Special Account deposit of US$1.5 million and retroactive financing of up to
US$0.75 million for eligible exendiures incuffed after October 1, 1993.



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 17
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 1 of 3
PROJECI COORDINATING UNIT
1.    The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) would be responsible for technical and financial
management of the project. The PCU would report to the MOH's Secreay General1l!
The Director of the PCU would coordinate project implementation within the MOH, with
other Government agencies, and with IDA. The PCU Director wold be assisted by six
higher level professionals and one senior secretuy. One senior level professional would be
responsible for administration and procumet, and each of the remaining would be in
charge of one project component: (a) institutional stengthening of MOH; (b) primazy health
care; (c) pharmaceut;cal supply system; (d) tehabilitation and maintenance of hospitals and
other health facilities; and (e) technical assistance to INSSBI. In addition to its magerial
responsibilities, the PCU would receive guidance from a Coordinating Committee composed
of the Minister of Health and the Director of INSSBI.
2.    PCU Functions. Specifically, the PCU would:
(a)   comply, in the process of project implemenaion, with the directives defined
by the Coordinaft  Commine;
(b)   establish operational prcedures for the implementation f the project and its
components within the objectives of the project and the conditions ageed with
IDA;
(e)   coordinate the activiies under the project with those of other donors, seekng
IDA guidance where necessary;
(d)   develop and implement a finacial      n   system for the project, the
prcedures and conol for credit disbusements and counepart fuds to
enable adequate monit   and control of implementation of the annual
investment plan;
(e)   pve technical, financial, and admirive assistance and control of the
implementation of each component and activity by each of the executng units;
(f)   prepare tems of reference, supervi  the hiring of coltants under ms and
conditions satisfctory to IDA, and supervise the work of consuultans who
would assist in implemeing the project compont and carryng out studies;
(g)   help prepare and implement progams for the phased deentaliation of
financial and  intive                dget, resource allocation, cost
accoun= t, service pision    nents, and cost recovery) to the SILAIS
level, satisfactory to the MOH and IDA, according to agreed timetables;
(h)   assist the eaecutig units in the prcement rqired for project
implementtion, and ensure that the procurement of civil work, goods
(equipment), services and/or studies under eecution are in line with the
requiremes of the work progms for each program;
This office, which is under the d    supervion of the Minr of Heath, is primay mpnsible fr
SUS coordination.



NICARAGUA                          ANNEX 17
HEALTH SECTIOR REFORM PROJECT                  Page 2 of 3
(i)   review and approve on a preliminary basis the documents produced by
consulta and request final approval of these documents by MOH and IDA,
as required;
0)   advise MOH units, including the SILAIS level, of the formulation and
management of the health sector reform subprojects, and provide training and
support for resolving any problems that may arise in the various phases of
preparation and implementation;
(k)   coordinate and control the flow of funds for subprojects under execution,
report on the needs and progress of disbursenents, and assemble the necessary
information to request from IDA reimbursements of the funds utilized to
execute the project activities;
(I) require from MOH units, including the SILAIS level, periodic reports on the
physical and financial status of the subprojects;
(m)  maintain records of the operation of the Human Resources Development and
Emrenq Rehabilitation of Hospitals subprojects, the amounts approved and
disbursed, and progress indicators for each subproject under execution;
(n)   act as MOH counterpat for IDA missions with respect to the preparation,
coordination, submission, execution and other activities related to the project;
(o)   advise the MOH and the Management Committee on matters concerning the
project, reportng periodically on their physical and financial progress, and
proposing corrective measures;
(p)   develop and maintin a documentation system for the project in order to
generate complete and updated information on the progress of the
implementation plan for each of the components and of the project overall, in
line with specific indicators, and to permit the production of periodic reports
as agreed with IDA; and prepare annual progress reports and any special
reports requested by the MOH or IDA;
(a)   prpare trms of reerence, organize, coordinate and carry out the mid-term
review of project implementation; and
(r)  implement and supervise, with the support of the executing units, the project
completion report as agreed with IDA.
3.    Ordtion of the PCU
(a)   The Director would have the responsibility for overseeing project
implementation activities. The Director would respond direcdy to the Secretry
General of the MOH and would be the liaison between the PCU and the Coordinating
Comnuitee. The Director would keep the Coordinating Committee informed on the
performance and progress made in prqject implementtion, assess the project's
constrint, and take measures to overcome the constraints. The Director would
submit for iew the findigs, recommendations or decisions related to reforms of
instittional and operational policies resulting from reviews, sxdies, monitoring and
evahaion. The Diector wuld hae the responsibiliq for managing the day-to-day



NICARArUA                          ANNEX 17
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 3 of 3
operations of project implementadon, and would coordinate directly with the MOH
excuting units and the directrs of the SILAIS, INSSBI, and other public or private
institutions to speed up project implementation;
(b)   The Project Administation Coordinator would be responsible for the
administrative management and financial control of fte project and the coordination
between PCU units, would maintain updated accounts, disbursements, auditing
reports, and would prepare the anmual reports on the financial performance of the
project. The procurement specialist within this urit would be responsible for assisting
the MOH executing agencies and the CIPS in the procurement process; and
(c)   The respective Coordinators of each of the maini  project components
(institutional strengthening. PHC, pharmaceutical distribution and supply,
rehabilitation and maintenance, and technical assistance to INSSBI) would each be
responsible for the implementaton and monitoring of their component.
4.    Staffing  qumens. The PCU operations would be financed under the credit.
IDA would approve the terms of reference for each of the professional positions, and would
rview the CVs of the professionals prior to their appointments.



PROJECI ACIION PLAN
licy Objectiesl Projec Component   Subcomponent              Actions                              Comments
limited insditutional   Institutional  (Redefine MOH mission to focu on normative and    Signed policy letter has been fumished (para. 2.34)
Strgthning of    supervisory functions, with service delivery and some
MOH               management functions to be decentralized to the
Need to: improve                        SILAIS
_lagement control &                     Delegation of     Decentralize budget process to  Review of budget decentralization to be completed by
planning capability;                    Authority to the    allow all SILAIS to execute an  March 31, 1995 in view of SILAIS implementation
revise budtary                          SILAIS            increasing share of the budget  capability; action plan to be agreed by April 30,
practices; improve                                        by line item categories      1995; action plan to be implemented by June 1. 1995
MIS; human rsources                                        ___                          (paras. 4.4(a) & 8. I(a))
dpavlopmeaty                                              Improve resource allocation  "Corrected per capita system to be pilot ested in at
patmdolarly at                                      .     system though pilot testing of  least five SILAIS by January 1, 1995 (pas. 4A4(b)
mageral level;                                            "correctd per capita"        & 8.1(b))
needs tfig                                                mechanism and study of "per
mechanism                   expansion to all SILAIS, and of fasibiity of "cost
per capita of service delivery" to be completed by   0
June 30, 1993; to be discussed at mid-tm review;
action plan to be implemented by September 1,1 995
-__________________ __    (paras. 4.4(b) &   8.1(c))
10
Design and implement cost   Review of current limited-basis MOH cost accounting   Si
accounting system to provide   system to be completed and discussed by December
inputs for financial        31, 1994, exploring possibility of expansion to all
management, setting up of fees, hospitals and SILAIS; action plan to be implemented
and costing of services for  by February 1, 1995 (paras. 4.4(c) & 8.1(d))
resource allocation system   _
a% 00



s/PoIicy Objecims Project Component   Subcomponent                  Actions                             Commes
Design and implement service  Agreement on service provision arAgements wRs
provision arangements with   reacbed at negotiations (paras. 4.4(d) & 8.1(e))
SILAJS
.Signig of service provision aragments with at
least 3 SILAIS is a condition of credit effectivness
(paras. 4.4(d) & 8.2(a))
Signing of service provision arranemt with
SIAIS is a condition of disburement to each
SUIAIS under ame PHC compooen upaas. 4.4(d)    
8.3(a))
Review of implemenation of service provision
angemts bty Septmber 30. 1994; rview with
IDA by October 31, 1994; imp1en   of                    g
impmved service provision ange   in all
SILAIS by January 1. 1995 (paras. 4.4(d) & 8.1(f))
Study progress and potenial of lORs for study to be completed by Marc 31, 1994;  0
cost recovey measures       stdy to be completed by December 31, 1994;
recommendations to be implemented by Februy 1,
1995 (paas. 4.4(e) & 8.1(g))                        W
Human Resources   Develop human resources     Management training plan for Year I was presented
Deelopment        planning capability and design  for negotiations (piar. 4,5)
training pgms, particularly 
for the mangme  level at    Study of health labor maiket in Nicaagpa, with
both ftb MOH cetxi leMe and pararw atlnton to hiceasing the number of
at the SILAIS               ourses, to be completed by Septmbe 30, 1994,
reie*ed with IDA by October 31, 1994, and action
plan to be implemented by lanuary 1, 1995 (pam.
4.5 & 8.1(h))
Hiiman resouces deelopmat subptojects costing
mDre than US$75,000 and the fitst 3 subprojects to
requir IDA prior approval (pars. 4.8 & 8.1(i))_



lsueiqricy Objecdles Project Component [  Subcompoi m              Ac-ions                           - CoiMnefts
Funding subprojects to      Adoption of satisfiay Operational Manual is
stregen skills of SILAIS    condition of disbursemet for this subcomponen
managers; subprojects proposed (pars. 4.8 & 8.3(b))
by SILAIS, reviewed, and
approved according to
establised criteria
M gment           Develop MIS, provide        TORs for study and short list of consultants to be
InfOrmation SYstem  equipment, and train staff in   provided by April 30, 1994; recommendatons to be
(MIS)             using new modules on human   discussed and agreed by Decmber 31, 1994; action
resoure, finaning, budgeting  plan to be implemented by February 1, 1995 (paras.
and accounting, and         4.10 & 8.1(j))
pharmaceutical inventozy
Agreement on action plan is a codition of            t CZ
disbursemnt for computer hardware (pamns. 4.10 &
8.3(c))
nduate Model of   Primary Health Care Redefine PHC model to ensure that: (i) PHC      A satifctoy implementation schedule for PHC was
Prmar Health Care  (PHC)               services are uanaged locally; (ii) vertical programs   presented for negotiations (para. 4. 1 1)   
become integrated; and (iii) pn ventive care is                                                    0   ;
Need to: redefine                       emeained;_n __i_p __ntv _ar_sFollow up of integration of vertical programs using
PHC model; rationalize                 Essentist Drugs and Replenish basic inventory of    Presentation of satisfactory reduced essential drugs
peusoe of                              Supplies for Priority essential drugs and medical    list is a condition of disbursement for this   0
personel; integate                    Intrventions      supplies                     subcomponent (paras. 4.13 & 8.3(d))
secs umprove                           Iining of Health  Train services delivery      Progiiss in implementation to be reviewed at annual
rehablilste                           Services Delivery   personnel for more effective    and mid-erm reviews
infmstuctur and                        Personnel         prevetion and treament of
equipment                                                priority health problems
InDrmation,      Promote better health through   Progress in implementation to be reviewed at annial
Education, and    mass media communication,   and mid-term reviews
Communication    distribution of educational
Propm             materials, and local
dissemination
Go



IsuePlicy Obiwdves Projec Compono                                    Atios             [comments
Infrastructure and   R 1abiitate heailh posts and    Adoptim of saistory Operational Maxl fr PHC
Equipment         headth cents and small water  infsict  and eupmn  finacing is a conditon
and sanitation pojects, in  of disbursement for this subcomponenw (pares. 4.16 &
cooAdinston with FISH; basic  8.3(e))
medical and ofle equipment
would also be Afmded         Pgress in implementation to be reviewed at anuad
and mid-erm riews
Monitoring and    Moni.t    of prgss in         resentation of satisfctory supeision  anual with
Evaluation                 target indicatrs    key indicators is a conditon of disburen f*r the
PH{C comonR  IpmM. 4. 17 & 8.31f))                   ^
Cridis jna S      of    Phmaceutical    Policy, Regulation,  Redue constrants to use of    A detaed pharmaceutical sector segy was            C
I       bMMMWS&  and   Supply and       and Fmancing       generics; prepare lega caes  presented for negotiations  ar, 2.23(a))              M
MNicaA.lies          Distnbtion Sysem                      for purhas  by SILAIS (see
decentalizatiof budget     Studies on generics, legal changes, anti coaltena
Need to: imprve                                            above); and prepar stragy on donations to be compleled by Sepember 30, 1994,
procurement, stoe                                          afteral donatiolks           weiewed with MA, by Octb  31, 1994; and agreed
and distrlation;                                                                        action plan impkmnreda by December 1, 1994
s    _te en MIS;                                           Pilot prvate pharmacy program   panas. 4.19 & 8.1(k))
beio    use                                            to amie and tes diFet                                                               t
cost nfoofy me_u          at   Pilot prvae pharmacy to be implemented in M ga
ft wwoDwy level             bosial; pit to be compleWe by Ju  30, 1995.
reviewed with Ih  during midem   vw, and
aeed acto plan implemed by August 1, 199S
____________      ____________________   (pam . 4.20  &    8.1(1))
_mpremet of    Impov forecasting, supplie    Progrs in mDplem a    to be riewed at amnnal
Supply and        network, flexible delitery   and mid-term reviews
Ditibution System  conas, use of private sector;
stnthen the MIS at CIPS,
seviso; ncreae finaci
responsibility at health faciities
St~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           0  i



|isuelly Objectives Pjec COMPOnn            bc                      Actions 
Rational Use of   Study to measmue the magd iue  Study to be completed by December 31, 1994.
Drg               of lhe problem and ecommend  eviewed with IDA by Jamiay 31, 199S, and agreed
changes;  me pamacy and action plan implemented by March 1, 1995 (pars.
endical school curricula; train  4.21 & 8.1(m))
health personnel in the
application and promotion of
ationa use
D      aotioni Of    Rehabiliation and   Rehabilitate beath posts and health cen  included  Poss in implementation to be reviewed at annual
P    sd Paclis       Maintenance of    under the PHC component; design and implement a  mid-term revieui
Hospitals and Other mantance system 
Need to: rebabiite   Facilities         mReabilitate hospitals through a Selection citeria to be assesed at mid-em review
health postsK health                    Rehabilitation of    demand-driven mechanism   and adjstd if necessary (pame. 4.23(b))
cents and hosphals                      Hospitals         using pre-determined basic and
priority selection criteria  Annual reports on emergey ehabilitaon of
bospitl7s mbprojects to be provided; annual progress
reports and investment plan for coming yr to be
provided Iry Novebr 30 of each year (para.
4.23(c))                                             0
Maintenance System  Conduct studies Jbr: (i)   A health acilities maintenance policy was presented
for Health Facilities detemine maitance needs   for negotiations (para. 4.24)
and propose system; and (ii)                                                      o
examine recuent cost        Results of studies to be discussed and action plan
implications of nvestm      agreed by December 31, 1994; action plan to be
implemented by Marh 1, 1995 (paras. 4.24 &
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __-  8.1(n))



NICARArUA                ANNEX 18
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT     Page 6 of 6
8' ii.: 
l ilW
X  {I Uj'R  *1 }XJ
m~~
itI *~   I
g pl 1gill



NICARAGUA                                            ANNEX 19
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                                           Page 1 of 2
PROJECIMPLEMEATION SCHEDULE
1993      1994   _       1995 _196                   1987
Took Nsnme                       Q131   1140t 21: 31Q4Q101Q21Q3IQ410Q01  3aa  4  l|Q2l| Q
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF MON
De:bgation of Authoeity to SIUIS
Redef I MOH Missin=
Decentraization of Budgpt
Umited decentrliion
Reviw with IDA
Implment acton PlaN
Resource Allocafton Systen                                                              
Proposal for 'corrected pecapitae 
Plot  plmentation "corrected per capita
Study: corected per capita'
St     pr capih cot of d " l                                             T
Implmnt acion Plk"
Cost Accowimt Syst_m
Revwwith IDA
nwentaction plan
S=rvce Provn Agrwements
Limited implment8tio
Review with IDA
IImplment action plI
Cost Recovey_
TORs for study
S*d: cost recovery review with IDA
rMaagt of Hunan Reoces
| Rebw|              
Rehowwth IDA_
PRI bMAR   EAL   aCAREPM 
Deeop  in_agplogra m
TOR fo S  TrOf  HRu ml
st*  WP     ml- reiwWt.D
De Ma_ Infomin S                         
IEst&hch Cd _
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE                                                         -
_Definenal"PHC mdai  W1H                                            |lll             
Defkt loaeaon  b                                                  | 
ITrW  SAnb OD    Per_g                                           I        III        IZI  



NICARAGUA                                            ANNEX 19
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                                           Page 2 of 2
Develop training progrem-a                                          J tt111.n              
Implemnent tracni3   pronpam.
IEC Pronra _                                                               L  t   ef  I  j-I
Develop IEC progira
In&dement IEC prograin _g_=I~     - :~r
InrdrstructurQ & Nq!nDeat 3=U3;;is3    
SDefine selection critetia                          = - r
Produce mratinu  Manual=__= 
Implement aronram
Mordtoring    C Evaeuation
Produce Supervisio n Manual
PH A RMACEU    TICAL SUPPLY & DISTRIBUTION   SYSTEM                               Mm
Pok}y and Rogultdoienl  
Studics- gnerictrdos, lealchanps, donations           lll ==                
Irooement action pUen
I pmement of Supply & Distribution Systemn
D esign & test svsbm.. =                          
Nationallnplementatis n                 .
Consoridation &evaluatfion                                                    ;     --    ;;;;; ;I
Rato"  Uise of DruM    mqss
| Study- rational use                                                                                   
R nancigof Pharmacuticak                                      0|_
I PiXutprivate Oammac in Managua 4!nital                  t         l-                                        i 
| ReviewwfH IDA                                                                      .                .    
IRHB& MAUINT. OF HOSPITALS & OTHERS
LReSbiliation of Hospitab
|    Rndize ERF OpetatWl Manl                                       =| 
ReWiliata Hospitl                                            t-      
Review wth IDA 
b  gn* nt actionp                              . |                      t  -     '- r  --pa--         -
|  Mainance System fot Facities                                                                      S
Develop maitenanc po Mic                              =1                                         
Studlrmaintenan  3pyste& recuffent cost impicatiosWm              1 1L              
l mplenntactionpa &P                                                                  I  I  I  I  I  I    -- - ,-A ,,|,  
|TCNCAL ASSISTANCE TO INSSBI                      
TA for Health hurns--   1l|Xjsi                                                             --     
ITA for Worknens Compensation_IIII                                          IIIIIIIIIII
|TA for Pension Fund                                                                                     
PROJECT ADMINISTRATIONI    IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IProect Coord'ma*  Unit                                                                                
| TOR$: PW -C=          |||||||         
Fonnlv estab6ish PCU                   --         l=                                       
Mibstone    A      Swumay _



NICARAGUA                                   ANNEX 20
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                               Page 1 of 5
KEY MONiTORING INDICATORS
1.     The following indicators will be reviewed during the annual and mid-term reviews.
June 30, 1995.
A. Institutional Strengthening of MOH
(Process Indicators)
I ActUo   _            Yearl                     Year 2                   Year3
Deceutraliac budget   Continue current expenence Review of budget       Implement action plan;
process to allow all                           decentralization to be   progres to be reviewed
SILAIS to execute an                           completed by March 31,    during annual review
increasing share of the                        1995; acdon plan to be
budget by line item                            agreed by April 30, 1995
categories
Improve resource     'Corrected per capita"    Study of implementation of Implement action plan;
allocaton system     resource allocation system   "corrected per capita*  progress to be reviewed
formulated by September   system and of feasibility of  during anmual review
30, 1994; pilot           "per capita cost of
implemenwaion in at least 5 delivering health services'
SILAIS by January 1, 1995 system to be completed by
June 30, 1995; discussion of
study at mid-term review;
implementation of
recommendations startng
September 1, 1995
Design and implement Rview of current limited-  Implement action plan;  Implement action plan;
cost accountng system  basis MOH cost accounting progress to be rviewed at  progress to be reviewed
system to be discussed with mid-term and annual    during annual rview
IDA by December 31,      reviews
1994; implemation of
agreed actiou plan by
February 1, 1995
Depign and implement Review of service pwvision  Implement action plan;  Implement action plan;
se    provision      abrrgement by Sepember progress to be revwed at  progess to be reviewed
wom_ t with          30, 1994; discussion with   mid-term and annual    during annual review
SILA1S               IDA by October 31, 1994;  reviews
.implementtion of agreed
action plan in all SILAIS by
January 1, 1995
Study progress and    To be completed by       Implement                Implement
poteni  of cost      December 31, 1994;        recommendations; progress  recommendations; progress
recovery            implemenation of           to be reviewed at mid-term  to be reviewed during
reommendations starting   and annual reviews      annual review
February 1, 1995
Study of heath labor.  Tb be completed by      Implement action plan;   Implement action plan;
maket in Ni _a    Sepmber 30, 1994;            progress to be reviewed at  progress to be rwiewed
with pardcular       discussion with IDA by    mid-term and annual      during ann    rvew
ation on increasg October 31, 1994;            reviews
the number of nurse   impl    ion of action
plan by January 1, 1995



NICARAGUA                                  ANNEX 20
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                             Page 2 of 5
Acton                 Year           i          Year 2                   Year 3
Development of MIS   Short list of consultants to  Implement of action plan;  implement action plan;
be provided by April 30,   progress to be reviewed at  progress to be reviewed
1994; recommendations to  mid-term and annual     during annual review
be discussed by December  reviews
31, 1994; implementation of
action plan by February 1,
1 99S
B Primary Health Care
2.     Performance indicators are divided into quantitative and qualitative indicators. All
these indicators are not influenced only by the project; many different factors can influence
these outcome indicators. Besides, the division by intervention is only for degeriptive
purposes, because one outcome indicator can be evaluating many interventions (e.g., IMR
can evaluate water and sanitation, health and nutrition interventions simultaneously).
3.     Quanti ve Performance Indicators. Coverage, a measure of the proportion of a
tget population receiving some health service or engag  in a specific program (in this
cmse, the Nicaragua Health Sector project), is the most common type of performance
quantitative indicator. Coverage indicators related to health interventions are:
- .,
Inltervention         rCowage Indicators                             Year 1 f Year 2 Year 3
Preventive PHC    % of cildren under-5 w/growth monitoring & healt check-ups   45  50      55
(weighted average by population)
% of mothewith 4 or more prenatal controls               55      60      65
% of fuly mmunid children under-- with BCG (wegted       70      75      80
aveag by populaton)
% of fully  I    d cildn under- I with polio (weighted   85      89      92
average by populaion)
% of fully imunedchidren under-l for mensles (weighted   70      72      75
avage by population)
% of fully immunied children under-I for DPT (weighted   75      80      85
avage by population)
% of pregnant mothers imni red frteanus txoid           N/A*   N/A*  N/A*
% of women wing ORT in cae of diarhea                   NIA*   NtA*  NIA*
% of children under-S asied in ARI prgms                N/A*   NtA*  N/A*
Inegaed delivery  No. of posts with at least 2 auxiliary nrses             125    150    175
Of PHC SOV1ce    No. of posts covered with outah physician prgm             80     100    115
No. of centr & posts closed more ta 5 consecutive das   N/A*  N/A*  N/A*
No. of cenm & poss with the nesay matris, drugs and   N/A*  N/A*  N/A*
paper to provide an inta   service
No. of area nrse supervisions per centr and post per month    N/A*   N/A*  N/A*
* Data  ecuy unavailable for monitoring. These indicators will be included as the information system
in imnrnfwJ



NICARAGUA                                 ANNEX 20
HEALTH SECPOR REFORM PROJECT                            Page 3 of 5
Intervention                    Coverge Indicatos                    Year I Year 2 Year 3
Improvig amily   % of women of reproductive age covered with pills, condoms,  ' -19  20  24
planning education IUDs, sterilization
& services
Health education   No. of beneficiaries of health education prgrm       1,300  2,000  2,500
Strengthening of an % of traditional birth attendants trained by MOH      60     70      80
adequ-   :rral
,%les &          % of institutional births (weighted average by population)  53  56     60
emergency rooms
4.     QuaUlative Performance Indicators. In general, coverage is the preferred
performance indicator, with standards of quality defined into the coverage indicator.
Coverage has the great advantage of being population based and thus comes closer to being a
valid indicator of primary health care objectives. However, there is increasing recognition
that indicators of quality as well as coverage are important. Some important quality
indicators which can be useful for the evaluation of the project are:
ter-v on                        Coerge Indicators                    Year 1 YYear2   ar 3
Potab!e water and  Number of cente and posts with avalable water and latne  N/A*  N/A*  N/A*
latrines in health
centers and health
posts   __l
Intetd delivery  % of supervised personnel with appropriate use of clinical  N/A*   N/A*  N/A*
of PHC           histories in prenatal and child health care
% of missed opportniities of immunization, prenatl care or  N/A*  N/A*  N/A*
child health care
Improve family   % of missed opportunities for family planning education  N/A*  N/A*  N/A*
planning education
& services
Health and nutrition % of supervised centers and posts with all the necessary  N/A*  N/A*  N/A*
education        education materials
Strengtning of an % of registered matnal and innt deaths due to lack of  N/A*   N/A*  N/A*
adequate referal   services or poor quality of referral
system to
maternities and
emergency rooms
5.     Outcome Indicators. Outcome indicators are closer than performance indicators to
the ultimate objectives of the project, tending to complement one another, with outcome
indicators having higher construct validity and integration, and performance indicators having
higher sensitivity and specificity. Due to the their complementarity, a combination of
outcome and performance indicators is recommended to evaluate PHC investment.
* Data curentdy unavailable for monitoring. These indicators will be included as the information system



NICARAGUA                                  ANNEX 20
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                              Page 4 of 5
_ otervention                     Outcome Indikator                    irw 1 Year 21 Year 3
Prevention of    Registered infant moriality as a result of diarrhe, respiratoy  67%    6%
diarrhed diseases  diseases and perinatal causes as a percentg of total registered
and CDD program  inafnt morulity
Imunizations      Registered measles mortality rate (rate per 100,000)      10      5       1
Nutrition education % of low birthweight (ess than 2,500g)                 8.7%    8.4%    8.0%
Improving family   Registered abortions as a percenuge of expected pregnancies  4.7%    3.8%   3.0%
planning educaton  Percntage of deliveries by women less than 20 years old  20.5%   19.5%   18.0%
&   services       I__     _   _   _  _   _   __   _   _  _   _   _  _
Strengthenig of an Registered maternal mortality rate (rate per 100,000)    145    130    120
adequate referral
ystem to
maternities &
emergency rooms
C Pharmaceutical Supply System
I-dkatom                           Yea 1         Year 2         YeAr3
Reduce frequency of stockouts (as % reduction from       20.0%          25.0%         16.7%
previous year's levels)
Reduce average duration of stockot (days)**                30            21             15
Reduce unit costs fbr phamaceuticals and medical supplies  3.0%         3.1%           4.3%
(as % reduction from previous year's levels)        I
Reduce losses due to product expiation and deterioration in  25.0%      33.3%         50.0%
storage (as % reduction from previous year's levels)                              _
Reduce real operatig costs of the CIPS (as % reduction    5.0%          5.3%           5.6%
from prnvious year's levels)
Decrease in the unit price of the least expensive generic  3.0%         3.1%           4.3%
equivalent of each product on the vital products list (as %
reduction from previous years levels)
Proportion of products distributed by pnvate sector       5.0%          10.0%         15.0%
D   RehabiLon and   n            ae  of Hospitals and Other Facilities
Emergency Rehabilitation of Hospitals
LEmegency Rehabltation o Hoita          Year        _Year 2          Year 3
Number of Subpioject Requests                33            25            25
Value of Subproject Requests ($000)        2,765          1,725         1,925
Value of Subprojects Appraised ($000)      2,515         1,565          1,750
(number of subprojecs in parentheses)       (30)          (23)          (23)
Value of Subprojects Approved ($000)       1,850          1,365         1,285
(number of subprojects in paentes)          (17)          (20)          (18)
Value of Subprojects Disbursed ($000)      1,200          1,675         1,625
* Stockout {s defined to occur when one or more items on a reduced vitl products Hist  out of stock.



NICARAGUA                                  ANNEX 20
IEALTH SECrOR REFORM PROJECr                              Page 5 of S
Mantnace
Acdon                VW .                Yew 2              Year 3
Maintenance Study       Complee study by    Iplemen action    Implement action
Septmber 30, 1994; plan; progrss to be  plan; progress to be
discuss wilDA by    reviewed at mid-tam  reviewed at annual
October 31, 1994;   and annuma eviews   review
strt implementig
acion plan by
January 1, 1995
Recrnt Cost Study       Complete study by   Implement action    Implement action
Seter 30, 1994; plan; progress to be  plan; progrss to be
discss w/IDA by    reviewed at mid-term  revimmed at annual
October 31, 1994;   and annual reviews   review
start implemen_t
acton plan by
_Jamny 1,1995
E. iechnical Assistance to INSSBI
(lbrget Completion Dates)
Acton                      Year.  I             Yar 2                Y ear 3
Emplkyes Module                      April 1994
Beneficaries Modules                  June 1994
(niCatiwand actur)
Health Provides Module                May 1994
Health Services Module               June 1994
MIS Implemento                     December 1994
_Managemen Support              _____________  _____________                 December 1996
Weki Compe
Design of Model                                           March 1995
Implemeneion                                                                   ebruary 1996
PNeU   h=d                                                  March 1995
F. CostR ew y
(Target Revenues, US$ million)
j   ActionbYar 1    i    Year 2                     iear3 3
Sales of services to INSSBI      4.0             8.0            12.3
Sala of services to non-         0.5             1.0             1.5
affiliates of INSSBI



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 21
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 1 of 4
COORDINATION BETWEE DONORS
1.    Several donor agencies are at the project preparation or initiating stage. USAID,
Sweden, and Holand have apprv  projects to finance 12 of the 19 SILAIS to help imp
their mana     capacity and support a number of pnority PHC pgms   IDB will
implement a US$4.0 million project to: (a) help increase MOH's investent planing
capacity; (b) strgen hospital management; (c) study alternative sources of finaning; and
(d) develop studies on supply and demand of health services as well as feasibility studies that
would provide a pipeline of health subprojects for financing. Recently, the Government of
Japan has approved US$9.3 million equivalent financing for hospital equipment. Thus, it
will be crucial to ensure proper donor coordination to avoid overlaps or contradictions that
may potentially slow down project implementation. This Annex shows: (a) how the project
has been designed so that IDAMs participation would complement that of other donors; and
(b) how donor coordination would be carried out durng project implemeation.
A. Donor CwrUnation During Project DeIg
2.    The first element of coordination has been at the project design stage. During project
preparation, IDA and other donors have held regular working meeing with the Goverment
to ensure that: (a) all projects would be designed to support the Goverments overall
strate  for the sector; (b) there would be no overlap between areas of support; and (c)
implementation mechanisms and monitoring indicators would be as similar as possible,
especially in the area of support to primary health care. The MOH's Office of Exrnal
Cooperation has been crucial in donor coordimation during project preparation. This s6ction
will neview each of the areas covered by proposed IDA project subcomponemts and how they
were designed with respect to the participation of other donors.
3.    Component A - Instonl Stgthe   of the MOH. The division of labor
among donors is as follows:
(a)   Cost PgyM. USAID will finance a study and a pilot progm  on
alternative sources of finacing. IDB will finance a similar study. The IMA project
does not provide financig to that effect, but conditionality would be inclded to
request the Government to disuss the study results with IDA and agree on a plan of
action. TORs for the stdy would be prepared joitly by 1DB, the Goement, and
IDA;
(b)   MS. IMA would finance the design of an overall MIS and its implemenaon
at the central office level. USAID would finance the MIS at the SILAIS level and
IDB would finance MIS in hospitals. Care would be tken by the Gomrment in the
preparation of detailed TORs (that would be reviewed by IDA) to ensre that the
sysms are compadble and intgrted as much as possible; and
(c)   lhanjng. The. training of the central MOH office staff woudd be finaced by
IDA. Iaining at the SILAIS level would be shared between IDA, USAID, Sweden
(with support from PAHO), and Holland along the lines of the division of labor of the



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 21
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 2 of 4
PHC componen (para. 4 below). Training of hospital managers would be finaned
by lDR
4.    Component 8- Primar Healtb Care. The MOH and the donors have reached
infrmal agreement on the following defacto divison of labor. This allocation of
responsibilities will allow MOH to bunch vigorous PHC initiatives in each of Nicaragua's 19
SILAIS. Distribution of SILAIS by donors is as follows:
Donor                         SILAIS
IDA                           Boaco
Carazo
Granada
Masaya
RAAN
Rivas
Rio San Juan
SWEDEN (ASDI)                 Madriz
Estell
Nueva Segovia
Chinandega
Le6n
RAAS
USAID                         Managua Central
Managua Oriental
Managua Occidental
Jinotega
Matagalpa
HOLLAND (FORSAP)              Chontales
(a)   Sweden. Starting in 1993, the Swedish Iernational Development Agency
(ASDI), has been working though MOH, PAHO and UNICEF as implementing
agents to support development of six SILAIS: Nueva Segovia, Madriz, Esteli,
Chinandeg, Le6n and the Southern Atlanic Autonomous Region (RAAS). Their
US$9 million, tbree-year SLAIS development project will provide training, technical
asistace, and commodities to support activities related to PHC efforts and
imprvwe       in administ  and managerial procedures. No funding for
medicines was included, because at the time of the Swedish project preparation there
was no indication by the Govermment that measures would be taken to remedy the
lack of an efficient pharmaceutical supply system and guarantee drugs delivery at the
heal centers and posts. There is a small fumding for infrstructur rehabilitation and
equipments (13.3%) and to support PHC activities (19%). Most of the funding is for
the sgthening of management capacity, human resources development, community
partiipaion, ealuation, and operational and adminisative costs (67.7%). Project
adves have been delayed because of cumbersome implementation a  mn
which are currendy being revised;



NICARAGUA                          ANNEX 21
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 3 of 4
(b)   USAIID. USABD has prepared the Decentralized Health Services Project
(DHS, 524-0327) in 5 SILAIS: the three SLAIS in Managua (Cental, Occidental
and Oriental), Matagalpa and Jinotega. The project has four components: (a) an
accelerated start component (ASC), principally with technical assistance in prventive
PHC for the MOH at the beginning of the project; (b) the maternal and child survival
component, which will operate in the five SILAIS, except in immunization and family
planning, where USAID is supporting the immuniztion prognrm and contraceptives
for the whole country; (c) management and financial decentralization, which will help
develop and inplement a financial management system and establish an MIS for all
19 SILAIS; and (d) alternate sources of finance (discussed above). The total value of
the USAID financing will be US$22 million over four years, distributed in technical
assistance (30%), commodities (10%), medicines (12%), training (14%), evaluation
and audit (1%), contraceptives (12%), immunization (16%), and contingencies and
inflation (5%);
(c) Holland. The FORSAP (Fortalecimiento de Salud Primaria) project has been
operatng in the Chontales SILAIS since 1992 in preventive PHC at the health
centers, health posts, and at the community level with training to community health
workers. The total cost of the project for three years is US$3.08 million equivalent
divided in technical assistance (10%), investments, including rehabilitation of
infratructure and equipments (45%), current costs of drugs (5%) and supplies (11%),
training (24%), and conftingencies (5%). This project has been working fairly vell in
close relationship with the SILAIS director and MOH authorities;
(d)   FISE. One of the larest donor-funded activities in Nicaraguats social sector
is the Social Investment Fund (FISE). With support from donors, FISE will
reabilitat existng health and education facilities. There would be direct
complementarity between the proposed health sector project and the FISE, which does
not have sufficient funds to cover all rehabilitation needs at the primary level. A
schedule of rehabilitation activities undertaken or to be undertaken by FISE is being
prepared and will be shared with MOH and the individuals SILAIS thoughout the
project. SILAIS will be enoraged to make kwwn their needs for FISE-financed
rehabilitation of facilities through the appropriate channels; and
(e)   Design of the PHC Component. IDA, USAID, Sweden, and Holland have
been in close contact during project preparation. As a result, all the donors support a
redefined model of primary health care adopted by the MOH, namely a model
focusing on integration of programs, accent on preventive care, and delegation of
simple tasks to nurses, auxiliary nurses, and midwives. The model would be
implemented in a decentralized fashion. Efforts would be concentrated on diarrheal
diseases, ARI, malmtrition, matenal health, family planning, and malaria and
tuberculosis when the case applies. The level of donor funding per SILAIS is fairly
similar, although it varies in accordance to local needs.
5.    Component C - Pharmaceutical Supply System. The main donors will be
DANIDA and IDA, who will address: policy reform and regulation, local pammig,
amnlv and distribution. financing, and rational use. The DANIDA proiect is currently being



NICARAGUA                          ANNEX 21
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 4 of 4
rviewed by the Government and may be phased or downsized in view of the MOH's new
stratgy of contracting more services to the private sector.
6.    Component D - Rehabiation and Maintenance of Hospitals. The Japanese grant
for 17 hospitals is currently bewg disbursed. The IDB project includes the development of
studies on demand and supply of health services and feasibility studies for investments in
hospital infrastructure. Tb avoid overlap with other projects, the project's emergency
rehabilitation of hospitals has been conceived as a source of fumding of last resort: a basic
eligibility criteria is that subproject requests confirm that no alternative sources of financing
are available.
7.    Component E - Technical Assistance to INSSBI. IDA and UNDP are the only two
instiutions currently providing assistance to INSSBI. UNDP's assistance consists of the
financing of technical assistance to help prepare and implement institutional reforms
complementary to those contemplated under the project.
8.   Role of Germany and Norway. Germany and Norway have been closely involved
with IDA in the project preparation and appraisal process and will rely largely on IDA's
Staff Appraisal Report. Norway would cofinance the project with IDA while Germany
would undertake parallel financing. Norway would finance PHC while Germany would
finance infrastructure (probably rehabilitation of hospitals and local warehouses for
phamaceuticals).
B  Donor Coordination During Project Implementadon
9.    The similarity of project design between various donors wiUl help facilitate
implementation of complementary projects by the Government. Nevertheless, additional
measures will be taken to ensure donor coordination. First, the Secretary General's office
will ensure coordination among the SILAIS and between the SILAIS and the central office of
the MOH by the Secretary Generalrs office. Second, donors' assistance will be added to the
national health budget befbre allocation of funds to the SILAIS. This is a major step to
avoid distortions between SILAIS. Third, the MOH will establish a policy regarding
donations of drugs, which in the past have caused significant distortions in the system.
Finally, during project implementation and supervision, IDA, other donors, and the
Goernment will hold regular meetings to exchange experience, avoid overlaps, and ensure
efficiency of project implementation.



NICARAGUA                          ANNEX 22
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 1 of 3
SUPERVISION PLAN AND MID-TERM REVIEW
1.    Given the project's comprehensive approach to urgently needed reforms and
efficiency improvements in the MOH at both the cental and SILAIS levels, extensive and
close supervision would be required during project implementation. The proposed project
would require an aerage of about 25 staffweeks of supervision per year. The supervision
team would be carefully planned, and would be a combination of IDA staff and consultants
with specialties in public health administration, institutional development, health care
financing, primary and secondary health care, pharmaceutical and medical supplies, and
mangement information systems (see proposed supervision plan below).
2.    A project launch workshop would be organized prior to project effectiveness (third
quarter of FY94) to assist the MOH and INSSBI senior staff and the PCU develop a common
understanding of the project's overall development objectives, operational procedures,
coordination needs and potential implementation constraints.
Focus:            Reviewing and adjusting (as needed) implementation plan; identifying
and planning required coordination among the PCU, MOH, and
INSSBI executing units at both central and regional levels; reviewing
project management requirements, procurement, disbursement and
auditing procedures; and reviewing the plan for hiring of consultants.
Duration:         Four days
Participation
of IDA Staff:     - Task Manager
- Inst. Dev./Social Security (C)
- Health Care Spec. (C)
- Procurement Specialist
- Disbursement Specialist
3.    The project launch workshop would be followed by additional supervision input to
fmiliarize selected MOH staff with IDA's procurement procedures, disbursement, and
auditing procedures and guidelines. The workshop would also reconfim a cooperative
agreement between the project and FISE to transfer procurement and disbursement
experience with IDA.
4.    Annual Reviews. The annual review meetings would be ornized by the PCU and
would take place in November of each year, starting in November 1994. The anual reviews
would evaluate project performance against implementation plans and agreed targets and
provide management with feedback on project achievements and on issues and areas needing
improvement. Each year, IDA and the Government would review progress made against
agreed indicators and include, whenever applicable: (i) review of implementation of sector
strategies, including actual expenditures by the MOH on primary and secondary health care;
(ii) analysis of the implementation of each of the project's components during the previous
year (i.e., targets, decentralization progress, budgetary allocations, functioning of
implementation arangements, man issues, and remedial actions to overcome the
constraints); (iii) review of work plan for the coming period; and (ir) modifications in



NICARAGUA                          ANNEX 22
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 2 of 3
project design, if needed, to adjust to changing circumstances. Thus the supervision missions
would provide for on-going refinements in project strategies and plans, consistent with the
overall objectives of the project.
5.    The Mid-Term Review to be conducted in June, 1995 would cover the normal
supervision subjects, but with a wider scope (requiring an additional 10 staffweeks of
supervision), and would have specific emphasis on: (i) implementation of sectoral policy
reforms, including coordination with other donor projects; (ii) decentralization of authority to
the SILAIS, particularly for financial management and resource allocation with transparency;
(ii) review and expansion of service provision arrangements; (iv) progress of training
programs and results of evaluation of the medical labor market; (v) implementation of the
PHC program, including the redefined primary health care model; (vi) reform of the
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies system; and (vii) results of s&idies and recommended
action plans. In addition, the mid-term review will result in an agreed update set of targets
and actions for the final year of project implementation.
6.    The terms of reference for the mid-term review are presented below:
(a)   Sector Policies: progress made in the reform of the health sector in the MOH
and INSSBI (as per policy letter) and in the overall coordination of sector activities,
including all donor projects;
(b)   Institutional Strengthening: progress made in the implementation of the action
plan related to MOH institutional strengthening and its subcomponents, particularly in
the decentralization process as regards financial management, resource allocation, cost
recovery, and cost ac.counting systems;
(c)   Primary Health Care: progress made in the implementation of the redefined
primary health care model, the priority interventions, the training of service delivery
personnel, and the training of SILAIS managers;
(d)   Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies: review of progress on revision of 1926
Pharmacy Law, progress in strengthening of National Quality Control Laboratory,
discussions on the implementation of the essential drugs list, reform of the
procurement, storage, and distribution systems and on study results, including the
feasibility of privatzing distribution mechanisms;
(e)   Emergency Rehabilitation of Hospitals: progress made in the implementation
of the program, quantity and quality of subprojects financed, implementation of action
plans resulting from maintenance and recurrent cost studies;
(f)   INSSBI: progress made in the implementation of the health insurance
program, workmen's compensation program, and discussion of the results of the study
on the reform of the pension fund; and
(g) Project Management and Coordination: the review would focus on the PCU's
ability to coordinate project implementation with MOH executing units and other
government agencies to achieve the project's objectives. The composition of the PCU
would be analyzed during the mid-term review to assess if it is providing adequate
technical support to the executing units. Compliance with IDA guidelines and actual



NICARAGUA                                   ANNEX 22
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM PROJECT                               Page 3 of 3
performance on procurement and disbursement during the period under review would
be assessed. This analysis would indicate if there will be a need to strengthen the
PCU in the specific areas under review.
SUPERVISION/PROJECT LAUNCH
ANNUAL RESOURCES
TIMING                      SUPERVISION TEAM                   STAFFING
- ._            I_ A  ___________________________              _(_ (In Weeks)
FY 94    3rd Qtr.  Task Manager                                          1
(Mar. 94) Inst. Dev./Social Security Spec. (C)                  I
(5 SW)   Proiect  Health Care Spec. (C)                                  1
lLaunch  Procurement Spec.                                     I
WorkshoR Disbuisement Spec.                                     1
2nd Qtr. Task Manager                                          2
FY95   (Nov. 94) Inst. Dev./Social Security Spec. (C)                   2
Health Care Spec. (C)                                2
(25 SW)            Health Economist                                      2
Pharm. & Med. Supplies/Logistics Spec. (C)           2
MIS Spec. (C)                                        2
lHospital & Fac. Admin. Spec. (C)                    2
3rd Qtr.  Task Manager                                         2
(Mar. 95) Inst. Dev./Social Security Spec. (C)                  1
Health Care Spec. (C)                                2
Health Economist                                     2
Pharm. & Med. Supplies/Logistics Spec. (C)           2
l_______ Procurement Spec.                                      2
Ist Qtr.  Task Manager                                        2
FY96   (Jul. 95)  Inst. Dev./Social Security Spec. (C)                  2
Mid-Term  Health Care Spec. (C)                                2
(25 SW)   Review   Health Economist                                      2
Pharm. & Med. Supplies/Logistics Spec. (C)           2
MIS Spec. (C)                                        2
Hospital & Fac. Admin. Spec. (C)                     2
l_______ Procurement Spec.                                      2
2nd Qtr.  Task Manager                                         1
(Nov. 95) Health Economist                                      I
Inst. Dev./Social Security Spec. (C)                 1
Pharm. & Med. Supplies Spec./Logistics (C)            1
3rd Qtr. Task Manager                                          1
(Mar. 96) Health Economist                                      I
Hospital & Fac. Admn. Spec. (C)                       1
Health Care Spec. (C)                                 1
________ MIS Spec. (C)                                          1
2nd Qtr. Task Manager                                          2
FY971'  (Nov. 96) Inst. Dev./Social Security Spec. (C)                   2
Health Economist                                     2
(25 SW)            Pharm. & Med. Supplies/Logistics Spec. (C)            2
Procurement Spec.                                    2
3rd Qtr.  Task Manager                                         2
(Mar. 97) Inst. Dev./Social Security Spec. (C)                 2
Primary Health Care Spec. (C)                        2
Health Economist                                     2
Others'                                              7
1 To be identified according to project implementation requirements.



NICARAGUA                           ANNEX 23
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 1 of 1
DOCUMENWM IN PROJECI FILE
1. Agencia de Cooperacion Ineternacional del Jap6n, Estudio del Disefio Bdsico par El
PrVecto de Meioramiento Nacional del Sistema Hospitalario en la Renablica de
Nicaragua, December 1991.
2.    Cross, P., "Pharmaceutical Component", Consultant Report, Management Sciences
for Health, September 8, 1993.
3.    de GeYndt, W., "Managing Health Expenditures Under National Health Insurance,
The Case of Korea", World Bank Technical Paper No. 156.
4.    MOH, Plan Maestro de Salud 1991-1996. Resunen Ejecutvo.
5. MOH, Marco Conceptual - Sistemas Locales de Atenci6n Integral a la Salud (Se ne
SILAIS 1), July 1991.
6. MOH, Andlisis de la Situacion de Desarrollo de la Fuerza de Ihabajo de Salad, April
1988.
7. MOH, Modelo de Atenci6n Integral Materno-Infandl, November 1993.
8.    MOH, Manual for Training of Health Services Delivery Personnel, 1993.
9.    MOH, IEC Program and Planning Manual
10.   MOH, Emergency Rehabilitation Operational Manual
11.   MOH and Universidad Nacional Aut6noma de Nicaragua, Escuela de Sl  Piblica
de Nicaragua PROCAVAN, April 1993.
12.   Peirano, J., 'Consultorfa Plan de Mod&ficaci6n del Regimen de Accidentes del
Thabajo y Enfermedades Profesionales", INSSBI
13. World Bank, Republic of Nicaragua: Review of Social Sector Issues (Report No.
10671-NI), February 3, 1993.



NICARAGUA                                             HONDURASUOA,
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                                                                               YWAIAN
Projt SILAS
-      SILAIS division boundaries
6    Nationol capitol
C' Gies and tows_                                                                     ,g
-  Internatonal Bondaries        }                                                        sH
14* tE  X Z 
fT,    J f N O r E G A/                                              CARIBTA GC_N  AR18BEAN SEA
WOUNTA tAGOON'
':UtF          o7 E STrE tt>  
0   20  40  60  00  100  120  140  160
CHI    NEG       -L E O                                                                                                                     I M RanASijowZZw*
ch  Meiorsv   BOACO                                                    I \  i -
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L -'uiAd hd                                                                   LILES=PE;. CIIBFAOL ,,,, i w CESlA  iw
MASA         Juigdpa   CHONTAL,E
M"GUA OPJSNTAL                                                       B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'LUEPE110S Ae 
MANAGUA CEtNA41       //   "<,+   iAKE                \                                                               S^1ADOR
MA'tAGVA ~~~OCCDNSC\ t   N ICA  A   Gu A
RI VA0 NARACGUAARAGUA
t t  *  o\ Pt,NTA COG,A3AY                          Ar of Map
PACIFIC OCEAN          Sont Juon del 9s;2=7   Stw  nOSS C44
COSTA                               AIAI\~~~~~~~~~~S JuanU No?ft "A VO@TM        IC
2 C O S T A                                                          0q tn JtAtl iso  to0  O lt0
*UnderthePrimaryHeoh Carecomponent.                    RICA                                                                                              PAM



