CREDIT NUMBER         NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                         , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER'?S NI
DEVELOPHMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       1993, between REPUBLIC
OF   NICARAGUA  (the   Borrower)  and   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Association has received a letter dated November 17,
1993 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve a reform of its health sector
(hereinafter  called   the  Program),   declaring  the  Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in the financing of the Project;
(C)   the Borrower intends to receive from the Government of
Norway (Norway) a grant (the Norway Grant) in an amount equivalent
to $3,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Norway Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and Norway; and
(D)   the Borrower, Norway and the Association intend to enter
into an agreement (the Administration Agreement) making arrangements
for the Association to process applications for withdrawal of the
proceeds of the financing to be provided severally by Norway and the
Association and regulating certain other matters of common interest
in connection with such financing; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set fErth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parvies hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions   Applicable   to
Development   Credit   Agreements"  of   the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Beneficiary" means collectively an HRD Benefici-ry, an
I&E Beneficiary and a Rehabilitation Beneficiary (all as defined
below);
(b)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banco Central de
Nicaragua;
(c)   "Emergency Rehabilitation Operational Manual" means the
manual to be adopted by MOH (as defined below), in form and
substance  satisfactory   to  the  Association,  establishing   the
procedures for the promotion, identification, appraisal, approval,
implementation   and   monitoring   of  Emergency   Rehabilitation
Subprojects (as defined below) referred to in paragraph 3 (f) of
Schedule I to this Agreement;
(d)   "Emergency Rehabilitation Subproject" means a subproject
for the rehabilitation of any of MOH's (as defined below) hospitals
which is eligible for financing by MOH in accordance with the
provisions of the Emergency Rehabilitation Operational Manual;
(e)   "HRD Beneficiary" means a SILAIS (as defined below) or
a department of MOH (as defined below) at headquarters which meets
the eligibility criteria set forth in the HRD Operational Manual (as
defined below) and which proposes to carry out or is carrying out an
HRD Subproject (as defined below);
(f) "IHRD Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted
by MOB (as defined below), in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, establishing the procedures for the promotion,
identification, appraisal, approval, implementation and monitoring
of HRD Subprojects (as defined below) referred to in paragraph 3 (d)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)   "ERD  Subproject"   means   the   training   or  other
communication activities which are eligible for financing by MOH (as
defined below) in accordance with the provisions of the HRD
Operational Manual;


﻿-3-
(h)   "I&E Beneficiary" means a PHC SILAIS (as defined below)
which meets the eligibility criteria set forth        in  the I&E
Operational Manual (as defined below);
(i) "I&E Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted
by MOH (as defined below), in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, establishing the procedures for the promotion,
identification, appraisal, approval, implementation and monitoring
of I&E Subprojects (as defined below) referred to in paragraph 3 (e)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(j) "I&E Subproject" means a water and/or sanitation
subproject or a subproject for the rehabilitation of health centers
and/or health posts which is eligible for financing by MOH (as
defined below) in accordance with the provisions of the I&E
Operational Manual;
(k)   "INSSBI" means Instituto Nicaragfiense de Seguridad Social
y Bienestar, the Borrower's social security institute established
pursuant to the INSSBI Decree;
(1)   "INSSBI Decree" means the Borrower's decree law No. 4-90
published in the Official Gazette No. 87 on May 8, 1990;
(m)   "INSSBI Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and INSSBI pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to such agreement;
(n)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(o)   "PCU" means the Project coordinating unit established
pursuant to Ministerial Resolution No. 28-93 dated November 5, 1993;
(p)   "PHC SILAIS" means any of the SILAIS (as defined below)
with jurisdiction over the following departments: Boaco, Carazo,
Granada, Masaya, Regi6n Aut6noma del Atlintico Norte, Rivas and Rio
San Juan;
(q)   "Primary Health Care Model" or "PEC Model" means the
health care model described in the document furnished by the
Borrower to the Association on November 17, 1993;


﻿-4
(r)   "Primary Health Care Supervision Manual" means the manual
to be adopted by MOH, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, establishing the procedures for supervision of Part B.5
of the Project referred to in paragraph 3 (h) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(s)   "Rehabilitation Beneficiary" means any of MOH' s hospitals
which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Emergency
Rehabilitation Operational Manual;
(t)   "Service  Provision Arrangement" means any     of  the
arrangements to be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.07
of this Agreement;
(u)   "SILAIS" means any of MOH's departmental health units;
and
(v)   "Subproject" means collectively an HRD Subproject, an I&E
Subproject and an Emergency Rehabilitation Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2004 and, ending October 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.


﻿-6-
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines- that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Minister of Health or any person he or
she may designate in writing is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
(b)   The Executive President of INSSBI or any person he or she
may designate in writing is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part E of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)    shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project through MOH with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial, administrative, management,
health and env,.ronmental practices, and shall
provide,   promptly  as   needed,   the  funds,
facilities,   services  and   other   resources
required for such Parts of the Project; and
(ii)    shall cause INSSBI, pursuant to the provisions
of the Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out Part E
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate economic,
financial,   administrative,   management   and
environmental practices, shall take or cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable INSSBI to
carry out Part E of the Project, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out
of Part E of the Project by INSSBI.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of
the Project and shall cause INSSBI to carry out Part E of the
Project, all in accordance with: (i) the Implementation Program set
forth  in   Schedule  4  to  this  Agreement;   and  (ii) Project
implementation and impact indicators acceptable to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated for Part E of the Project to INSSBI under a subsidiary
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and INSSBI, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association, which shall include those set forth in Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.


﻿-8-
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with
its obligations under the INSSBI Subsidiary Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change,
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the INSSBI Subsidiary Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, wnrks and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part
E of the Project shall be carried out by INSSBI.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under the
General Conditions and under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall:
(a)   allocate in its annual budget for calendar years 1994
through 1996, and each calendar year thereafter, the following
minimum amounts, as counterpart funds for the financing of the
Project:
(i)   $1,000,000 equivalent for calendar year 1994;
(ii)   $700,000 equivalent for calendar year 1995; and
(iii)   $400,000 equivalent for calendar year 1996 and
each calendar year thereafter; and
(b)   advance, from the amounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, and no later than the first day of each quarter,
amounts sufficient to cover the counterpart funding requirements for
the Project during such quarter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree:


﻿-9-
(a)   HRD Subprojects shall be promoted, identified, appraised,
approved, carried out and monitored in accordance with the
procedures set forth or rRferred to in the HRD Operational Manual;
(b)   Emergency Rehabilitation Subprojects shall be promoted,
identified, appraised, approved, carried out and monitored in
accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the
Emergency Rehabilitation Operational Manual;
(c)   I&E Subprojects shall be promoted, identified, appraised,
approved, carried out and monitored in accordance with the
procedures set forth or referred to in the I&E Operational Manual;
and
(d)   supervision under Part B.5 of the Project will be carried
out in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in
the Primary Health Care Supervision Manual.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to its obligations under
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, in respect
of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, and shall cause INSSBI in
respect of Part E of the Project, to:
(a)   promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress of the
Project or the Subprojects, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance of INSSBI of its obligations under
the INSSBI Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)  not later than September 30 each year, furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association a report, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, containing, inter alia: (i) a list
of Subprojects approved by MOH; and (ii) the Borrower's and INSSBI's
progress in carrying out the Program and the Project;
(c)   not later than September 30 each year, furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association for its approval, the operating
plans for all parts of the Project proposed to be carried out during
the following year including, as a part thereof, the corresponding
budgets   and  the  related  Project   implementation  and   impact
indicators, and specifying the extent of compliance with the
operating plans submitted the prior year, and implemented during
that year;


﻿- 10 -
(d)   not later than November 30 each year, review with the
Association its progress in the implementation of the Program and
the Project;
(e)   not  later  than  June   30,  1995,  review  with  the
Association, in addition to the matters referred to in paragraph (d)
hereof: the progress made in the institutional strengthening of MOH
and its impact on strengthening the SILAIS' decentralization
process, the results and expansion of the SILAIS' decentralization
mechanisms, the impact of the redefined PHC Model on the efficiency,
quality and equity of the delivery of health care services, and the
selection criteria for Emergency Rehabilitation Beneficiaries; and
(f)   if the results of any of the reviews referred to in
paragraphs (d) and (e) hereof are not satisfactory to the
Association: (i) not later than sixty days after the respective
review, furnish to the Association an action plan, satisfactory to
the Association, with the actions necessary to achieve adequate
progress in the carrying out of the Project and in meeting the
objectives of the Project and the performance and implementation
indicators referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
and (ii) take promptly, all actions included in such action plan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through MOH, make service
provision arrangements with each of the PHC SILAIS participating in
Part B of the Project, under the terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained, in respect of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, and
shall cause INSSBI in respect of Part E of the Project to maintain
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound   accounting  practices,   the  operations,   resources  and
expenditures in respect of their respective Parts of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause INSSBI to:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing


﻿- 11 -
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish   to  the   Association,  as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, ac,counts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause INSSBI to:
(i)    maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other    documents)   evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's    representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause INSSBI:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance   with   sound  administrative,   financial,  economic,
management and environmental practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers; and
(c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its office
buildings, equipment and other property. and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   INSSBI  shall have   failed  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations under the INSSBI Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that INSSBI will be
able to perform its obligations under the INSSBI Subsidiary
Agreement;
(c)   INSSBI Decree shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the
Association, materially and adversely the operations or the
financial condition of INSSBI or its ability to carry out Part E of
the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the INSSBI
Subsidiary Agreement;


﻿- 13 -
(d)   the HRD Operational Manual or the I&E Operational Manual
or the Emergency Rehabilitation Operational Manual or the Primary
Health Care Supervision Manual shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the
Association, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to
carry out Parts A.2 (b), B.4, D.1 and B.5 of the Project;
(e)   the Norway Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1994, or such later date as the Association
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligation of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(f)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms thereof; or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)    subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)   adequate  funds   for  the   Project  are
available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-14-
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the INSSBI Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into
between the Borrower and INSSBI; and
(b)   Service Provision Arrangements have been made with at
least three PRC SILAIS.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely that the INSSBI Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and INSSBI in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date / 4/4p) /Z /               is hereby
specified for the purposes Qf Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date 15
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Frente al Edificio de la
Asamblea Nacional
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua
Telex:
BCN NK 2460
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 16 -
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF FICARAGUA
Authorized Repre ntative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE i
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works under                 431,000        90%
Part C.2 (b) of
the Project
(2) Goods:
(a) for Part C              287,000)       100% of foreign
(other than                    )       expenditures,
C.2 (c)) of                     )       100% of local
the Project                     )      expenditures
)       (ex-factory
(b) for Part E               72,000)       cost) and 75%
of the                          )       of local ex-
Project                         )      penditures for
)       other items
)       procured
)       locally
(3) Medical                      431,000       100%
equipment
under Part
B.1 of the
Project


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Pharmaceuticals            1,435,000        100% until with-
drawals under this
Category have
reached an aggre-
gate amount equi-
valent to
SDR570,000; there-
after, 50% until
withdrawals have
reached an aggre-
gate amount
equivalent to
SDR 860,000; and
25% thereafter
(5) PCU Goods                    215,000        100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(6) Training:
(a) for Parts B.2           617,000)        90%
and C.3 of                     )
the Project                    )
(b) for Part E of           172,000)
the Project                    )


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7) Consultants'                      )         100%
services:                         )
(a) for Parts A,         1,944,000)
B, C and D of                 )
the Project                   )
(b) for Part E             402,000)
of the Project                )
(c) for the PCU            453,000)
(8) MIS                        646,000          90%
(9) Subprojects:                      )         90% of amounts
)          disbursed by MOH
(a) HRD Sub-               287,000)         for each Sub-
projects                     )         project approved
)          by MOH on or
(b) I&E Sub-               431,000)         before June 30,
projects                     )          1996
)
(c) Emergency            1,866,000)
Rehabili-                    )
tation Sub-                  )
projects                     )
(10) Unallocated             1,111,000
TOTAL              10,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;


﻿- 20 -
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c)   the term "Pharmaceuticals" means pharmaceutical products
and/or supplies to be purchased by MOH for the PHC SILAIS under Part
B.1 of the Project;
(d)   "MIS" means the cost of hardware and software required
for, and training of staff related to, the implementation of Part
A.3 of the Project; and
(e)   the  term  "PCU  Goods" means office    equipment  and
supplies, including computers, for the PCU.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed SDR 540,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1993;
(b)   any PHC SILAIS participating in Part A.1 of the Project,
unless the Association has been furnished with the Service Provision
Arrangement relating thereto;
(c)   computer hardware under Part A.3 of the Project, unless
the Borrower shall have been furnished with the action plan referred
to in paragraph 8 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)   Part A.2 (b) of the Project, unless the Borrower has
adopted the HRD Operational Manual;
(e)   Part B.4 of the Project unless the Borrower has adopted
the I&E Operational Manual;
(f)   Part D.1 of the Project unless the Borrower has adopted
the Emergency Rehabilitation Operational Manual;
(g)   Categories (3) and (4) unless the Association shall have
approved the related list of medical equipment and Pharmaceuticals
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;


﻿- 21 -
(h)   Part B of the Project unless the Borrower has adopted
the Primary Health Care Supervision Manual;
(i)   payments made under the first two HRD Subprojects and
any HRD Subproject costing more than the equivalent of $75,000
unless the Association shall have approved the respective HRD
Subproject;
(j)   payments   made   under  the   first   two   Emergency
Rehabilitation   Subprojects  and   any  Emergency  Rehabilitation
Subproject costing more than the equivalent of $100,000 unless the
Association   shall   have  approved   the   respective  Emergency
Rehabilitation Subproject; and
(k)   payments made under the first two I&E Subprojects unless
the Association shall have approved the respective I&E Subproject.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods, works, and services not
exceeding, respectively, $100,000, $200,000 and $50,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the
institutional capacity and management systems of MOH; (b) to
increase the quality of the delivery of health services; and (c) to
improve the financing of the sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Strengthening of MOH
1.    SILAIS
(a)   Improvement of the mechanism for transfer of budgetary
resources from MOH to the SILAIS, and development of the norms
required therefor.
(b)   Improvement of MOH's resource allocation system so as to
permit the allocation of budgetary resources to all SILAIS on a per
capita basis.
(c)   Improvement of the accounting system of the SILAIS'
headquarter offices and hospitals.
(d)   Study to assess the strengths and weaknesses of MOH's
cost recovery practices, review the administrative costs of
implementation of a user fee system in the health sector, and make
recommendations for the improvement of MOH's cost recovery
practices.
2.    Human Resource Development
(a)   Inventory of MOH's personnel in 16 SILAIS, and study to
analyze and simplify the job categories of the SILAIS, define the
optimal staffing structure and prepare job description and
directives thereof, analyze the salary and incentive structure,
define a personnel planning system, review the Borrower's health
labor market, and analyze the legal framework for human resource
development in the SILAIS.
(b)   Carrying out of HRD Subprojects.


﻿- 23 -
3.    Management Information System
Development of a management information system for MOH,
provision and utilization of the equipment and computer hardware and
software required therefor, and training of MOH's staff involved in
its operation.
Part B:     Primary Health Care
Development and implementation of the Primary Health Care
Model in the PHC SILAIS, including, inter alia:
1.    Procurement  and  distribution  of medical   equipment, and
pharmaceutical products and supplies to the PHC SILAIS.
2.    Training of the PHC SILAIS' medical and paramedical staff, at
the primary and secondary levels of health services delivery, in the
prevention and treatment of basic health problems in the Borrower's
territory.
3.    Carrying out of a mass media and communications campaign to
promote better health of the Borrower's population.
4.    Carrying out of I&E Subprojects.
5.    Supervision and evaluation of the Primary Health Care Model
and its application by the PHC SILAIS.
Part C:     Pharmaceuticals Supply System
1.    Policy and Regulations
Studies to: (a) review the economic and financial impact of
the Borrower's legislation on the marketing of pharmaceuticals,
including the price controls thereof; (b) assess the legal changes
required to allow for increased purchases of pharmaceuticals by the
SILAIS and their health facilities, and for private sector
distribution of such pharmaceuticals; and (c) propose a policy for
the regulation of distribution of donations of medical drugs by
extnrnal donors.
2.    Supply and Distribution System
(a)   Improvement of the capabilities of pharmaceuticals
inventory management of MOH's headquarter offices and the SILAIS.


﻿- 24 -
(b)   Rehabilitation and equipping of selected facilities of
MOH for storage and shelving of pharmaceuticals in MOH' s offices and
health units.
(c)   Distribution of pharmaceuticals to the SILAIS.
3.    Rational Use of Medical Drugs
Study to establish a baseline level of inefficient use of
medical drugs and training of MOH's staff in the implementation of
measures to improve efficiency in the use of such drugs.
4.    Pharmacy Services
Carrying out of a pilot program for the promotion of the
delivery of pharmacy services by the private sector.
Part D:     Rehabilitation of Hospitals
1.    Carrying out of Emergency Rehabilitation Subprojects.
2.    Studies to: (a) design a maintenance system for the Borrower's
health facilities; and (b) analyze the impact on the Borrower's
recurrent costs of maintaining the equipment installed in MOH's
hospitals, review the availability of recurrent cost financing, and
improve future decisions on the purchase of equipment for hospitals
and other medical facilities.
Part E:     INSSBI
1.    Health Insurance
Redesign of INSSBI's health insurance system and management
information system, and training of INSSBI's staff in the
implementation of such redesigned insurance model and information
system.
2.    Workmens' Compensation and Pension Fund
(a)   (i) Establishment of an insurance program designed to
cover work-related injuries and illnesses; (ii) design of technical
norms, an accreditation scheme for providers, a system to limit
occupational risk, and incentives to encourage affiliation to the
system; and (iii) training of INSSBI's technical specialists to
facilitate implementation of the system.


﻿- 25 -
(b)   Analysis of the financial status of INSSBI's pension
system and development of projections related to the financial
equilibrium of such pension system over the medium-to-long term.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price  contracts, the   invitation  to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the *extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more.
3.    Bidders for pharmaceuticals and medical equipment and supplies
shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, a margin of preference may be granted to


﻿- 27 -
bids offering goods described in the accompanying specification
which are manufactured to a substantial extent in any country,
including Nicaragua, which is a party to the Mercado Comdn
Centroamericano, the common market created by the General Treaty for
Central American Economic Integration signed at Managua, Nicaragua
on December 13, 1960 by Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua
and Costa Rica (hereinafter called the CACM), in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    For the purposes of Part B of this Schedule, the following
definitions shall apply:
(a)   (i)    the term   "Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid
submitted by a manufacturer established in the
territories of member countries, including
Nicaragua, of the CACM, for goods manufactured
or processed in such territories and for which
the bidders shall have established to the
satisfaction of the entity or agency inviting
bids that the manufacturing or processing cost
of such goods include a value added in such
territories equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods;
(ii)    the term "non-Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid
submitted by a manufacturer established in the
territories of member countries, including
Nicaragua, of the CACM, for goods manufactured
or processed in such territories, other than any
such bid classified as a Qualified CACM Bid; and
(iii)    the term "Foreign Bid" means any bid which is
neither a Qualified CACM Bid or a Non-Qualified
CACH Bid.
2.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted and shall set
forth the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference.
3.    Bidders are required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of
entry) price of imported goods and the ex-factory price of locally
manufactured goods.


﻿- 28 -
4.    Except to the extent hereinafter provided, bids will be
compared on the basis of their ex-factory or c.i.f. (port of entry)
price adjusted in accordance with paragraphs 2.49 through 2.54 of
the Guidelines.
5.    After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of
the following groups: Qualified CACM Bids, Non-qualified CACM Bids
or Foreign Bids.
6.    All bids in    each  group will be    first compared   among
themselves, to determine the lowest evaluated bid in each such
group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group will then be compared
with each other and if, as a result of this comparison, an evaluated
Qualified CACM Bid or Non-Qualified CACM Bid is the lowest it will
be selected for purpose of award.
7.    If the lowest bid in the comparison under paragraph 6 above is
a Foreign Bid, all Foreign Bids will be further compared with the
lowest evaluated Qualified CACM Bid as determined under paragraph 6
above. For the purposes of this comparison only, each Foreign Bid
will be compared on the basis of the sum of its c.i.f. (port of
entry) price adjusted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
4 above, plus an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the difference
between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of goods
offered in such Foreign Bid and that applicable to a Qualified CACM
Bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the
Qualified CACH Bid is the lowest evaluated bid in such comparison,
it shall be selected for the purpose of award; otherwise, the lowest
evaluated Foreign Bid as determined under paragraph 6 above shall be
so selected.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (a)   Subject to the provisions of paragraph      (b) below,
pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and supplies and vehicles, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,800,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof); and
(b)   the Borrower shall enter into a contract with United
Nations Children Defense Fund (UNICEF) or other procurement agent


﻿- 29 -
acceptable to the Association, for the procurement of the
pharmaceuticals and medical equipment and supplies referred to in
paragraph (a) above, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
2.    Except as provided in paragraph 4 below, works shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Goods (other than pharmaceuticals and medical equipment and
supplies) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000 and works
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,100,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
5.    Pharmaceuticals and medical equipment and supplies estimated
to cost less than $25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract procured pursuant to the
provisions of Parts A.1 and C.1 hereof, the first contract for goods
and works procured pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.2 and C.3
hereof, and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more, and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4


﻿- 30 -
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the mak.ng of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrover shall employ, and cause INSSBI to employ, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.


﻿- 31 -
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$50,000  equivalent   each.  However,  this   exception  to  prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Actions                                          Date (by)
1.   Maintain the PCU wit.h structure and
functions, and staffed with personnel       At all times
with qualifications and experience,         during Project
satisfactory to the Association.            implementation
2.  (a) Complete a review of the
budget decentralization
process being implemented by
MOH so as to: (i) analyze the
strengths and weaknesses of its
implementation; (ii) assess
whether the pace of budget
decentralization is adequate
considering the SILAIS capacity;
and (iii) recommend improvements
to the system;                           March 31, 1995
(b) based on the results of the
review referred to in para-
graph (a) above, prepare and
furnish to the Association an
action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, for the decentrali-
zation of MOH's human resources
including therein the modalities
and the timing thereof; and              April 30, 1995
(c) commence implementation of such
action plan.                             May 31, 1995
3. (a) Furnish to the Association a
budgetary resource allocation
system for the SILAIS, satis-
factory to the Association,
which would allocate such
resources on a per capita basis
with corrective factors to make
it more equitable and efficient          September 30,
between the SILAIS;                      1994


﻿- 33 -
Actions                                          Date (by)
(b) commence implementation of such
budgetary allocation system on
a pilot basis, in at least five
SILAIS;                                 January 1, 1995
(c) furnish to the Association the
results of the pilot implementation
referred to in 3 (b) above, its
assessment of the feasibility of
extending the system to all the SILAIS,
and introducing, on a pilot basis, a
resource allocation system for the
SILAIS based exclusively on the
cost per capita of delivering health
care services; and                      June 31, 1995
(d) commence implementation of an action
plan, satisfactory to the Association
based on the results referred to in
3 (c) above.                            September 1, 1995
4. (a) Furnish to the Association the
results of the review of the cost
accounting system currently in use
by MOH on a limited basis, and the
feasibility of expanding such cost
accounting system to all MOH's
hospitals and SILAIS; and               December 31, 1994
(b) commence implementation of an
action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, based on the results
of the review referred to in
paragraph 4 (a) above.                  February 1, 1995
5. (a) Review with the Association the
results of the implementation of
the Service Provision
Arrangements; and                        October 31, 1994


﻿- 34 -
Actions                                           Date (by)
(b) commence implementation of the
Service Provision Arrangements,
modified as needed to take into
account the results of the review
referred to in paragraph 5 (a)
above, in all the SILAIS.                January 1, 1995
6. (a) Furnish to the Association the
terms of reference for the study
included in Part A.1 (d) of the
Project;                                 March 31, 1994
(b) discuss with the Association the         December 31,
recommendations of such study; and       1995
(c) commence implementation of the
recommendations of the study referred
to in 6 (a) above, taking into
account the comments, if any, made
by the Association thereon.              February 1, 1995
7. (a) Furnish to the Association for its
comments the results of the study
on health labor market included
in Part A.2 (a) of the Project; and      October 31, 1994
(b) commence implementation of the
recommendations of such study,
taking into account the comments,
if any, made by the Association
thereon.                                 January 1, 1995
8. Furnish to the Association:
(a) The terms of reference for the
consultants to be employed to
develop the MOH's management
information system included in
Part A.3 of the Project;                 April 30, 1994


﻿- 35 -
Actions                                         Date (by)
(b) an action plan satisfactory to
the Association for the develop-
ment and implementation of such         December 31,
information system; and                 1994
(c) commence implementation of such         February 1,
action plan.                            1995
9. (a) Furnish to the Association the
recommendations of the studies
included in Part C.1 of the             October 31,
Project; and                            1994
(b) commence implementation of the
recommendations of the studies
referred to in 9 (a) above,
taking into account the comments
if any, made by the Association         December 1,
thereon.                                1994
10. (a) Furnish to the Association the
recommendations of the study
included in Part C.3 of the
Project and an action plan,
satisfactory to the Association,
to improve the efficiency in the        January 31,
use of medical drugs; and               1995
(b) commence implementation of such
action plan.                            March 1, 1995
11. (a) Complete implementation of the
pilot program on the promotion
of private sector participation
in the delivery of pharmacy
services included in Part C.4
of the Project and furnish to
the Association an action plan,
satisfactory to the Association,
to expand such program; and             June 30, 1995
(b) commence implementation of such         August 1, 1995
action plan


﻿- 36 -
Actions                                          Date (by)
12. (a) Furnish to the Association the
recommendations of the studies
included in Part D.2 of the             December 31,
Project; and                             1994
(b) commence implementation of the
recommendations of the studies
referred to in 12 (a) above
taking into account the comments,
f any, made by the Association
thereon.                                March 1, 1995
13. Cause INSSBI to:
(a) furnish to the Association an
action plan, satisfactory to
the Association, for the
improvement of its health
insurance program through the
implementation of the re-
designed insurance system
referred to in Part E.1                 December 31,
of the Project; and                      1994
(b) commence implementation of such          January 1,
action plan                             1995


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)  the  term   "Authorized Allocation" means    an  amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 38 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 39 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 40 -
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the INSSBI Subsidiary
Agreement
The INSSBI Subsidiary Agreement shall provide, inter alia, the
following rights and obligations:
(a)   the Borrower's obligation to relend the portion of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated for Part E of the Project to INSSBI
in dollars;
(b)   INSSBI's obligations:
(i)   to repay the portion of the proceeds of the Credit
so relent and to pay charges on the amounts
withdrawn and unwithdrawn mutatis mutandis on the
same terms as those set forth or referred to in
sections 2.04 through 2.07 of this Agreement;
(ii)   to carry out Part E of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound   financial,  engineering,   economic   and
environmental practices and standards;
(iii)   to maintain records and separate accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices,   the    operations,   resources   and
expenditures in respect of Part E of the Project;
and
(iv)   to assist the Borrower in meeting its obligations
under Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, and 3.06, and
Article IV and V of, and paragraph 13 of Schedule
4 to, this Agreement;
(c)   the requirement that: (i) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in
accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of Part
E of the Project; and


﻿- 41 -
(d)   the right of the Borrower:
(i)   to  inspect,   by   itself,  or   jointly   with
representatives of the Association, if the
Association shall so request, INSSBI's facilities
in respect of Part E of the Project and any
relevant records and documents;
(ii)  to obtain all such information as the Borrower or
the Association shall reasonably request regarding
the foregoing, the administration, operations and
financial condition of Part E of the Project and
the benefits to be derived from it; and
(iii)  to suspend or terminate the right of INSSBI to use
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by INSSBI
to perform any of its obligations under the INSSBI
Subsidiary Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


