         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                                                                 86921
                  International Development Association
                     International Finance Corporation
                Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                        CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                     EDS98-270
                                                                    June 4, 1998


Board Meeting of June 4, 1998
Statement by Jan Piercy
                 Lesotho Country Assistance Strategy
              Lesotho Highlands Water Project – Phase 1B

1.   I am grateful to have had the opportunity to visit Lesotho during
our recent ED travel.   The trip allowed me to gain first-hand
knowledge about Lesotho and the LHWP and to witness the increase in
capacity and commitment needed for effective implementation of the
LHRF. I want to thank Pamela Cox, John Roome and the country team for
their efforts and for being so responsive to our inquiries about the
project and the CAS.
2.   Dealing with Lesotho’s high level of poverty has been the central
policy objective of the Government and of the Bank’s 1996 CAS. The
CAS states that Bank support in Lesotho is having a favorable
development impact, but that the impact of the Bank’s program on
poverty reduction remains unclear, in part because of a lack of data.
I noted that the client survey found that respondents did not see much
impact from the Bank’s lending program on poverty reduction. The CAS
also states that the Government has been unable to make significant
progress in implementing programs to radically address poverty. Causes
of poverty include unemployment, lack of adequate agricultural land,
environmental disaster, and ill health.

3.   The CAS mentions that in the medium-term, continuing rapid
population growth and limited employment opportunities in South
Africa, in turn, could exacerbate unemployment and poverty, leading to
increased pressure on the limited land base (as agriculture remains a
fall back source of income) and informal non-farm activities. This
statement concerns me because Phase 1b will have an impact on arable
and grazing land and on peoples’ source of income.

4.   With the LHWP as the centerpiece of this CAS, how can we work
with the government to ensure that the revenues of this project
actually are applied toward sustainable poverty reduction? The CAS
indicates that the civil service has continued weaknesses in its
capacity to design and implement programs to deal with poverty
reduction. What can the Bank do to strengthen government capacity in
this regard?    Does EDI have a role here?
                                   2


5.   The public expenditure review planned for FY99 seems critical
because of the potentially large effects of improved management of the
government budget on poverty alleviation. I would appreciate staff
comment on the opportunities for the PER to tie into the debate over
the uses of the new revenue flows from the LHWP, as the majority of
the revenues will flow into the general government budget rather than
into the development-specific Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund (LHRF).

6.   The planned reforms for the LHRF are essential to maximize the
development impact from the water project. The CAS heading “What did
not Work Well” should have acknowledged the problems encountered with
the LHRF. When the Learning and Innovation Loan which is to support
the reforms of the LHRF comes to the Board in July, I hope it will
provide a much clearer picture of what the Bank thinks has to happen
for the Fund to become a viable instrument for development and poverty
alleviation. I would like to request that the Board receive a
progress report on the reforms of LHRF in one year.
7.   Our embassy in Maseru points out the disconnect between the
government’s focus on poverty alleviation and its failure to free up
the economy for private sector activity. This has to be an important
element of the policy dialogue between the Bank and government.
Currently, the government dominates the economy, controls all
utilities, and is the single largest employer. Commercial Banks are
not friendly to private entrepreneurs. I would appreciate staff
comment on the status of the proposed new investment promotion law and
what initiatives might create more public understanding of the link
between an improved private sector climate and employment and economic
opportunity.
8.   The CAS points out the need for more regional economic
integration. Would Lesotho benefit from a World Bank analysis of
cross-border barriers to trade and investment?
9.   The lack of progress in civil service reform potentially
seriously jeopardizes ability to deliver on the goals of this CAS.
The CAS indicates that civil service reform is envisaged in the
context of multi-donor cooperation, through the government’s PFP, with
UNDP in the lead. What is the role of the Bank and what progress has
been made? How well is the UNDP/Bank partnership working?
10. On understanding the Bank’s work in the context of total donor
activity, we appreciated the chart provided as Attachment V. However,
this list provided no indication of the magnitude or terms of support
of various donors and thus was less informative than should be the
norm.

11. I cannot reconcile the CAS report that there has been a lack of
progress on structural reforms, sectoral policies, civil service
reform, privatization and poverty reduction with the CAS statement
that “Lesotho is a high performing country which has received less
than its per capita share of IDA”. The reference to high performing
must refer to macro-economic policy because the institutional capacity
of the government is weak and political leadership is unclear. What
are the implications of the recent elections? Does the Government
have the implementation capacity to absorb additional IDA resources?
I would appreciate staff comment on this point.
                                   3


12. With regard to the specifics of the LHWP, we continue to have
concerns about the technical justification of proceeding with the
project at this time. Some studies have indicated that Phase 1b could
be delayed for 4 to 11 years or longer if demand measures are
emphasized. More detailed demand management studies have been called
for by some, but others strongly believe, and the PAD points out, the
economic rationale for proceeding now. We can accept the
recommendation to proceed but want to stress the importance of full
compliance with all implementation provisions, including environmental
and social impact mitigation measures.
13. I commend Bank staff for making a strong, good faith effort to
deal with the most difficult components of this project, particularly
the resolution of the resettlement problems from Phase 1A and design
of the resettlement plans for Phase 1B.

14. We have continuing concerns about prospects for income
restoration and resettlement. This is in part due to dearth of
economic activity in the highlands. Only a portion of the royalties
for relatively few years is dedicated for social purposes and viable
livelihoods may not be afforded for affected people. Therefore, the
development activities associated with this project and the
development impact of the Revenue Fund are very important and will
need to be closely monitored.   We would prefer to see the achievement
of measurable income and economic activity goals as benchmarks before
royalty earmarks reduction.
15. The environmental effects of the project in Lesotho and South
Africa include the likely extinction of fish species and dewatering
and augmentation of river systems with reservoir water of potentially
poor quality. There are major informational and institutional
constraints on the ability of the relevant institutions to manage
these effects. We have particular concerns about efforts to maintain
wild populations of the Maluti Minnow.   We urge added vigilance in
these areas.
16. My authorities strongly believe that the downstream effects
should have been studied prior to the commencement of this project. I
do note that the dam design has now built in new flexibility to alter
water releases. I also understand that the Instream Flow Requirements
Study has to be finished and Lesotho has to create a plan of action
for downstream releases acceptable to the Bank prior to the filling of
the Mohale Reservoir.
17. Our concerns on the environment and resettlement point to the
importance of Bank supervision. Adequate resources from the Bank for
the supervision of this loan are indispensable because of the
institutional weaknesses of the Lesotho Highlands Development
Authority. The Bank has identified reforming the operations of the
Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund as a top priority. We strongly concur
because the uses of the revenues from this project will determine the
lasting development effects for Lesotho. The Fund must be capable of
supporting the poverty alleviation objectives of the Government of
Lesotho.

18. Lesotho and South Africa are rightly looking at regional
cooperation in such important areas as water management. We believe
the Bank should support these regional efforts. We hope that the
                                   4


country assistance strategy for South Africa will consider the
management of regional water resources. In view of the fact that
water demand studies and downstream effects studies are underway, and
in view of the need to test demand management strategies in South
Africa, we strongly believe the Bank should not provide support to any
future phases of this water project until the studies are completed
and their implications discussed.
19. This project highlights the increasing prominence of water
resources management issues for the Bank’s borrowers. The Bank does
not now have water demand management experts on its staff. This gap
should be filled in order to provide the Bank with the resources to
properly analyze water issues and shape water projects. In this
regard, we would appreciate comment on how the region and the ESSD
network have cooperated in the dialogue on water resource management
issues.
20. Finally, with regard to the Inspection Panel Claim, we await the
Inspection Panel’s review and have confidence that the region will
cooperate fully with the Panel in providing guidance to the Board as
soon as possible. Some issues arose in the submission of this claim
which point up the need to train staff on how to handle Inspection
Panel inquiries. This, however, can be discussed in the context of
our review of the claim itself.
