Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4339 LSO
First Guarantee Agreement
(Lesotho Highlands Water Project (Phase 1B))
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 18, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4339 LSO
FIRST GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1998, between Kingdom of Lesotho (the First 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the First Guarantor and Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Second Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Republic of South Africa (the Second Guarantor) and the Bank, the Second 
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the 
Loan;
(C)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in Dollars equivalent 
to forty-five million Dollars ($45,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the First Guarantor agree to guarantee 
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the First Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to, and Section 1.02 of, the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Guarantee
Section 2.01. The First Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Guarantee Agreement hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as 
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan and the punctual performance of all the other obligations 
of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The First Guarantor shall make arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank for the carrying out of Parts F and G of the Project referred to in Schedule 2 to 
the Loan Agreement and shall ensure that such Parts are carried out with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial and administrative 
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for such Parts of the Project.
Section 3.02. The First Guarantor shall include a sufficient amount in the 
annual budget of its departments and institutions to fund its share of Project costs 
including: (a) the cost of its JPTC delegation and its share of the costs of the JPTC 
Secre\1ftariat; (b) the cost of its share of the rehabilitation and maintenance of 
existing roads and border crossing facilities affected by the Project; (c) its share 
of the environmental, compensation and rural development costs, in accordance with the 
Environmental Action Plan; and (d) its share of LHDA's administration costs. 
ARTICLE IV 
Representative of the First Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of the First Guarantor responsible for Finance is 
designated as representative of the First Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the First Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Maseru 100
Lesotho
Cable address: 
Telex:
MIFIN
4330 LO
For the Bank:
Page  3
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By  /s/ Eunice M. Bulane
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
