Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4339 LSO
Loan Agreement
(Lesotho Highlands Water Project (Phase 1B))
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
LESOTHO HIGHLANDS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated December 18, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4339 LSO 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1998, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the LESOTHO HIGHLANDS DEVELOPMENT 
AUTHORITY (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Kingdom of Lesotho (the First Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
the First Guarantor has entered into the Treaty (as hereinafter defined) 
with the Republic of South Africa (the Second Guarantor) stipulating the respective 
rights and obligations of the First Guarantor and of the Second Guarantor relating to 
the development of their mutual water resources;
(C)
by an agreement (the First Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the First Guarantor and the Bank, the First Guarantor has agreed to guarantee 
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other 
obligations as set forth in the First Guarantee Agreement;
(D)
by an agreement (the Second Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Second Guarantor and the Bank, the Second Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
(E)
the Borrower intends to secure financing from various other sources in an 
aggregate amount approximately equivalent to one billion five hundred million dollars 
($1,500,000,000) to assist in financing Parts A through E of the Project; 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 6.02 is amended as follows:
(i)
Sub-paragraphs (ii), (iii) and (iv) are deleted from paragraphs 
(a) and (b); 
and 
(ii)
paragraph (d) is deleted.
(b)
Section 6.03 is modified to read: “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the 
Bank.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, 
the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan 
Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the First Guarantor pursuant 
to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, the First Guarantor and the Second Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
(c)
Section 7.01 is amended by deleting its paragraphs (c) and (d).
(d)
In Section 9.03 (Negative Pledge), the term “external Debt” is 
interpreted to exclude also all borrowings by the First Guarantor repayable in the 
currencies of the Republic of South Africa, Swaziland and Namibia.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Treaty" means the Treaty between the First Guarantor and the Second 
Guarantor on the Lesotho Highlands Water Project, dated October 24, 1986, including 
all Protocols thereto;
(c)
"LHDA" means the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority established by 
the First Guarantor on October 24, 1986, pursuant to the Lesotho Highlands Development 
Page  3
Authority Order, No. 23 of 1986 as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)
"JPTC" means the Joint Permanent Technical Commission, established in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 9 of the Treaty;
(e)
"LHWP" means the Lesotho Highlands Water Project as defined in the 
Treaty;
(f)
"LHWRF" means the Lesotho Highlands Water Revenue Fund established by the 
First Guarantor pursuant to Legal Notice No. 91 of 1992 into which Royalty Payments 
due from the Second Guarantor under the Treaty are deposited to be used for 
development purposes specified in said Legal Notice, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(g)
"Royalty Payments" means royalty payments as defined under the Treaty;
(h)
"Environmental Action Plan" or “EAP” means the environmental action plan 
(including the resettlement and development action plan) for the Project prepared by 
the Borrower and approved by the JPTC;
(i)
"Phase 1.A of the Project" means Sub-Phase 1.A of LHWP;
(j)
"Phase 1.B of the Project" means Sub-Phase 1.B of LHWP;
(k)
“Environment and Social Services Group” or “ESSG” means the structure 
established by the Borrower for the purposes of carrying out all tasks relating to the 
implementation of the EAP; and
(l)
“Mohale Dam Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and other financing institutions for the execution of Part A.1 of 
the Project.  
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
forty-five million Dollars ($45,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
Page  4
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.(iv)"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in 
respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions 
thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the First Guarantor, the Second Guarantor and the 
Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly 
upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the First 
Guarantor, the Second Guarantor and the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall 
become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the 
Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification 
shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 
15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) the Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A through E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and 
construction practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A through E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for purposes of ensuring the safety of the 
dams, tunnels and related infrastructure included in the Project, employ panels of 
experts as referred to in Part C.2 of the Project, whose qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, and who 
Page  5
shall be selected in accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, to review the concept of such dams, tunnels and structures and the adequacy 
of their design, construction, operation and maintenance.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and construction practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
Without limitation to the generality of Section 4.01 (a), the Borrower 
shall consult with the Bank and take into account the Bank’s views on: (i) any 
proposed changes to the Borrower’s management structure; and (ii) the qualifications 
and experience of individuals to be appointed to senior management positions of the 
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and construction practices.
(b)
Without limitation to the generality of Section 4.02 (a), the Borrower 
shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank: (i) cause the dams, tunnels and 
structures constructed under the Project to be periodically inspected by the panels of 
experts referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement in accordance with sound 
engineering practice, in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the 
condition of such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods 
of operation of the same, which may endanger their safety; (ii) promptly furnish to 
the Bank for its review the report of the panels, together with the Borrower's own 
comments; and (iii) propose to the Bank appropriate arrangements for the Bank's 
review, no later than one year before the expected completion of such structures, for 
their operation and maintenance.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice, taking 
into account all relevant circumstances.
(b)
For purposes of assisting the Borrower in carrying out paragraph (a) 
above, the Borrower shall: (i) employ an insurance expert or experts, adequately 
qualified and experienced, to make recommendations on the type or types of insurance 
to be procured by the Borrower; and (ii) furnish to the Bank the recommendations made 
by such expert or experts.
ARTICLE V 
Financial Covenants 
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statement 
of income and expenses and related statements) and 
the records and accounts 
for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) above 
for such year as so audited; and 
(B) reports of such audits by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank 
such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Treaty shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to make it improbable that the Project can be carried out or to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under this Agreement.
(b)
The First Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(c)
The LHDA Order shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(d)
The Second Guarantor shall have failed to make payment of principal or 
interest or any other charges due when payable under the Second Guarantee Agreement.
(e)
The Mohale Dam Financing Agreement shall have failed to become effective 
by December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
Page  7
the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of any credit or loan made to the 
Borrower for 
financing of Part A of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the Agreement 
concerned, or  (B) such credit or 
loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring was not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and with respect to the event specified in Section 6.01 (d) shall continue for a 
period of thirty days. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
notification from each creditor or agent bank on its behalf, that such 
creditor or agent bank, has received notifications certifying satisfaction of all 
initial documentary conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the agreements for 
the financing referred to in Recital (E) to this Agreement, except that for the Mohale 
Dam Financing Agreement, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed personnel, acceptable to the Bank, as managers 
of the field operations teams established within ESSG;
(c)
the Borrower has submitted to the Bank an action plan satisfactory to the 
Bank for the purpose of extending the Borrower’s compensation scheme included in the 
EAP to households affected as a result of operations initiated under Phase 1.A;
(d)
the Borrower has completed the construction of the resettlement 
compensation housing under Phase 1.A; 
(e)
(i)
the provisions of the Treaty pertaining to LHWP’s governance 
structure have 
been amended in a member satisfactory to the Bank; 
and 
(ii)
the First Guarantor has amended LHDA Order No. 23 of 1986 so as to 
entrust 
LHDA with a new governance structure satisfactory to 
the Bank;
(f)
the First Guarantor has: 
(i)
amended its Legal Notice No. 91 of 1992 in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank; 
and 
(ii)
submitted to the Bank an interim operational manual satisfactory 
to the Bank, 
describing inter alia the eligibility criteria and 
procedures to be followed 
in selecting investment proposals to be 
financed under the LHWRF; and
Page  8
(g)
the Borrower has taken appropriate measures to settle in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank all outstanding compensation claims resulting from activities 
initiated under Phase 1.A and registered with the Borrower as at June 30, 1997.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The Chief Executive of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Lesotho Highlands Development Authority
P.O. Box 7332
Maseru 100
Lesotho
Telex:
4523 LHDA
LO
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
LESOTHO HIGHLANDS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By  /s/ Eunice M. Bulane 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Page  9
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
     Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
 39,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
(2)
Training
    500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
(3)
Unallocated
  5,000,000
TOTAL
 45,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the First Guarantor, 
the Second Guarantor, Namibia or Swaziland for services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the First Guarantor, the Second Guarantor, Namibia or 
Swaziland.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $4,500,000, may be made in respect of Category 1 on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1997; and (b) payments for 
expenditures in respect of Category (2) unless both the Borrower and JPTC have adopted 
and submitted to the Bank a training program acceptable to the Bank. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not exceeding $200,000 
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to establish the physical and managerial 
capacity for Lesotho to earn export revenues by transforming its principal natural 
resource - water - into an export commodity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Water Transfer Works 
1.
Construction of a concrete face rockfill type dam at Mohale about 145 meters 
high, with an active reservoir storage capacity of about 1,000 million cubic meters 
and an intake structure connected to a transfer tunnel to Katse Reservoir. 
2.
Construction of a  tunnel of about 32 km long with a diameter of about 4 meters 
to transfer an average flow of about 10 cubic meters per second of water from the 
Mohale Reservoir to the Katse Reservoir. 
3.
Construction of a weir at Matsoku, of about 15 meters high, and a connecting 
Page  10
tunnel of  about 6 km long with a diameter of about 4.5 meters, to transfer an average 
flow of about 2.2 cubic meters per second of water to the Katse Reservoir.
4.
Construction of the following infrastructure in the Project area: (a) about 100 
kilometers of paved roads; (b) about 10 kilometers of gravel roads; (c) two bridges; 
and (d) work camps, staff housing, extension of the electric power supply and 
telecommunication system to the Project sites. 
5.
Rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads used by Project related 
traffic.
Part B:
Engineering and Construction Supervision
Construction supervision and detailed design of the civil works covering the 
Mohale dam and transfer tunnel, Matsoku weir and tunnel and infrastructure referred to 
under Part A of the Project.
Part C:
Institutional Support for LHDA 
1.
Institutional development and strengthening of LHDA in the fields of 
engineering, construction, maintenance, administrative and financial management, 
environment and human resource development through the provision of technical advisory 
services and training of LHDA staff in engineering, finance, accounting, environment 
and management. 
2.
Establishment of panels of experts to advise on dam safety and social and 
environmental matters. 
3.
Establishment of a board of independent experts to review any contracts related 
disputes and to foster an amicable settlement of the same.
Part D:
Environmental Protection and Rural Development 
1.
Implementation of actions to protect and enhance vegetative cover in the 
watershed above the Mohale Dam, to mitigate negative impacts of the Project on flora, 
fauna and sites of historic or cultural significance, and to protect and enhance water 
quality and wetland ecology in the Mohale watershed and in the area immediately 
down-stream of the dam. 
2.
Implementation of a program of actions to compensate persons affected by the 
Project for lost income and assets and to replace lost access and other infrastructure 
in the Project area. 
3.
Implementation of a program to restore productive capacity of persons affected 
by the Project and to enable the exploitation of new economic opportunities created by 
the Project.
Part E:
Studies
Carrying out the following studies:
1.
an organization and manpower study for LHDA; and
2.
a study of the impact of Phases 1.A and 1.B. on downstream riparians.
Part F:
Institutional Support for the First Guarantor 
1.
Support for the First Guarantor's delegation to the JPTC. 
2.
Construction, equipping, operation and maintenance of border crossings in the 
Project area.
Part G:
Lesotho Highlands Water Revenue Fund
Strengthening LHWRF’s  capacity to manage efficiently Royalty Payments accruing 
to the First Guarantor as a result of the Project. 
Page  11
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)* 
November 15, 2003
2,250,000
May 15, 2004 
2,250,000
November 15, 2004
2,250,000
May 15, 2005 
2,250,000
November 15, 2005
2,250,000
May 15, 2006 
2,250,000
November 15, 2006
2,250,000
May 15, 2007 
2,250,000
November 15, 2007
2,250,000
May 15, 2008 
2,250,000
November 15, 2008
2,250,000
May 15, 2009 
2,250,000
November 15, 2009
2,250,000
May 15, 2010 
2,250,000
November 15, 2010
2,250,000
May 15, 2011 
2,250,000
November 15, 2011
2,250,000
May 15, 2012 
2,250,000
November 15, 2012
2,250,000
May 15, 2013
2,250,000
TOTAL
      45,000,000
      ==========
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least Cost Selection 
Least-cost Selection for Consultants’ services under Part C of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
Page  12
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for the detailed design and supervision of construction for the Mohale 
Dam and Mohale Tunnel and for services which are estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may, with 
the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
Page  13
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
2.
The Borrower shall promptly carry out the EAP as provided therein.
3.
The Borrower shall, prior to commencing the impounding of the Mohale reservoir: 
(a) submit to the Bank evidence that all affected households in the inundation zone 
have been: (i) satisfactorily resettled; and (ii) compensated in accordance with the 
provisions of the EAP; (b) submit an action plan, acceptable to the Bank, for LHDA’s 
response to any seismicity that may result from the impounding of the reservoir; (c) 
(i) complete the study referred to under Part E.2 of the Project; and (ii) promptly 
submit any results and recommendations thereof to the Bank for its review; and (d) 
design and implement measures for the management of downstream compensation releases 
from Matsoku, Katse and Mohale Dams, including but not limited to altering the 
operating regime releases and/or mitigating any adverse downstream impacts identified 
in the EAP, or as a result of the study referred to under Part E.2 of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall, prior to mobilizing the contractors for the Mohale Tunnel 
and Mohale Dam construction works, submit evidence satisfactory to the Bank that all 
households affected by the construction will have been: (a) satisfactorily resettled; 
and (b) compensated in accordance with the provisions of the EAP.
5.
The Borrower shall, by September 30, 2000: (a) carry out an audit of the 
execution of its compensation policy, based on terms of reference agreed upon with the 
Bank; (b) submit the report of the audit referred to in paragraph (a) above, as soon 
as it is available, to the Bank for its review and comments; and (c) promptly 
implement the recommendations of the said audit as agreed upon with the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 and 2 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  14
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
Page  15
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 7 
Performance Indicators
Performance indicators against which progress will be assessed in the mid term 
review scheduled for September 2000.
1.
Major Works
All major structures within cost and on schedule.  Key schedule dates are 
Impoundment of the Mohale Dam in October 2001, transfer of water through the Matsoku 
Diversion by March 2001 and  transfer of water through the Mohale Tunnel by January 
2003.  Costs targets at each milestone as specified in contracts. Performance to be 
measured relative to the contractors agreed schedules and estimates of costs and time 
to completion. Work to be conducted such that days lost to industrial disputes limited 
to less than 2%, and disabling injury incidents and project related deaths minimized, 
and the share of the unskilled workforce recruited from the LHWP project area greater 
than 30%. Progress towards target of M150 million in contracts to Basotho contractors. 
Development of an action plan to monitor and mitigate Reservoir Induced Seismicity by 
June 2000. Advance infrastructure under maintenance. Completion of and agreement by 
all parties on an operational plan for downstream water releases and agreement on an 
action plan, with implementation arrangements and budgets, to mitigate any downstream 
impacts.
2.
Compensation
Implementation of the compensation plan of the EAP, in both the 1.A and stage 1 
in the 1B project areas, with deliveries of cash payments, grain deliveries and 
compensation for community resources on time and as per final community preferences, 
as agreed by August 31, 1998. Integrated compensation complaints register, database 
and monitoring system established and maintained, community dispute resolution systems 
functioning.
3.
Resettlement
Completion of resettlement of an estimated 99 stage one households, prior to 
mobilization of contractors for Mohale Tunnel and Mohale Dam. All affected households 
supplied with water supply and sanitation. Agreement reached with about 172 stage two 
households on final resettlement locations, compensation options and income generation 
plans, and sufficient progress made on the implementation of these plans to allow 
resettlement to take place prior to inundation in October 2001. At least 60% of the 
stage two replacement houses to be constructed by their owners or by small local 
contractors.
4.
Affected Community Infrastructure
Page  16
Final agreement (using both engineering criteria and social considerations) on 
the length and location of access roads to be provided under the project. Progress on 
physical implementation of works by June 2000 to include 100 km of access roads, 50 
classrooms, 190 latrines, 22 villages provided with water to standards acceptable to 
the Association, with 44 trained water minders and a water committee per village. 
Appropriate arrangements in place for maintenance of facilities and ultimate handover 
to communities or government. All community infrastructure to be environmentally sound 
(i.e. impact minimized and mitigated) and socially appropriate (e.g. location of 
facilities).
5.
Income Restoration
270 income restoration plans developed, 180 persons having undergone training, 
400 on short term employment under project, 45 participating in project funded credit 
schemes. Highland maize yield increased by 9% over the average catchment yield for 95 
farmers covered by the project.
6.
Community Water Supply and Sanitation
Water supply and sanitation supplied at standards acceptable to the Association 
to 30 additional villages in the catchment area, but not directly affected by the 
project, each with a water committee established and water minders trained, and 
resultant diorrhorea episodes reduced by 40% and helminthic infections by 10% in those 
villages within 12 months of completion of the works.
7.
Community Health Care
Implementation of the community health program, including provision of services 
to those in the catchment but not directly affected by the project. Establishment of 
two clinics, with good all-round attendance rates including ante-natal mother 
attendance of 70%. Health status reporting and local health committees established for 
all communities. At least 50,000 condoms and 2,000 health pamphlets distributed 
annually in the Phase 1.B Project area. Full agreement with the Ministry of Health, 
with at least 50% of staff members required identified for secondment to LHWP 
facilities, and agreement reached on full training programs in clinical skills, health 
care management and primary health care monitoring and evaluation. Handover plans 
agreed for all LHWP health facilities to the First Guarantor. Primary immunization 
rates up from 80% to 85% by June 2000 in the catchment areas, with stunting down from 
47% to 40%, severe PEM down from 7% to 5%, sexually transmitted diseases rates down 
from 50% to 40%.
8.
Natural Environment
Catchment conservation coordinating committee established and operational, with 
full support of First Guarantor and communities. Environmental Awareness program 
launched and operational, showing an improvement in community awareness. Recycling 
program established and transferred to local communities and contractors on a 
sustainable basis. Biosphere planning complete with sites and conservation plans 
approved ready for implementation. Comprehensive environmental resource baseline data 
established and monitoring systems operational (per the EAP) from September 1999, with 
appropriate corrective action being taken as warranted.
9.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit established and staffed, all baseline indicators 
and evaluation criteria agreed (including participatory criteria) and data collection 
procedures established and operational. Annual data collection surveys started in 
1998, with evaluation workshops held annually, and appropriate corrective actions 
taken as a result.
10.
Institutional
Transformation program completed and all new managers appointed by June 1998. 
Training policy and plan agreed by October 1998, with rolling three year plans and 
detailed annual plans agreed annually thereafter. Implementation measured in terms of 
percentage completion of plan, and cost per trainee. New Governance structure 
implemented through amendment to Treaty and Order and new LHDA Board members appointed 
Page  17
by December 1998.
