Page  1
 
 
THE INSPECTION PANEL 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
1818 H Street, N.W.
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5200 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA
 
Fax : (202) 522-0916 
 
 
 
IPN REQUEST RQ99/2         
May 14, 1999 
 
 
NOTICE OF REGISTRATION 
 
Dear Sir: 
 
Re: Request for Inspection
 
– Lesotho/South Africa: Lesotho Highlands 
Water Project 
 
 
On April 26 1999, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a second Request for 
Inspection (the "Request") dated April 14, 1999 related to the above mentioned project that 
involves the building of dams in Lesotho for the supply of water to the Guateng province in South 
Africa.  The Request is submitted by companies registered in the Kingdom of Lesotho and some 
South African nationals who are shareholders in the Lesotho companies.  The companies, led by 
Swissbourgh Diamond Mines (Pty) Ltd., claim to have had mining rights in an area of the 
Malibamats'o River valley.  All rights to mining activity in the project area have been revoked in 
order to implement the project. 
 
The Requesters claim that “they have suffered harm – and continue to suffer harm - as a result of 
failures or omissions in the appraisal, monitoring and implementation by the Bank of Phase 1A and 1B of 
the Project.”  Specifically, they maintain that the “Requesters have been deprived of their property rights 
and their entitlement to prompt, effective and adequate compensation.  That deprivation would not have 
occurred if the Bank had complied with its Policies and Procedures.”  They further allege that the Bank 
proceeded with financing the project even though it had full knowledge of the expropriation and disputes 
between the Requesters and the Government of Lesotho (GOL), Republic of South Africa (RSA) and 
Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (LHDA).  They claim that the failure of the Bank to take steps 
to ensure that the Requesters' rights were duly respected before proceeding to the appraisal and financing of 
Phase 1A and 1B “constitutes complicity in the acts of expropriation and in the disputes, and violates its 
operational policies and procedures….”  The Requesters claim they have been harmed as a result of Bank 
failure to observe: 
 
Operational Policy (“OP”) 7.40 on Disputes over…Expropriation. 
Bank Procedure ("BP") 7.40 on Disputes over…Expropriation. 
BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information 
 
 
I am notifying you that I have on May 14, 1999, which is also the date of the dispatch of 
this notice, registered this Request in the Inspection Panel Register. Because the Panel's 
"registration" process has often been misunderstood, I would like to emphasize that "registration" is 
an administrative procedure established by the Panel and that it implies no judgment whatsoever 
concerning the eligibility of the request. 
Page  2
 
 
 
 
In accordance with paragraph 18 of IBRD Resolution No. 93-10 and paragraphs 2 and 8 of 
the "
Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel
.", Bank Management is 
hereby notified that it must provide the Panel no later than June 15, 1999 with written evidence that 
it has complied, or intends to comply with the relevant policies and procedures in the design and 
implementation of the above-referenced project.  The subject matter the Management must deal 
with in a response to the Request is set out in paragraph 3 and 4 of the "
Conclusions of the 
Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel
." 
 
After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as provided by paragraph 19 of 
the Resolution, “determine whether the Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 12 
to 14 and shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should 
be investigated.”
 
 
 
The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ99/2. 
 
 Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
     Jim MacNeill 
 Chairman 
 
  
 
  
TO: 
Dr. Dawie Botha 
 
c/o Rooth & Wessels 
 
First National Bank Building 
 Church 
Square 
 
P.O. Box 208 
 Pretoria 
0002 
 
Republic of South Africa 
 
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn  
 
 
 
 President 
 
 IBRD 
 Room 
MC12-750 
     
 
[by hand against confirmation] 
  
cc: 
The Executive Directors and Alternates 
IBRD 
 
 
