                                     The Inspection Panel

                                 Report and Recommendation
                                                  on
                                      Request of Inspection

       Re: Request for Inspection from Swissbourgh Diamond Mines (Pty) Ltd. & Others-Lesotho:
                                   Lesotho Highlands Water Project
                                         (Loan No: 4339-LSO)


   A. The Project

   1.      On April 26 1999, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a second Request for
   Inspection (the "Request") dated April 14, 1999 (Annex 1) related to the Lesotho Highlands
   Water Project (the "Project"). The Project is a common undertaking of the governments of the
   Kingdom of Lesotho and the Republic of South Africa agreed upon between themselves by way
   of a treaty dated October 24, 1986 (the "Treaty"). The Project basically consists of a large water
   scheme involving the construction of a series of dams and tunnels required for the storage and
   delivery of water from Lesotho to South Africa.

   2.        The Project's feasibility phase was financed by IDA through the Lesotho Highlands
   Water Engineering Project, Credit No. 1747-LSO, dated December 15, 1986. The Project's Phase
   1A was financed through Loan No. 3393-LSO, dated September 16, 1991. Granted to the
   Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (LHDA), it provided part of the financing for the
   Katse dam and reservoir and associated works for the delivery of water to South Africa. The
   reservoir inundated land over which the Requesters claim to have a mining lease. The Project's
   Phase 1B was financed through Loan No. 4339-LSO, dated December 18, 1998. It was granted
   to the same borrower, LHDA, and was guaranteed by the Kingdom of Lesotho (GOL) and the
   Republic of South Africa (RSA). Now in progress, this Phase consists mainly of the building of
   a third dam in the Mohale area plus a diversion tunnel at Matsoku to channel additional waters
   into the Katse dam towards the intake and transfer tunnels for delivery to South Africa.

B. THE REQUEST

   3.      The Requesters are companies registered in the Kingdom of Lesotho and South African
   nationals who have interests in their mining rights. The RSA nationals are shareholders in the
   Lesotho companies and have invested in the mining rights in Lesotho.

   4.      The Requesters claim that, "as a direct result of the implementation of the Lesotho
   Highlands Water Project, the Requesters' interests and investments (rights) in Lesotho have been
   unlawfully expropriated by the Government of Lesotho. No compensation has been offered or
   paid by the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority ("LHDA") and/or the Government of
   Lesotho ("GOL") and/or the Government of the Republic of South Africa ("RSA") and/or the

         Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority ("TCTA").1                        The expropriation has occurred with the
         knowledge, support and concurrence of the World Bank ("the Bank") which has funded both
         Phase 1 A and (more recently) Phase 1 B of the Project."

         5.       The Requesters also claim that "they have suffered harm ­ and continue to suffer harm -
         as a result of failures or omissions in the appraisal, monitoring and implementation by the Bank
         of Phase 1A and 1B of the Project." They maintain that they "have been deprived of their
         property rights and their entitlement to prompt, effective and adequate compensation. That
         deprivation would not have occurred if the Bank had complied with its Policies and Procedures."
         Specifically, the Requesters claim "that they have lost the ability to carry out mining activities
         pursuant to the leases granted to them in 1988. They have been deprived of their property and
         their livelihood. They have suffered financial damage including loss of profit."

         6.       The Requesters further allege that the Bank proceeded with financing of the project even
         though it had full knowledge of the expropriation and disputes between the Requesters and the
         GOL, RSA, LHDA, and TCTA. They claim that the Bank failed to take steps to ensure that the
         Requesters' rights were duly respected before proceeding to the appraisal and financing of Phase
         1A and 1B of the Project and that that "constitutes complicity in the acts of expropriation and in
         the disputes, and violates its operational policies and procedures...." Specifically the Requesters
         claim they have been harmed as a result of Bank failure to observe:

         ·        Operational Policy ("OP") 7.40 on Disputes over Defaults on
                  External Debt, Expropriation and Breach of Contract.
         ·        Bank Procedure ("BP") 7.40 on Disputes over Defaults on
                  External Debt, Expropriation and Breach of Contract.
         ·        BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information

         7.       The Requesters also claim that "the Bank violated UN Resolutions (economic and trade
         sanctions) imposed against RSA during 1991 by participating in a scheme to accommodate RSA's
         financial obligations in respect of the water transfer component of the Project, using Lesotho and,
         more specifically, LHDA as the vehicle therefore." This claim is clearly outside the mandate of
         the Panel.




1According to Paragraph 4 e) of the Project Appraisal Document (the "PAD"), TCTA "has been designated by RSA as the
authority responsible for ultimately bearing all projects costs and for servicing the Project debt".

         C. The Process

         8.       On May 14, 1999 the Panel notified the Executive Directors and Bank President of receipt
         of the Request (meaning "Registration" under the Panel's Operating Procedures).2 On June 15,
         1999 the Panel received Management's reply to the Request. (Annex 2)

         9.       Since the Panel was not satisfied that the Response provided evidence of compliance or
         intent to comply with Bank policies and procedures as required by paragraph 18 of the
         Resolution3 and 33 of the Panel's Operating Procedures, the Panel, on June 30, 1999, requested
         Management "[t]o provide evidence of the Bank's compliance with BP 17.50, OP 7.40 and
         especially with BP 7.40 which is referred to in detail in the Request of Inspection." In response,
         the Country Director for Lesotho and South Africa sent a memorandum to the Chairman of the
         Panel on July 6, 1999 (Annex 3) which included thirty-three attachments.

         10.      The Panel proceeded to determine whether the Request meets the eligibility criteria set out
         in paragraphs 12 to 14 of the Resolution. To this end, Messrs. Jim MacNeill and Edward
         Ayensu, on behalf of the Panel, carried out an initial field visit.4 They met with the Requesters,
         with representatives of the GOL and RSA, and with senior officials of the LHDA and the TCTA.
         The Panel also consulted with Bank officials in Washington and Pretoria and with the staff of the
         Executive Director representing Lesotho and South Africa.5

         D. ELIGIBILITY

         11.      Paragraph 9 of the 1999 Clarifications6 mentions certain "technical eligibility criteria" and
         the Panel concludes as follows:

                  a)         The Panel is satisfied that the affected party consists of two or more persons with
                  common interests or concerns and who are in the borrower's territory.

                  b)         The Request does assert in substance that a serious violation by the Bank of its
                  operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have a material adverse effect on the
                  Requester.

                  c)         The Request does assert that its subject matter has been brought to Management's
                  attention and that, in the Requesters' view, Management has failed to respond adequately
                  to it, thus demonstrating that it has followed or is taking steps to follow the Bank's
                  policies and procedures.

                  d)         The matter is not related to procurement.

2See The Inspection Panel, Operating Procedures (August 1994) at paragraph 36.
3Board Resolution Nos. IBRD 93-10 and IDA 93-6 that established the Inspection Panel (the "Resolution").
4Assisted by Mr. Eduardo G. Abbott, the Panel's Executive Secretary.
5The Panel wishes to thank the Country Director and staff and especially staff of the World Bank office in Pretoria for arranging meetings
with government officials and project authorities in Lesotho and South Africa and for providing logistical support during the field visit.
The Panel also whishes to thank the Executive Director for South Africa and his staff for their helpful comments and guidance.
6The 1999 Clarifications to the Resolution are contained in the "Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection
Panel" dated April 20, 1999.

       e)       The related loan has not been closed or substantially disbursed.

The Panel is satisfied with the prima facie evidence about the existence of a dispute over
expropriation of mining leases in Lesotho throughout the appraisal and implementation of the
project and that one of the main subjects of this dispute concerns a mining lease over an area
included in the project area.

The Request refers to IDA Credit 1747-LSO and Bank Loans 3393-LSO and 4339-LSO. Since
Credit 1747-LSO was closed on December 30, 1990 and Loan 3393-LSO was closed on March
31,1999, --both before the submission of the Request, --the Panel will deal exclusively with
matters related to Loan 4339-LSO pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 14(c) of the
Resolution.

       f)       The Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the subject matter.

12.    The Panel is therefore satisfied that all the technical eligibility criteria referred to in the
1999 Clarifications have been met.

13.    In its Response, Management "[d]raws the attention of the Panel to the decision taken by
the Board of Executive Directors on July 6, 1995, in connection with the Inspection Panel case
relating to the Papassinos property in Ethiopia. That request related to the application of the
provisions of OMS 1.28, the precursor policy statement of OP 7.40. In that connection, the
Executive Directors decided on June 8, 1995, with respect to OMS 1.28 (now OP 7.40 in
substance) that the Resolution does not include a mandate for the Panel to review the consistency
of Bank or IDA actions with respect to any of their policies and procedures, but only with those
policies and procedures that relate to the design, appraisal, and/or implementation of any project
financed by them. Management believes that this previous Inspection Panel case is relevant to
the determination of the eligibility of the Request."

14.    The Panel notes that the above-referred Board decision concerns a series of memoranda
sent by Management to the Board and an exchange of memoranda between the then Chairman of
the Inspection Panel and the then Senior Vice President and General Counsel.                The first
memorandum (reference IDA/R 95-83) from the President ad interim (which was submitted to
Board approval on a non-objection basis) stated that "[n]either the Requesters' claim, nor OMS
1.28, which is the basis of the Requesters' claim, covers any matters related to the design,
appraisal and/or implementation of any project financed by the Bank or IDA" and concluded that
"[t]he correct reading of the Resolution makes this particular request inadmissible irrespective of
whether or not it meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Resolution."

15.    In the case presently before the Panel, however, unlike the Papassinos case, the Request
for Inspection does refer to a specific project and to specific provisions of OP and BP 7.40 that,
according to the Requesters, Management violated in the appraisal, submission to the Board for
approval and implementation of this particular project causing them material harm.                The
Requesters' statement that at "all material times since July 1991 the Bank had actual knowledge
of the expropriation and the disputes" has been confirmed by Management's statements and the

Panel's own review of the Requesters' correspondence and project files.           The Requesters'
allegations and Management's Response are discussed below.


E. Management's Compliance with Bank Policies and Procedures

16.     In the Panel's view, there is prima facie evidence that Management has failed to comply
with some of the relevant policies and procedures of the Bank.


17.     Paragraph 2 of BP 7.40 states that: "[i]f, at the time a loan is presented to the executive
directors for approval, there are any substantial amounts in dispute between the borrowing
country and suppliers or lenders to, or investors in, that country, the matter is mentioned in the
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President/President's Report."


18.     In the Panel's opinion, at the time Loan 4339-LSO was submitted for Board approval
(April 30, 1998) the Bank was aware of the existence of an ongoing dispute over the
expropriation of rights over certain mining leases and that the amounts in dispute were
substantial. Furthermore, the area of one of these mining leases (known as the Rampai lease)
extends over at least half of the catchment area of the Katse Dam, which is part of the project.


19.     At that time, a ruling of the Court of Appeals of Lesotho dated January 13, 1995 was in
effect. This ruling stated, inter alia, that the Revocation Order of the Lesotho Government that
dispossessed the Requesters of all their mineral rights "invades the protection of property without
any compensation and without any reason asserted to support such invasion." Also at that time an
application by LHDA to have the Rampai lease declared invalid, because of alleged procedural
irregularities in the granting of the lease, was before the Lesotho High Court. Only on April 28,
1999, Lesotho's Honorable Chief Justice upheld LHDA's claim and set aside the Rampai lease.
The Requesters are currently appealing this judgement before the Lesotho Court of Appeals and it
may well be at least several months before this dispute is settled.


20.     The amounts claimed by the Requesters in 1991 ranged from a "conservative" Rand (R)
81,654,540 to R 620,698,545 (well over one hundred million dollars) plus monetary adjustment
and interests. Both TCTA (since 1994) and LHDA (since 1996) have reflected this dispute as a
contingent liability in their annual financial statements, although in the widely varying amounts
of R 507 million and R 81 million respectively.


21.     On February 10, 1998 the Requesters delivered a letter to the Bank accusing it of direct or
indirect participation in the "unlawful dispossession of SDM's [the Requesters'] lawful rights"
and mentioning "possible legal proceedings to be instituted against the World Bank" and others.

22.     In other words, regardless of the merits of the legal disputes which are to be decided by
the Courts, there is no doubt that at the time Loan 4339-LSO was "presented to the Executive
Directors for approval" there were substantial amounts in dispute between LHDA (the borrower),
GOL, RSA and TCTA, and the Requesters. Furthermore, such disputes related in part to the
project area and the Bank was being threatened with a lawsuit. In spite of the foregoing the PAD
did not mention the dispute. Management behavior on this matter seems to be in clear violation
of the above-referenced paragraph 3 of BP 7.40.


23.     Paragraph 1 of BP 7.40 contains other specific procedural provisions to be followed by
Management in cases of disputes over expropriation. Said paragraph establishes the procedure to
be followed to allow the Regional Vice President to decide on the Bank's position on the matter.
Although Management's Response and a review of project files do not provide a clear description
as to how the decision was made, it is clear that the Bank decided to continue lending to Lesotho,
because in Management's opinion, the borrower was making reasonable efforts to settle the
dispute by submitting matter to the Courts and the dispute was not substantially harming the
country's international credit standing.


24.     Compliance or non-compliance with the provisions of OP 7.40 is more difficult to
ascertain since the OP seems to provide considerable latitude to Management when establishing
how reasonable are a country's efforts to settle a dispute over expropriation and to what extent
such dispute may be affecting its international credit standing. In this case, Management is
satisfied with GOL's, LHDA's and TCTA's assertions that they will abide by the Courts' rulings
on the matter and that the dispute is not affecting their international credit standing. The Panel
did not find any prima facie evidence of facts or factors that would indicate that Management's
position on this matter could be regarded as unreasonable.


25.     Concerning BP 17.50, paragraph 5 states that "[i]f an interested party requests additional
technical information about a project under preparation, the country department director releases
factual technical documents, or portions of such documents, after consulting with the government
to identify any sections that involve confidential material or that could compromise relations
between the government and the Bank." According to information provided by Management
however, it simply referred the Requesters to the InfoShop. The Panel is not satisfied that
Management has complied in full with the provisions of this paragraph.


F. CONCLUSION

26.     The Panel is of the opinion that Management has failed to comply with some of the
applicable policies and procedures as explained above. In its judgment, however, there seems to
be no direct link between any actions and/or omissions of the Bank and the harm claimed by the
Requesters.

27.     As for alleged harm, the Panel notes that the Requesters are currently appealing the April
29, 1999 High Court judgment in the Lesotho Court of Appeals, and therefore have not exhausted
all of the possible legal remedies available to them.


G. RECOMMENDATION

28.     Based on the foregoing, the Panel does not recommend an investigation into the
matters alleged in the Request.

      ANNEX 1


REQUEST FOR INSPECTION

   Request to the World Bank Inspection Panel
   lodged by Swissbourgh Diamond Mines (Pty)
   Ltd & Others 14 April 1999




                  REQUEST FOR INSPECTION


                          To the WORLD BANK INSPECTION PANEL
                   1818 H Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20433, USA




                                          INDEX TO REQUEST


Volume 1A                                 Pages A1 to A15           The Request
Volume 1B                                 Pages B1 to B144          Annexure 1
Volume 2                                  Pages 1 to 322            Attachments 1 to 5
Volume 3                                  Pages 323 to 566          Attachment 6 to 23
Volume 4                                  Pages 567 to 870          Attachments 24 to 31
Volume 5                                  Pages 871 to 946.28       Attachments 32 to 37
Volume 6                                  Pages 94 7 to 1295        Annexures 2 & 3




                                                                Swissbourgh Diamond Mines (Pty) Ltd & Others
                                                                                               P 0 Box 1313
                                                                                      BEDFOROVIEW 2008
                                                                                    Republic of South Africa
                                                                                       Tel: +2711 450-2433
                                                                                    Fax: +2711 450-1545

                      REQUEST FOR INSPECTION


                     TO THE WORLD BANK INSPECTION PANEL
                    1818 H St, NW, Washington, D.C. 20433, USA



 This request for Inspection is brought by:


                                        THE REQUESTERS

1          Swissbourgh Diamond Mines (Pty) Limited             First Requester

2          Matsoku Diamond (Pty) Limited                       Second Requester

3          Patiseng Diamonds (Pty) Limited                     Third Requester

4          Orange Diamonds (Pty) Limited                       Forth Requester

5          Motete Diamonds (Pty) Limited                       Fifth Requester

6          Rampai Diamonds (Pty) Limited                       Sixth Requester

7          Josias van Zyl                                      Seventh Requester

8          Josias van Zyl Family Trust                         Eighth Requester

9          Burmilla Trust                                      Ninth Requester



  Together "the Requesters"


 The Request comprises this Request to which is incorporated Annexures 1 to 3
 and Attachments 1 to 37.

 The Requesters are companies registered in the Kingdom of Lesotho and South
 African nationals who have interests in the rights. The RSA nationals are
 shareholders in the Lesotho companies and have invested in the mining

rights in Lesotho. As a direct result of the implementation of the Lesotho
Highlands Water Project ("the Project") the Requesters interests and
investments ("rights") in Lesotho have been unlawfully expropriated by the
Government of Lesotho. No compensation has been offered or paid by the
Lesotho Highlands Development Authority ("LHDA ") and/or the Government of
Lesotho ("GOL "), and/or the Government of the Republic of South Africa
("RSA'') and/or the Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority ("TCTA "). The
expropriation has occurred with the knowledge, support and concurrence of the
World Bank ("the Bank") which has funded both Phase 1A and (more recently)
Phase 1 B of the Project.

The Project consists of the water transfer component (which constitutes about
95% of the total costs) and the hydro-electric power generation component.
RSA is responsible for the financing of the water transfer component and GOL
is solely responsible for financing the hydro power portion. RSA assisted GOL
in certain of its finance obligations in respect of the hydro power component of
the Project.

Beyond its financial support, the Bank provides monitoring of total project
execution. The Bank has at all times had actual knowledge of the unlawful
expropriation and the disputes which ensued. It has failed to take any steps to
remedy, alternatively to ensure that Lesotho and/or South Africa remedy the
situation. The factual details are set out in Annexure 1 to this Request. A
detailed chronology of the events is set out in Annexure 2.


   1.     The Requesters present this Request for Inspection because they
   have suffered harm - and continue to suffer harm - as a result of failures or
   omissions in the appraisal, monitoring and implementation

by the Bank of Phase 1 A and 1 B of the Project. Specifically, the Requesters
have been deprived of their property rights and their entitlement to prompt,
effective and adequate compensation. That deprivation would not have
occurred if the Bank had complied with its Policies and Procedures.


1.1       List of failures or omissions the Requesters believe are the
          Bank's responsibility

          In order to implement the Project GOL has expropriated the
          Requesters rights in the Rampai area of Lesotho and elsewhere: see
          Attachments 1 & 8. It has done so without paying any compensation,
          in a manner described by the then President of the Lesotho Court of
          Appeal as invading "the protection of property without any
          compensation and without any reason asserted to support such
          invasion" and purporting "to effect such invasion without any recourse
          to any court of Law" (see Annexure 1, para 58).

     The Bank has proceeded to appraise, monitor, implement and finance
     the Project even though it has had - at the time it financed Phase 1A
     and 1B of the Project - actual and direct knowledge of the Requesters'
     rights and interests, the expropriation and the disputes between the
     Requesters and GOL, RSA and LHDA. Before deciding to proceed to
     the appraisal and financing of Phase 1A (in 1991) and Phase 1B (in
     1998) the Bank should have taken steps to ensure that the
     Requesters' rights were duly respected, fully protected and the
     disputes resolved. The failure of the Bank to do so constitutes
     complicity in the acts of expropriation and in the disputes, and violates
     its operational policies and procedures by proceeding to participate in
     the Project in full knowledge of the expropriation and the disputes the
     Bank has contributed in a material and direct way to the violation of
     the Requesters' rights. It is responsible for that violation, which would
     not have occurred if its policies and procedures had been followed.

     The Bank violated UN Resolutions (economic and trade sanctions)
     imposed against RSA during 1991 by participating in a scheme to
     accommodate RSA's financial obligations in respect of the water
     transfer component of the Project, using Lesotho more specifically
     LHDA as the vehicle therefore. The Bank's conduct in this regard was
     during March 1994 protected when the then apartheid regime granted
     various organisations within the Bank immunities and privileges
     against civil and criminal prosecution in the South African courts (see
     Annexure 1 para 51).

1.2  Description of the damage or harm resulting from the failures or
     omissions

     As a result of the Bank's failures and its contribution to implement and
     support the unlawful expropriation, the Requesters have been deprived
     of their rights to peaceful enjoyment of property, including the right to
     fair, full and prompt compensation. Specifically, the Requesters have
     lost the ability to carry out mining activities pursuant to the leases
     granted to them in 1988. They have been deprived of their property
     and their livelihood. They have suffered financial damage including
     loss of profit. These losses are directly attributable to the Bank, which
     co-financed the Project and clearly approved of the implementation
     procedures and unlawful expropriation methods employed and thereby
     indicated to GOL and RSA that expropriatory acts of this kind and
     human rights abuses of the kind referred to by the then Chief Justice,
     His Lordship B P Cullinan (as quoted in Annexure 1) will not preclude
     the involvement of the Bank.

1.3  List or description of the Bank policies and procedures which
     have not been observed

     The Bank has explicit policies and procedures dealing with
     expropriation situations of this kind. It failed to follow them in 1991
     and thereafter in respect of Phase 1 A of the Project, and again in
     1998 and thereafter in respect of Phase 1 B of the Project. The
     following operational policies and procedures pertain to the design,
     appraisal, monitoring and/or implementation and/or execution of a
     project financed by the Bank, inter alia:

     ·       Operational Policy 7.40 (Disputes over Defaults on External
     Debt, Expropriation, and Breach of Contract),

     ·       Bank Procedure 7.40 (Disputes over Defaults on External Debt,
     Expropriation, and Breach of Contract), and

     ·       Bank Procedures 17.50 (Disclosure of Operational Information)

     At all material times since July 1991 the Bank had actual knowledge of
     the expropriation and the disputes. If it had followed the requirements
     of these Policies and Procedures the rights of the Requesters would
     have been respected and protected. Specifically, under these Policies
     and Procedures the Bank was required inter alia to:

     ·       suspend the disbursement of any financial resources in relation
     to Phase 1 A of the Project, in particular the $US 110 million
     facility approved on 16 September 1991;

     ·       suspend forthwith the disbursement of any further financial
     resources in relation to Phase 1 B of the Project, in particular the
     $US 45 million facility approved on 4 June 1998 and subsequently in a
     further funding agreement concluded between the Bank, GOL and
     RSA on or around 18 December 1998;

       ·     consider whether to continue lending for and/ or sanctioning
     new projects in Lesotho

     ·       not appraise Phase 1A of the Project whilst the dispute as to
     expropriation was pending;

       ·     not appraise Phase 1B of the Project whilst the dispute as to
     expropriation was pending;

       ·     seek to improve communications between the Requesters and
     GOL and RSA;

       ·     promote a prompt and adequate settlement of the disputes;

                ·       perform the various steps required under Bank Procedure 7.40
                (with a view to ensuring that its financial and other acts did not
                contribute to and/or condone an unlawful expropriation);

                ·       provide the Requesters with copies of all Project information
                Documents and Staff Appraisal Reports in relation to them and in
                relation to the Project (including Phases 1 A and 1 B and such other
                phases in respect of which the Bank sanctioned and is contemplating
                the provision and/or sanctioning of further financial support);

                ·       assist the Requesters in achieving a prompt and adequate
                settlement of the disputes between GOL and RSA and the Bank.

    It has failed to take any of these steps.

2   The Requesters' complaints have been raised with the Bank's staff
    by correspondence and efforts to meet with its representatives.

    2.1         As set out in Attachment 2 to this Request, the Requesters have
    written to the Bank in Pretoria and at headquarters in Washington DC to
    complain about its conduct (acts) since 1993, as well as the acts of GOL, RSA,
    LHDA and TCTA. The chronology of the correspondence is referred to in
   Attachment 2, copies of the communications themselves are already in
    possession of the Bank.

    2.2         The Bank's responses were not substantive, it has failed and/or
    refused to provide documents and information, or to seek to resolve the
    disputes (see e.g. letter dated 25 March 1998 Attachment 2 [SDM ref
    2059.131). It has acknowledged receipt of some of the correspondence
    (confirming its actual knowledge of the expropriation and the disputes). And by a
    letter of 19 January 1999 it has claimed immunity from legal action in the
    national courts of Lesotho in relation to this matter: see Attachment 3.

    2.3         By letter dated 1 July 1993 Mr Josias van Zyl (the Seventh Requester)
    wrote to the then President of the Bank enclosing a Press Statement issued by
    SDM, drawing attention to the unlawful expropriation and interference with the
    Requesters' property rights and the refusal of RSA and GOL to hold independent
    inquiries: see Attachment 22. The Press statement inter alia refers to the decree
    (the Revocation Order) by which the First and Sixth Requesters' rights had been
    expropriated without compensation. [The Bank did not respond].

    2.4         By letter dated 10 February 1998 the Requesters provided the Bank
    with all relevant documentation pertaining to the expropriation and the disputes
    with GOL and RSA: see Attachment 2 [SDM ref 990.1 - 990.3 enclosed thereto
    volumes 1 to 4 ref 989.1 to 989.818].           The documentation included the
    constitutional request for access to state documents from RSA President Dr
    Nelson Mandela together with Annexures in which all the facts, allegations and

supporting documentation were submitted. Furthermore, the Annexures included
the decisions of the Lesotho court of first instance and appeal court in relation to
the striking down of the Revocation Order. [The Bank did not respond.]

2.5         By letter dated 26 February 1998 the Requesters wrote to Mrs Judith
Edstrom in Pretoria (with a request to copy the letter to the President of the World
Bank in Washington) requesting copies of and access to all documents
exchanged between the Bank, GOL, RSA, LHDA and TCTA involving and/or
relating to and/or concerning and/or affecting the First Requester and its rights in
respect of the LHWP for the period 1991 to 1999: see Attachment 2 [SDM ref
2059.73 to 2059.75]. Mrs Edstrom responded in a letter dated 26 February 1998
directing the request to Mr Arnaud Guinard, task team leader of the LHWP in
Washington. [The Bank did not respond to the request and other allegations
made in the Requesters' letter]

2.6         By letter dated 13 March 1998 the Requesters wrote to Messrs.
Guinard and Roome as Task Team Leaders of the LHWP Project at the Bank,
requesting the Bank to act as mediator in the dispute over expropriation: see
Attachment 2 [SDM ref 2059.91 to 2059.111]. The letter identified the various
claims for damages on the part of each of the Claimant companies. (The Bank in
a letter dated 25 March 1998 declined to act as mediator: see Attachment 2
[SDM ref 2059.131])

2.7         By letters dated 27 March and 22 April 1998 the Requesters again
wrote to the Bank's Task Team Leaders, calling on the Bank to take action to halt
LHDA efforts to maintain the claim to lawful expropriation: see Attachment 2
[SDM ref 2059.112 and 2059.113 to 2059.130]. Full documentation was
provided.[The Bank did not respond].

2.8         By letters dated 10 May, 13 May, 29 September and 15 October 1998
the Bank was further kept fully informed of developments as to the dispute over
the expropriation: see Attachment 2 [SDM ref 2059.144 to 2059.229]. [The Bank
did not respond].

2.9         By a Rooth & Wessels letter dated 21 December 1998 addressed to
the President of the Bank, the Requesters notified the Bank that proceedings in
Lesotho against LHDA (for unlawful expropriation) had been instigated (case
CIV/T/348/98): see Attachment 2 [SDM ref 2073.1 to 2073.48]. The Bank was
provided with a copy of the summons. The Particulars of the claimants' claim
were provided to the Bank's Pretoria office. The Claimants further requested
documentation in relation to the case and outlined the allegations against the
Bank [The Bank did not respond.]

2.10        By a further letter of 14 October 1998, the Requesters asked for
copies of World Bank Appraisal Reports on the Project for the period 1990 to
1998 be forwarded to them: see Attachment 2 [SDM ref 2059.219]. [The Bank
did not respond.]

           2.11   By a Rooth & Wessels letter dated 16 February 1999: see Attachment 2
                  addressed to the President of the Bank the Requesters invited the Bank
                  to explain its position, and specifically:

                  1. to suspend forthwith the disbursement of any further financial
                  resources in relation to Phases 1 A and 1 B of the Project, in particular the
                  $US 45 million facility approved on 4 June 1998 and further funding
                  subsequently agreed on or around 18 December 1998;

                  2. To explain inter alia how the Bank has complied with the requirements
                  of Operational Policy 7.40, including the obligations:
                       ·    to consider whether to continue lending for new projects in
                       Lesotho,

                       ·    to not appraise Phase 1 B of the Project whilst the dispute as
                       to expropriation was pending,

                       ·    to improve communications between the Claimants and the
                       Government of Lesotho,

                       ·    to promote a prompt and adequate settlement of the disputes,
                       and

                       ·    to perform the various steps required under Bank Procedure
                       7.40.

                  3         to provide the Claimants with copies of all Project Information
                  Documents and Staff Appraisal Reports in relation to the Project
                  (including Phases 1A and 1B and such other phases in respect of which
                  the Bank is contemplating the provision of further financial support); and

                  4         to assist the Claimants in achieving a prompt and adequate
                  settlement of the outstanding disputes with GOL.           The Requesters
                  indicated to the Bank that they would be willing to meet with its
                  representatives to discuss the above, and that in the absence of a
                  substantive response to the letter by 26 February 1999 they would
                  commence proceedings against the Bank. The Bank's response was not
                  substantive, it did not address the issues raised and was unacceptable to
                  the Requesters.

3       In addition, the Requesters have taken steps to resolve their disputes with GOL,
RSA, LHIDA, TCTA and the Bank as to the expropriation and the failure to provide
compensation. As set out in Annexure 1 (at paras. 46, 49 & 66), legal proceedings have
been commenced against GOL, LHIDA, RSA and TCTA. The Requesters have reserved
their right to bring proceedings against the Bank, and are first filing this Request in the
spirit of reaching an appropriate resolution of the disputes.

4      The Bank, during the period April 1991 to the present, inter alia unlawfully and
intentionally participated in and supported the unlawful expropriation of the Requesters'
rights and investments in the Kingdom of Lesotho in the execution of the LHWP, and the
failure to compensate the Requesters.

5      The Requesters request that the Inspection Panel recommend to the Bank's
executive directors that an investigation of the violation by the Bank of its policies and
procedures be carried out. The investigation to include its financing, appraisal, monitoring
and implementation of the Project and the expropriation of the Requesters' lease rights. As
advised in your Operating Procedures, this Request for Inspection is brief. A detailed
factual summary is set out at Annexure 1, together with Maps and Attachments, to which
is incorporated Attachments 1 to 37 and Annexures 2 and 3. The Requesters will be
pleased to provide the Inspection Panel with more information as required and to meet
with the Panel as necessary.

6         The Requesters' rights to institute such proceedings against the Bank and/or any
person or entity in any forum in the world as they may be advised and to supplement and
amplify this request for inspection, are expressly reserved.

7      The Requesters authorize and request the Inspection Panel to make this request
public.

8      Communications in respect of this Request should be addressed to Dr Dawie
Botha, c/o Rooth & Wessels, First National Bank Building, Church Square, P.O. Box 208
Pretoria, 0002, Republic of South Africa, telephone +2712/325-2940, fax +2712/323-0344.

      ANNEX 2

MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE

THE WORLD BANK/IFC/M.I.G.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM

     DATE:   June 14, 1999

     TO:     Jim MacNeill, Chairperson, Inspection Panel

     FROM:   Shengman Zhang, Managing Director

     EXTENSION:     80242

     SUBJECT:       Lesotho: Lesotho Highlands Water Project (Phase 1B)
                    Management Response to the Request for Inspection

     1.      Reference is made to the Memorandum, dated May 14, 1999, to the President of
     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), by which the Chairman
     of the Inspection Panel requested Bank Management to provide the Panel with written
     evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply, with the relevant policies and procedures
     in the implementation of the Project referenced above.

     I.      Summary Account of the Request

     2.      The Request is filed by a group of nine mining companies registered in the Kingdom
     of Lesotho. The Requesters allege that they hold mineral lease rights located within a
     geographic area encompassing land that was inundated as a result of the construction of the
     Katse dam and more specifically known as the Rampai area. They claim that the said rights
     "have been unlawfully expropriated by the Government of Lesotho" without any
     compensation in order to further the implementation of Phase 1A of the Lesotho Highlands
     Water Project (LHWP) which has been financed by the Bank through Loan No. 3393-LSO,
     dated September 16, 1991, and granted to the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (the
     Borrower). They further allege that the said expropriation is a direct result of the Bank's
     failure to have followed its operational policies and procedures when it agreed to finance the
     initial phase of the LHWP (Phase 1A) in 1991. Furthermore, the Requesters allege that they
     have been further harmed by the Bank's failure to follow its operational policies and
     procedures when the Bank decided to finance the following phase of the LHWP, known as
     Phase 1B, through Loan No. 4339-LSO, dated December 18, 1998, and granted to the same
     Borrower.

     3.      Specifically, the Requesters allege that the Bank has violated OP 7.40, Disputes over
     Defaults on External Debt, Expropriation and Breach of Contract, and BP 17.50, Disclosure
     of Operational Information.

     4.      The Management response to the alleged violations is structured as follows:
     First, the Response provides a brief background of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project.
     Second, it confirms that the Bank has fully complied with the requirements of OP 7.40 and

BP 17.50.     Finally, it provides information to be taken into account by the Panel in
determining the eligibility of the Request.


II.     Background information on the Lesotho Highlands Water Project

5.      The Lesotho Highlands Water Project is a common undertaking of the governments
of the Kingdom of Lesotho and the Republic of South Africa agreed upon between
themselves by way of a treaty dated October 24, 1986 (the Treaty). Basically, the LHWP
consists of a large water scheme to be developed progressively in five successive phases. The
initial phase, known under the Treaty as Phase 1A was initiated in 1986 and was financed by
IDA through the Lesotho Highlands Water Engineering Project, (Credit No. 1747-LSO dated
December 15, 1986) to carry out the required feasibility studies. Subsequent to the successful
conclusion of those studies, a consortium of international lenders, including the Bank, was
mobilized to provide the funding needed to finance the construction of the initial series of
dams and tunnels required for the storage and delivery of waters from Lesotho to South
Africa. The total amount of funds raised for the purpose was about $ 2.5 billions of which the
Bank provided $ 110 million through Loan No. 3393-LSO, dated September 16, 1991. The
implementation of Phase 1A has been fully completed and the related Bank Loan was closed
on March 31, 1999. In accordance with their obligations under the Treaty, Lesotho and South
Africa are now proceeding with the implementation of Phase 1B of the LHWP, which
consists mainly of the construction of a third dam in the Mohale area plus a diversion tunnel
at Matsoku to channel additional waters into the Katse dam towards the intake and transfer
tunnels for delivery to South Africa. The total amount of funds mobilized for Phase 1B from
international lenders is about $1.5 billion of which the Bank is providing $ 45 million
through Loan No. 4339-LSO, dated December 18, 1998. The Bank Loan for Phase 1A was
guaranteed by the Kingdom of Lesotho, with additional security arrangements in the form of
a deed of trust entered into between the lenders and the Republic of South Africa. The Bank
Loan for Phase 1B is guaranteed by both the Kingdom of Lesotho and the Republic of South
Africa.


III.    Compliance by the Bank with requirements of OP 7.40 and BP 17.50

6.      The Bank Management wishes to confirm that it has fully complied with the
requirements of OP 7.40 and BP 17.50, as detailed below.

7.      With respect to the alleged violation of OP 7.40, it should be noted that the
requirements of the said policy are that when the Bank considers lending for a country with
ongoing disputes relating to expropriation of property of aliens, the Bank must form for itself
an opinion as to whether the concerned country is making reasonable efforts to settle the
disputes and as to whether the said disputes are substantially harming the country's
international credit standing. In this regard, the Management submits to the Panel that
throughout the implementation of Phase 1A and, subsequently, during the preparation of
Phase 1B, the Bank had asked the Borrower to advise it of the steps being undertaken to
settle the expropriation dispute between the Borrower and the Requesters. The Borrower
provided the Bank with its legal position on the dispute by indicating in substance the
following: (i) in the Borrower's best informed opinion, the disputed mineral lease had been

granted illegally; (ii) the dispute had been submitted to the relevant courts; and (iii) the
Borrower was prepared to abide by any final decision to be rendered in the case by the
relevant courts. Finally, on May 1, 1999, the Borrower delivered to the Bank a copy of the
latest judgment rendered in the case by the High Court of Lesotho on April 28, 1999; the said
judgment has declared against the Requesters by pronouncing the disputed mining lease to be
null and void from its inception on the legal ground that it was granted in flagrant violation of
the procedures prescribed by the relevant provisions of the Mining Rights Act No 43 of 1967.
Indeed, the final disposition of the judgement reads as follows: "In summary the Counter-
Application is granted in terms of prayers 1 and 2."; those prayers read as follows:

        "1. Declaring mining lease registered under No. 21044 in the Deeds Registry, in
Maseru, on 26 October, 1988, entered into between the Basotho Nation and Swissbourgh
Diamond Mines (Pty) Limited in respect of the Rampai Area, void ab initio and of no force
and effect;
        2. Canceling the entry in the register of the Registrar of Deeds, Maseru, relating to the
aforesaid mining lease; ..."

8.      In light of all the circumstances described above, the Bank's informed opinion
throughout the processing of both Phase 1A and Phase 1B projects has been that the
Borrower was making reasonable efforts to settle the dispute with the Requesters in a manner
consistent with the requirements of OP 7.40. In addition, the Bank also concluded that the
expropriation dispute at hand was not substantially harming Lesotho's international credit
standing. Indeed, the Bank's judgment with respect to Lesotho's international credit standing
has been confirmed by the fact that Lesotho has continued to enjoy substantial financial
support from international credit markets as is abundantly evidenced, inter alia, by the
mobilization of the required funding for Phase 1A and 1B of the LHWP in an aggregate
amount equivalent to more than $ 4 billion.

9.      With respect to the alleged violations of the requirements of BP 17.50, it should be
noted that BP 17.50 was adopted by the Bank in September 1993; therefore, its requirements
were not in effect when Loan No. 3393-LSO was granted for LHWP Phase 1A. With respect
to Loan No. 4339-LSO, the Requesters had asked the Bank to submit to them any and all
information and documents in the Bank's files as they pertain to the LHWP. The disclosure
requirements stipulated under BP 17.50 do not require the Bank to provide open and full
access to the Bank's project files to the public or to the Requesters, as they had claimed. In
keeping with the letter and spirit of BP 17.50, the staff advised the Requesters to contact the
Public Information Center (now the Infoshop) to obtain all information pertaining to the
Project that was available for release to the public in accordance with the provisions of BP
17.50.

10.     Management is of the opinion that it has complied in full with the actions expected
from the Bank under OP 7.40 and has also fully complied with BP 17.50. Indeed, with
respect to BP 17.50, the information pertaining to Loan No. 4339-LSO is still available at the
Infoshop.


IV.     Eligibility of the Request

11.     The Bank Management would like the Panel to take the following into account in
determining the eligibility of the Request.

12.     As the Requesters themselves stated, the alleged expropriation of the disputed
Rampai mineral lease was carried out by the Government of Lesotho in 1988 during the time
when the Lesotho Highlands Water Engineering Project (Credit No. 1747-LSO) was being
carried out. This credit has closed and the subsequent Loan made by the Bank on September
16, 1991 (Loan No. 3393-LSO), closed on March 31, 1999. Thus, if one were to argue that
the alleged violations of Bank policies took place at the time of the expropriation (of lands to
which the granting of mineral rights has now been declared null and void by the Lesotho
courts) in 1988 and of the related Bank-financed operation, the Request appears to be
debarred. As provided in the Resolution and the clarifications, "requests filed after the
Closing Date of the loan financing the project with respect to which the request is filed or
after the loan financing the project has been substantially disbursed" may not be heard by the
Panel.

13.     Management also draws the attention of the Panel to the decision taken by the Board
of Executive Directors on July 6, 1995, in connection with the Inspection Panel case relating
to the Papassinos property in Ethiopia.       That request related to the application of the
provisions of OMS 1.28, the precursor policy statement of OP 7.40. In that connection the
Executive Directors decided on June 8 1995, with respect to OMS 1.28 (now OP 7.40 in
substance) that the Resolution does not include a mandate for the Panel to review the
consistency of Bank or IDA actions with respect to any of their policies and procedures, but
only with those policies and procedures that relate to the design, appraisal, and/or
implementation of any project financed by them. Management believes that this previous
Inspection Panel case is relevant to the determination of the eligibility of the Request.

14.     It should also be noted that in compliance with the provisions of OP 7.40, the Bank
has not interfered with or passed any judgment on the dispute between the Requesters, the
Borrower, and the Government of Lesotho, which is before the courts in Lesotho. It is clear
from paragraph 7 above that the matter is being resolved through the courts, and both the
Government of Lesotho and the Borrower have indicated their willingness to abide by any
final decision rendered.


V.      Conclusion

15.     Bank Management concludes that it has complied in full with the provisions of OP
7.40 and it has responded in full in accordance with its policies as set forth in BP 17.50 with
respect to the request for information by the Requesters.

