U'.- 49.5 y - Afoe
Document of
The World Bank
FOR o CIaL USE ONW
MICROF ICHE CO' Y
Report No.:P- 5609-MOZ    Type: 'PH)
Title:  MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION                        ReperN.. P-5809-NOZ
Author: CROOKES, YUSJPHAP
Ext. :3>322- Room:Jll1-39 Dept.:AF6IN
MEMORANDUIM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TME
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERN,TIONAL DEVELOPET ASSOCIATION
XCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 6.6 MILLION
TO THE
REUBLIC OF NDZAWBIQUE
FOR THE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECENICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
DECE1BER 28, 1992
This document has a restricted distnWbuton and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othervise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                        M Metical (plural Meticais [Mtsj)
US$1.00                        -     1,931.43 Mts (03101192)
Mt 1000                              US$0.52
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                    -            3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (a')            -            10.76 square feet (itf)
1 hectare (ha)                 -             2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               -             0.62 miles (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                '            2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t)                      -            2240 pounds llbs)
1 metric tonne '¶ut)           =            1.10 tons (t)
1 pennyweight (dwt)            -             1.56 grams (g)
1 cubic meter (ah)             -           35.71 cubic feet (fte)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYHS
CCCE              *      Caisse Centrile pour le Cooperation Economique
CIDA              -      Canadian International Development Agency
CFM               -      Empresa Nacional de Portos E Caminhos de Ferro de
Mocambique, B.E.
CPM-Centro        *      Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique (Centro)
CFM-Norte         m      Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique (Norte)
CPM-Sul           -      Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique (Sul)
EC                -      European Community
UVil              -      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MTC                -     Ministry of Transport and Communications
NR                -      National Railways of Zimbabwe
ntkm               -     Net tons kilometer
ODA                -     Overseas Development Administration
RSA                -     Republic of South Africa
TEU               -      Twenty-foot equivalent container unit
tpa               =      Tons per annum
USAID             *      United States Agency fcr International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Jxuar.- ' = December 31



FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
MAPUTO CORRIDOR RYIMThLIZATION (TECNINCAL ASSXSTANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJIOT SIDOARY
,Borrowers                     Republic of Mozambique
BeneficLariess                Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) &
Empresa Nacional de Porto E Caminhos de Ferro de
Mocambique, E.E. (CFM)
Credit Amounts                 SDR 6.6 million (US$9.3 million equivalent)
Term*:                         Standard IDA term with 40 years maturity
OneLdl  TermsSDR 1.06 million (US$1.5 million equivalent),
representing the estimated cost of equipment to
be procured under the project, will be on-lent
to CFM at a fixed interest rate of 92 for a ternm
of 15 years, including a grace period of five
years: cPM will bear the foreign exchange risk.
uSn (million)
Finamsnc     Plan:             IDA                            9.3
Government                     0.5
ODA                            0.1
USAID                          0.6
Total                        aLA
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Staff Apsraisal Report:       None
Maps$                          IBRD No. 21355
IBRD No. 23715
IBRD No. 23716
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TEE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO MOZAMBIQUE
FOR THE NAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
1.    I submit the following memorandum and recormendation on a proposed
credit to Mozambique in the amount of SDR 6.6 million (USs9.3 million
equivalent) for approval. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms,
with 40 years maturity, including 10 years grace, to assist with financing the
Maputo Corridor Revitalization (Technical Assistance) Project. SDR 1.1
million (US$1.5 million equivalent), representing financing for equipment
purchases, will be on-lent to Empresa Nacional de Portos E Caminhos de Ferro
de Mocambique, E.E. (CPM) at a fixed rate of 92 for a term of 15 years,
including a grace period of five yearp. CR1 will bear the foreign exchange
risk. The balance of SDR 5.5 million (US$7.8 million equivalent) of the
proposed credit will be passed on to CPM as equity., The project wili be
parallel financed by ODA (US$0.1 million) and USAID (US$0.6 million).
2.    Country/Sector Background. Mozambique has three transport corridors,
each consisting of integrated railways and port facilities and serving
primarily regional transit traffic. The corridors represent distinct
geographical segments with no physical linkages between them within
Mozambique. The Nacala Corridor System, comprising the port of Nacala and a
railway line to the Malawi border, is capable of serving Malawi's foreign
trade. Since 1984, traffic has virtually ceased due to the insecurity and the
dilapidated state of the line. The Beira Transport Corridor is comprised of
two railway lines linking the port of Beira to the railways system of Malawi
and the National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) system. The Maputo corridor is
eomprised of three railway lines and the port of Maputo, and serves transit
traffic from Swaziland, Zimbabwe and the north-eastern Transvaal region of the
Republic of South Africa. Prior to independence in 1975, income from transit
traffic on these corridors financed most of the large structural deficit in
the country's balance of trade. In 1973, this financing aounted to about
US$110 million equivalent. Since independence, transit traffic has declined
precipitously, from its pre-independence peak of 18.0 million tonnes in 1973
to about 1.6 million tonnes currently, as transport operations have been
disrupted by war and banditry, the massive exodus of tue managerial and
artisan class and changes in the structure of economic incentives and
msnage-ant.  Considerable investments in restoring the corridors" physical and
inst _.tional capacity, on the whole have not been effective in reversing this
oveLall decline in traffic on the corridors, although there have besn
significant gains in traffic on the Beira Corridor and encouraginghiigns of
improvement in its operating efficiency.  The sii, ^f    ^a cease-fire
agreevmet in mid-October 1992 marked the official end of a decade of civil war
and renewed vigor On the part of Government towards implementing its Economic
and Social Rehabilitation Program. As reconstruction of the economy
contlnues, the restoration of the capacity to generate foraign exchange from
transit traffic will be critical to the country's ability to maintain a
sustainable external balance and to accelerating its economic growth.



- 2 -
3.    Proiect Strategy. In formulating a strategy for X.   ving the
performance of the corridors, account has to be taken of & ar key factors.
First, due to the dependence of transit traffic demand on market conditions
and the performance and preferences of other transport operators and customers
outside of 1%ozambique, investments in the corridors ere subject to an extra-
ordinary degree of risk outside of the direct control of Mozambican
authorities and agencies. Second, the existing management of the corridors'
operating entities needs to be significantly strengthened and restructured to
manage the external business risks and opportunities to which it is exposed.
Such strengthening may take considerable tims and would be subject to
significant uncertainties as to its success. As vi tually pure transit
corridors without a sizeable domestic traffic base, potential customers are
compelled neither by economic circumstances nor by regulations to continue to
use the corridors' facilities whilst waiting for incremental improvements in
efficiency. Third, Mozambique will need to devote an increasing proportion of
available public resources to the resettlement of a large displaced population
and to the rehabilitation and development of the social sectors and basic
physical infrastructure. The corridor operating entities are the largest
state-owned enterprises ane are heavily loss-making. With the flow of
external assistance unlikel; to increase significantly from current levels,
much of the additional required resources will have to come from the
elimination of the losses of state-owned enterprises now subsidized by the
Government and limlting the recourse of such enterprises to public resources
to meet their investment requirements. Finally, the corridors have occupied
an important position in the economic and political history of Mozambique and
are viewed as a strategically important geo-politicsl asset in the region.  A
consequence of this history is the political concern about keeping the
ownership of the corridors' infrastructure and other long-lived assets in the
hands of the state in order to guard against their use in ways inconsistent
with perceived Mozambican national interests. Given these factors, the
Government and IDA have agreed that the strategy for the revitalization of the
corridors shoulds (a) seek to minimize the Government's financial exposure in
the corridors by shifting it to other parties more capable of managing such
risks; (b) eliminate as rapidly as possible the need for any form of subsidies
to the corridor entities; whilst (c) ensuring that any transfer of
responsibility for the management and operation of the corridor facilities
does not involve the corresponding legal transfer of title to ownership of
existing assets. In effect, privatization should be limited to that of
service provision on the corridors.
4.    In implementing this strategy, the Government intends to start with the
Maputo Corridor which commands a hinterland with the greatest traffic
potential, The Maputo Corridor System facilities are managed by Caminhos de
Ferro de Mocambique-Sul [CPM(S)). At the peak of its performance in 1973, the
corridor handled about 14 million tons of transit traffic, mostly mineral
products from Zimbabwe, RSA, and Swaziland. Transit traffic has now declined
to about I million tons as traffic has been diverted to other corridors due
tos C1) a fall in reliability and customer confidence in the system due to the
effects of the war; and (i) declining efficiency and performance of the
system. The decline of traffic on the system has left it with one important
competitive advantage, Haputo is the only port in Southern Africa that can
handle significant Incremental traffic without major capital expansion. It is



- 3 -
also the closest outlet for Swaziland and the Industrial and mining heartland
of RSA.
5.    In 1989, the Government moved towards coaercialization with the
conversion of C M from a department of the Ministry of Transport and
Coamamications to a state-owned enterprise with increased autonomy. Recently,
the National Assembley passed a law which laid the basis for the
transformation of state-owned enterprises into public enterprises with the
authority to enter into joint ventures with private concerns and/or grant
concessions of some operating assets to private parties. The enactment of
this law marks the beginning of a process vbich envisages Ci) the development
of a legal and regulatory framework that facilitates the involvement of the
private sector in the management and operations of parts of CPM; (ii) more
managerial autonomy, e.g. in the setting of tariffsl and (iii) the
establishment of a performance contract between CFM and Government that will
cover inter alia financial targets, investment selectiou criteria and
personnel policy.
6.    To support the achievement of Government's strategic objectives with
respect to CFM(S), the following approach has been agreed upon between
Government and IDA. First, the competitive features of the transit traffic
market, the performance potential of the system and the related operating and
business strategies that would need to be pursued to realize this potential
will be determined. Second, the appropriate mix and form of public and
private sector participation in the management and operation of different
activities on the system will be defined. This mix will take into account the
following factors: ti) the capacity of the existing CPM(S) management to
Implement the identified strategies and actions required to make the system
competitive; (ii) the possibility, costs and risks of enhancing such capacity
in the shortest period of time consistent with maintaining the competitiveness
of the system as compared to attracting private sector firms to manage and run
the system or parts of it; and (iii) the activities that for regulatory
reasons are best undertaken by a state-owAed enterprise. Based on the agreed
miL, appropriate investment packages will be formulated and promoted to
attract private sector firms into designated activities. Due to the large
number of possible activity areas Into which the system may be divided,
however, the possible combination of services whose provision may be
privatized under various arrangements and those that can remain under public
sector management is immense. Exploring the feasibility of all such possible
combinations would delay a final decision on the future direction of the
system and would be of little value, since ultimately, the key decision
varLable will be the capacity of the exlsting management to implement the
changes necessary to make the system competitive. Accordingly, during
appraisal, agreement was reached between the Government and IDA that the
choice of options to be evaluated should be constrained to no more than three
combinations of different activities. These would take account of the
expressed preferences of parties with Important stakes in the future of
CMH(S), including the management of CM. One such combination would involve
the leasing of all assets (except those for which public sector management can
be clearly demonstrated as essential on economic or regulatory grounds) for
defined periods and under apecified performance arrangements and payment terms
to an investor group or company. Such an investor group or company would then



- 4 -
decide the basis under which it would operate the constituent parts of the
system. A second arrangement would confine private participation to the
management nd operation of specialized termdnals at. the port and to the
maintenance and supply of services that would help to achieve greater levels
of availability of port and railway plant and equipment, with CM(S) managing
the rest of the system and assuming the responsibility for achieving an
adequate degree of financial performance.   The third combination would
inolve the awarding of operating concessions for selected activities to the
private sector by subsidiaries of a newly created transport corridor
conglomerate corporation. The subsidiaries would be derived from the formal
incorporation of CPM's regional operating divisions.
7.   Whilst the detailed investigation of the prospects of the system and ax
assessment of the appropriate form of private sector involvement is ongoing,
existing donor-supported programs to strengthen the performAnce of the system
would continue. Also, Government wishes to maintain investor interest, while
at the same time ensuring that in any negotiated transaction its financial
interest vould be protected (and its risk exposure eliminated) as more
information on the system's worth becomes available and the arrangements under
which the best returns may be achieved appear more evident. A number of
Investment proposals are currently under discussion and the Government would
like to ensure that CPM has access to good financial advice in negotiations
with those private investors concerned. This parallel process which would
seek to address the imbaAance in knowledge is not inconsistent with the
approach being taken in chis project, as any transaction negotiated in the
period preceding the decision on the organizational option to be employed in
the restructuring of the CPF(S) system could be folded into the final selected
scheme later.
8.    Proiect Ob ectives. The overall project objective is to assist the
Government to restructure CFM(S) in order to improve its long term efficiency.
To achieve this objective, the project aims tot (i) facilitate Government's
divestiture of direct involvement in ths management and operation of those
transport facilities in the corridor where there is no demonstrable
competitive or regulatory advantage to such participation, and to assist it to
do so on the most comercially advantageous terms; and (ii) assist Government
in ensuring that the substantial proportion of the vorkforce that is likely to
be redundant as a consequence of this restructuring is adequately cushioned
against the impact of the loss of employment. A subsidiary and related
objective of the project is to enhance confidence in the capacity of the
system by financing equipment to relieve bottlenecks in container terminal
operations and to strengthen communications with neighboring systems. These
investments would have an immediate impact on the efficiency of operations in
two key areas of activity in the system.
9.    Prolect Description. The project will include the following components
which will form the basis for deciding on the scope of private sector
participation in the provision of services on the CPM(S) systems ti)
Investment and Financial Advisory Services (US$7.5 million; 71Y of total
project costs). This component will involve the detailed evaluation of the
past performance, resources, and the scope for improvements in operating
efficiency of the system. It will also provide support to Government in



- 5 -
promoting Investment schemes to potential Investors and in negotiating
transactions with Interested parties, (ii) Legal Advisory Services (US$0.8
million, 82 of total project costs). This component will assist Government to
review, streamline and update the existing legal and regulatory frameworks
with a view to facilitating the privatization of service provision on t'ue
system. Also, it will assist Goverament in preparing and negotiating the
transactions derived from the selected mode of privatization of servlce
provision; (iii) Environmental Analytical Services (US$O.l million; 12 of
total project costs). This component, which will be parallel-financed by ODA.
is to be carried out in coordination with the preparation of the National
Environmental Action Plan. It will involve the review of existing standards
of occupational health and safety and pollution abatement, an examination of
liability issues surrounding the enviroamental management of the system, the
recommendation of environmental standards, and an assessment of the investment
requiremeats to comply with those standardss (iv) Labor Redeployment Strategy
(US$0.6 million; 62 of total project costs). This component (to be parallel-
financed by USAID) will involve the preparation of a detailed plan for the
redeployment of surplus staff from all three corridor systems. (v) Eauim_nt
(US$1.5 million; 142 of total project costs). This component will finance
handling equipment for the container terminal as well as communications
equipment for operations control. The technical assistance to be provided
under the project is primarily aimed at institutional development, :lthough a
portion of the legal advisory services vould facilitate policy reform.
10. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$10.5 million, with a
foreign exchange component of about US$9.3 million (892). A breakdown of
costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. To facilitate
disbursements, a Special Account will be established with an initial deposit
of US$0.4 million. Although, project implementation should take no longer
than three years, given past disbursement delays, established implementation
experience for investment projects in Mozambique has been taken into account
in finalizing project costs and the disbursement profile. Amounts and methods
of procurement and the disbursement schedule of the proposed IDA credit are
shown in Schedule B. A tlmetable of key processing events is shown in
Schedule C. The status of Bank Group operations in Mozambique is presented in
Schedule D. Three maps (IBRD Nos. 21355, 23715 and 23716) are also attached.
11.   Proiect Implementation. The project is to be implemented by an inter-
agency committee appointed by and accountable to the Council of Ministers, and
whose composition and mandate are mutually acceptable to Government and to
IDA. This body will operate full-time under the auspices of the Minister of
Transport and Communications and will be responsible for monitoring all phases
of the project. Headed by a representative of the Minister of Transport and
Communications, it would consist of representatives from the Ministries of
Finance and Commerce, the National Planning Commission, the Bank of Mozambique
and the Ministry of Justice. A final decision on a global strategy for
CFM(S), under which the scope of restructuring of service provision (including
definition of the extent of private sector participation) on the system would
be defined, would be made by Government within two months of the end of the
investigative phase of the project. The timing of this decision would mark
the end of the first phase of the project and the start of the approved
privatization transactions phase during which Government would seek to attract
private investors and operators Into the system.



- 6 -
12.   Project Sustainability. Mozambique is committed to a program of reducing
state participation in commercial activities. The knowledge of larse-scale
enterprise restructuring and options for privatization gained under the
project and any reforms in the legal or business framework instituted in
support of the selected scheme would be of relevance to the restructuring of
other large enterprises in the public sector. The benefits of the equipment
component of the project would only be sustainable if the basis of operations
in the system is changed to move way from operating the railways as a closed
circuit with limited operational and marketing co-operation vith neighboring
systems and if the management of the container terminal is strengthened. Both
these conditions would be fulfilled if the findings and recommendations of the
strategy study component of the project are mplemented.
13. Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement. There are two generic areas
of past Bank Group exper' nce of relevance to this projects (i) the experience
with consulting or advisory services and (ii) the experience with support of
privatization programs. The major lcetson from experience on consulting and
advisory services is that the success of implementation of the recommendations
of such setvices is enhanced if the project objectives are consistent with
Governmen policies and concerns and the scope of services is prepared in
detail with significant participation by the Governaent and the key agencies
likely to be affected. Project strategy has been formulated keeping in mind
this lesson. On privatization, the program supported by IDA in Mozambique has
been relatively successful. Its success has been due to substantial support
from the Bank Group in assisting the Government in designing institutional
arrangements that have ensured transparency and coherence in the operation of
the program. However, until now, the objective of this program has been to
divest Government of responsibility for relatively small businesses without
the same degree of economic or political significance as the corridors in the
country. More relevant to the project is regional experience in large scale
privatisation of the provision of infrastructural services. This experience
is limited. However, the few operations effected to date with Bank Group
support have been relatively successful. This success has been due to a
consensus on the need for change in the form of management of state-owned
assets, and well structured proposals and implementation processes for
effecting such change with all the elements of the process being conducted
with a high degree of transparency.
14. Rationale for Bank/IDA Involvement. The project is consistent with the
Bank Group's strategy for assistance to Mozambique which emphasizes support in
the planning and implementation of long-term economic rehabilitation and
reconstruction. The central feature of IDA's strategy of assistance to the
transport sector is to support the strengthening of the domestic capacity to
provide reliable and efficient services which are essential to the revival of
the country's economy, particularly the agricultural sector. The project
would complement this strategy by creating the conditions under which
subsidized public support (domestic and external) of the corridors would
gradually cease according to an agreed timetable, allowing the transfer of
such resources to domestic programs of high economic priority. IDA's role in
the project has been to assist the Government in formulating a strategy to
Improve the performance of CFM(S). The Government has requested the Bank to
continue assisting with such work and to coordinate all donor assistance to



CPM(S) within the framework of the strategy selected to revltalize the system.
The donors have also requested Bank leadership in developing and implementing
a strategic framework -through which thou, assistance to the sector would be
funnelled.
15.   "reed Actions. The following future actions vere agreed during
negotiations: (a) on-lending arrangements: all project financing for advisory
and consulting services will be passed oan to CPM as equity, and all project
financing for equipment be on-lent at a fixed interest rate of 92 for a term
of 15 years, including a grace period of five yearse (b) investment plan
review: for every year startit% in 1993: (i) a draft multi-year investment
plan for the CPM(S) system will be submitted to IDA by September 15; (ii) a
joint GOKIDonor/IDA review of the draft plan will be held by October 15; (Iii)
a final version of the plan based on the review will be submitted to IDA by
November 1 and (iv) a progress report detailing measures taken to implement
the plan will be submitted to IDA by April 15; and (c) mid-term review: a
review will be carried out no later than ten months after effectiveness, to
monitor project progress and to define future actions to be taken; agreed
recoamendations from the review would be promptly carried outs and no later
thun one month prior to the afore-mentioned review Governmeat would submit a
progress report detailing any privatization transaction made to date, as well
as the findings and recommendations resulting from completion of the
investigative analytical component, and specifying the bases for Government's
decision on a global strategy for the restructuring of CNN(S). It was also
agreed that credit effectiveness would be conditioned on: (i) the execution of
both a Subsidiary Loan Agreement and an Administration Agreement for the
Credit between Government and CPM; and (i1) the submission of the audit
reports issued by independent auditors on the financial performance of CPM for
the 1989, 1990 and 1991 fiscal years. Agreement was also reached on the
following conditions of disbursement: (i) disbursements will be made against
the transaction-related services only after a decision satisfactory to IDA on
a global strategy for the restructuring of CPN(S) has been made by Government;
and (ii) disbursements for equipment will be made only after IDA has received
from CFM a satisfactory report containing the economic and financial
justifications for prioritized equipment items to be financed under the
project.
16. Environmental Aspects. As part of the technical studies being
undertaken, the project would seek to address five key inter-related issues:
first, the standards of environmental protection and occupational health and
safety that should govern the various activities on the ports and railways,
particularly in the context of the enhanced prospects for a significant
increase in traffic and activity; second, the gaps in the sub-systems'
caps:ity to meet such standards due to inadequate physical facilities,
planning procedures, operating procedures and practices and compliance with
existing and inappropriate standards; third, the nature of the adverse
consequences resulting from past lack of compliance with adequate
environmental standards and the cost of redressing these consequences;
fourth, the nature and likely cost of necessary improvements to physical
assets, working procedures and practices to ensure future compliance with
adequate standards; and fifth, the appropriate distribution of rectification
costs and the costs of upgrading facilities and procedures between Government,



a a e
CNM and any future third party managers of service provision on the system.
The findings and recomendations of this analysis would be Inputs Into the
National Environmental Action Plan currently under preparation by the
Government in which the issues of regulation of environmentally-sensitive
activities and occupational health and safety as well as the national capacity
for monitoring compliance vith regulatory standards are to be thoroughly
examined and detailed.
17. Proiect Benefits. The project will assist Government In bringing about
necessary Increases in efficiency in the operations and management of CPM(S).
With this In place, the losses of CPM(S) would be steamed, its recourse to the
national treasury for financial support set aside and the assets and
operations now under its control could begin to make a financial contr'bution
to the Government's budget. In addition, the effective operation of the
NMepto Corridor would provide considerable benefits to other countries in the
region. It would: ti) reduce transport coatz for the international traffic of
Zimbabwe, Swasiland and the north-eastern Transvaal region of RSA; and (ii)
obviate the need for capital expenditures in RSA to expand port capacity to
handle growing traffic originating from the countries of the region.
18.   Prolect Risks. Two types of risks could undermilne the effective
implementation of the projects political and investment. Political Risks. The
corridor facilities are considered patrimonial assets in Mozambique and are
significant employers of labor, much of which would be redundant under
efficient operations. There could be, as a consequence, some political
opposition to the deep restructuring of these facilities. This raises the risk
that efforts to encourage private sector participation could be derailed.
overcoming this risk requires building a strong consensus behind the need for
change and adequately cushioning likely losers in the process of change,
against the adverse impact of the inevitable substantial loss of employment.
The major component of the project has been structured to facilitate this
process. In addition, the options have been constrained to those based on the
transfer of the use of these assets through renewable contractual
arrangements. The Muman Resources and Institutional Development Project
(BRID), a parallel project financed by USAID and managed by the Bank
(currently under implementation), is providing appropriate institutional
development assistance to CNM officials. BID will assist CFM to develop a
strategic plan which will serve to address inter alia the lack of familiarity
in Mozambique with the development of corporate competitive strategies as well
as the range of corporate vehicles for private sector participation in an
industry. Finally, considerable emphasis has been placed in the project On
mitigating the adverse effect of labor redundancies. In particular, USAID
will not only fund the analytical work necessary to support an orderly
retrenchment and redeployment of the workforce assessed as redundant but also
will earmark sufficient funds to support its implementation. Investment
Risks. The corridor has been subject to intermittent attacks which have
disrupted operations on its railway lines and represented a constant source of
insecurity on the system. Vlthout devaluing the importance of the insecurity,
it is possible that the drop in traffic may be due (in addition) to the
decline in the efficiency of the system and the inadequacy of security
arrangements at the port which in principle is subject to managerial control.
To the extent that unpredictable interruptions to the operation of the system



- 9 -
occur, this vould affeot both the cost of transport, and the capacity and
revenue generation potential of the system. In turn, this would affect the
Investment attraction potential of the system. At Present, the Government is
reviewing the measures it can take to strengthen security along the railway
lines and has coumissioned a number of studies with assistance from external
sources to this end. This in combination with the recent signing of the Peace
Agreement should serve to reduce this risk. The investment advisory firm
ould provide advice based on its knowledge of the concern of prospective
investors on the extent and form of measures and assurances the Government
should offer potential Investors. Another risk is that there may not be a
sufficient number of interested private sector Investors because the system's
returns may not be sufficiently attractive to compensate for its business
risks or that there may not be a sufficient number of corporations or
investors willing or able to diversify geographically. Overcoming this
problem requires structuring and promoting Investment proposals creatively to
attract existing participants in the industry or to create vehicles,
independent of the Government, through which appropriate management expertise
tan be tapped without an unduly large initial investment exposure on the part
of the external investors. To minimize this risk, the investment advisory
firm to be selected under the project would be required to demonstrate the
capscity and experience to create appropriate vehicles to attract foreign
investment in conditions where the underlying investment objective is
financially viable but considered of high risk.
19.  Recommendation. I an satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recomuend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D. C.
December 28, 1992
Attachments



- 10 -
Schedule A
MOZAMBIQtUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
A.    Estimated Costs
Local       Foreign        Total
(US$ million)
Investment and
Financial Advisory Services   0.7           5.0            5.7
Legal Advisory Services              0.1           0.6           0.7
Environmental Analysis               0.0           0.1           0.1
Labor Redeployment Strategy          0.2           0.4           0.6
Port Handling & Communications
Equipment    0.0           1.2           1.2
Total Base Costs         1.0          7.3            8.3
Physical Contingencies               0.1           0.7           0.8
Price Contingencies                  0.1           1.3           1.4
TOTAL COST                     L1aBLAl
Finsncing Plan:
Government                           0.5           0.0           0.5
IDA                                  0.5           8.8           9.3
ODA                                  0.0           0.1           0.1
USAID                                0.2           0.4           0.6
Total                             LI La aQ



- 11 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
Procurement Methods and Disbursements
A. Procurement'
(US$ miilUon)
Procurement Method'l                   Total
Project Elements               ICB         LIS         Other               Cost
Consulting & Advisory Services                          9.0                9.0
(7.8)             (7.8)
Equipment                      1.2                      0.3                1.5
(1.2)                    (0.3)              (1.5)
Total                 1.2                       9.3               10.5
(1.2)                    (8.1)              (9.3)
/ Procuremot of Conmsltin Services ,II follow the lank Guidellnew for the Use of Consultants.
/ IDA contlbutlon shon in parenthesis.



- 12 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
MD7^AMIQUX
MAPUTO COIRDOR REVITALIZATION CIECMNICAL ASSISTANC) PROJECT
S. Disbursements
Amout of Credit             Percent of Expenditures
CateRory                                 (USS million)                     to be financed
Investigative & Analytical Services           4.6                 952 of total expenditures
Financial Advisory Services                   0.3                 951 of total expenditures
Investment Advisory & Promotion Services      1.5                 952 of total expenditures
Legal Advisory Services                       0.7                 951 of total expenditures
Equipment                                     1.4                OOS of total expenditures
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)            0.3                100l
Unallocated                                   0.5
Total Credit Amount
Estimated IDA Disbursements (USS million)
IDA Fiscal Years
93       94       95       96      97        98      99
Annual                          O."    0.1       0.3       0.3     1.6      6.4     0.1
Cumulative                       0.5     0.6      0.9      1.2     2.8       9.2     9.3
*/ lucludis USS0.4 atiIto tnXitil depwt into  tie Speelal ALoot.



- 13 -
Schedule C
MAPUTO CORRIDOR PVITAMIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
Timetable of Key Credit ProcessuN^ Events
Time taken to prepares                          six months.
Prepared by:                                    The Government of Mozambique with IDA
assistance.
First IDA Missions                              SeptemberlOctober 1991.
Appraisal Mission Departures                    March 1. 1992.
Date of Negotiations*                           November 16, 1992
Planned DAte of Effectivenesss                  may 1993



- 14 -
Schedule D
Page I of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
KAPYTTO CORRIDOR RVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mozambigue
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(as at November 16. 1992)
Amount         Amount
Fiscal                                                    of Credit       Undibured       Closing
Credit No.    Year   Title                                          -USS mtillon)   (ESS million)        Date
1806-      0   67    Energy Technical Assistance & RehabilIltation         20.00            0.24      12/81/92
1907-OZ       _08    Education and Manpower Developmnt                     16.90            7.42      12/81/9S
080wIMOr        s8    Second RehabilitatIon                                 16.6C           0.17      06/80/91,
19494OZ       89    Urban Rehab IItation                                  60.00           26.29      12/81/9S
96WMOz         99    Health A Nutrition                                    27.00           24.90      12/31/94
2021-MO        99    ThIrd ReablItation                                   90.00             2.72     04/80/92
2038-VOl       s9    Urban Household Energy                                22.00           17.90      12/81/906
2086-MWZ       90      . ira Transport Corridor                            40.00           27.89      06/30/96
2066-4OZ       90    Economic & Financial Manaogent                        21.00            19.56     12/81/97
2061-4OZ       90    Industrial Enterprie  Restructuring                   50.10           52.20      12/81/97
2082-UOZ       90    S"1ll- & Medium-Scole Enterprie Dev-lopm_t            32.00           81.18      12/81/96
217S-4OZ        n     Agricultural Rehabiitation A Development            1S.40           14.42      06/80/99
2200-MOZ       91    Second Education                                      83.70           52.17      04/80/97
2337-Mol       92    Agricultural Service  Rehabilitatton                  85.00           86.51
2874-MOZ       92    First Ro d   Coastal ShippIng                         74.J0           69.67      08/t0/98
2384-MIO       92    EconomIc Reovery Credit                              160.00          145.76      06/80/96
Total- (16 Credits)                                                       755.00          684.25
£2 Credits closed)                                                        114.55
Tots Iw 669.S5
of which repaid
Totl he ld by IDA                                                         069.5S
Amount sold
of which repaid
Total Undlesbured
0      Indicate. SAL/SECAL Credits
Active Credits
Total Approved, Repayments and Outstanding Blanc  repreent both active and tncttiv  Credits.
R      Indlates tormally revised Closing Date
Mosambique's portfolio of IDA-supported project  Is relatively youn with most projects being les than three
yers old. All IDA-supported projoets ore manaed financially by the Central  Bnk, Banco do Moambiqu  (8dM).
Previously, understaffing and the erosion ot advinistrati  proedure. over the long period of the civil war
contributed to 8dM being the min bottleneck t   oot dursment. Ste   have nmo ben taken to decentralile
the financial managemnt of projcec  te the impl_menting agncls through discusslons with sdo and through te
conditionallty seployed under the Economic Recovery Credit. IDA ls continuing Its efforts to build up
administrative capacity and to put tn place workable systems that fal I itate project Implementation. To this
nd, specifc ae0tions taken lncludet (I) the stationing of a enior Bank staff member In the fl-d to help
acoslerate/faclitats Implementation; (ii) the continued revisw of implementation tissue via regular Country
Implementation Reviews (CIRs); (ItI) training for local staff In a number of beasc lmplem_ntation aree and;
(tv) tho judicious use of suspension of disbursemnte whore evidne of non-complianc  Is obvious.



- 15 -
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVTALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
B.  Statement of IPC Investments
(as of October 31, 1992)
Investment   Fiscal                  Type of                          Loan    Equity   Total
Number       Year    Obligor         Business                               USS million
864-MOZ      1987    LOMACO          Agri-business                     2.5               2.5
978-KOZ      1988    Xai Xai Oil    Chemical/Petrochemical                       7.8     7.8
Total Gross Commitments                                   2.5      7.8    10.3
LeQss  Cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustments, repayments,
write-offs and sales                                1.5      7.8     9.3
Total Commitments held by IFC                             1.0      0.0     1.0
Total Undisbursed                                         0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Disbursed                                           1.0      0.0      1.0



- 16 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO TEE ND(ORANDUI AND RECONMENDATON OT HEE
PRESIDENT FOR A MAPUTO COURIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
Section At Detailed Project Description
I.    The Transport Corridors
1.    Mosambique has three transport corridors each consisting of lntegrated
railvays and port facilities and serving primarily regional transit traffic.
The corridors represent distinct geographical segments with no direct physical
linkages between them inside Noxambique. The Nacala Corridor System,
comprising the port of Nacala and, amongst others, a railway line to the
Malawi border, is capable of serving Malawi's foreign trade. However, since
1984 traffic has virtually ceased due to the security situation and the
dilapidated state of the infrastructure. Since then, the port has been
extensively rehabilitated and a program of track upgrading is underway.
Malawi's trade pattern and the transit corridors available to it have changed
significantly since the closure of the Nacala corridor. In particular, more
of its imports are now sourced from within the region, requiring a different
pattern of transport routes; and a new transit route with dedicated fuel goods
terminal facilities and use of the Port of Dar es Salaam has been developed,
allowing it to diversify its transit routes. These changes could have
significant competitive implications for the Nacala Corridor.
2.    The Beira Transport Corridor consists of a 331 km railway line (the Sena
link) linking the port of Beira to the railvay system of Malawi and a 317 km
railway line (Machipanda line) linking the port of Beira to the National
Railways of Zimbabwe (YHZ) system. The Sena line has been non-operational
since 1984 due to the security situation. Since 1982, the port of Beira and
the railway line to Zimbabwe have undergone significant rehabilitation to
improve both their physical condition and operational efficiency. To date,
about US$500 million have been committed or spent on this program of physical
rehabilitation and on a parallel program of technical assistance and training
to strengthen management systems and technical and managerial skills. Transit
traffic throughput on the system has recovered significantly since 1982,
increasing from 0.3 million tons to 0.6 million tons currently.
3.    The Maputo Corridor system comprises three railway lines and the port of
Maputo, and mainly serves traffic from Swaziland, Zimbabwe and the north-
eastern Transvaal region of the Republic of South Africa (IRSA). The Ressano
Garcia railway line, 88 km long, links Maputo with RSA. The Goba line links
the port of Maputo with Swaziland and is 68 km long within Mozambique. The
third railway line on the system is the 534 km Limpopo line which links Maputo
with the NRZ system in Zimbabwe.
This Memorandum and Recoendation of the Preident (MrP) was prepared on the basis of an
appraisal mission that visited Mosmbiqu in abch, b Im. The misslo consisted of Msssre.
Yusupha Crookes (Mision loader/Sr. Financial Anslys), Sujoer Nbyck (Sr. Rallway Engineor),
R. Gopslkriohnan (Procuremt Specialist), larlque Saravit (Legal Consultant) and
ls. Na Del Nikol (Consultant). Ih report wm  reviewo by Me. Phyllis PomranSa (Division
Chibf, AFOUl). Th Director of the Oepartnt Is Mr. Steon DOwn ng.



- 17 _
The port of Maputo comprises the main port of Maputo and the subsidiary port
of Matola located 4 km upstream.The port of Matola is dedicated to handling
bulk ore, coal and petroleum products traffic. The resources and recent
performance of the Maputo Corridor system and strategic issues confronting it
are outlined in Section II below.  Ma8 IBRD No. 23716 shows the location of
the corridors in the context of the regional transport network.
4.   The transport corridors have played and continue to play an important
role in the economy of Mozambique. During much of the pre-independence
period, net foreign currency generated from transit traffic typically
represented about 802 of the country's balance of trade deficit. At the peak
of their operating performance in 1973, net foreign currency genersted from
transit traffic by the corridors amounted to about US$110 million equivalent.
However, since independence, a number of problems have plagued the system
resulting In a significant decline in traffic. First. the rise in insurgency
activities led to frequent disruptions in railway operations. Second, the
attainment of independence led to the exodus of virtually all the skilled
management and semi-skilled staff of the system. A new cadre of managers and
skilled workers with no prior background in ports and railways operations had
to be recruited and trained to manage and operate this relatively large and
sophisticated system. Third, the competing transport networks in the region
changed in significant ways, e.g. the development of Richards Bay port and the
extension and upgrading of the railways from the Transvaal region of RSA to
cater to coal exports; and some countries, formerly reliant on Mozambique,
have developed alternative international trade routes or have been induced to
change the pattern of their international trade. Net foreign currency
earnings from transit traffic (excluding the cost of technical assistance
necessary to support the system's operational efficiency) now amount to about
US$25 million, vlrtually all of which is generated by Zimbabwe traffic on the
Beira corridor.
S.    As part of its attempt to reverse the decliue in the corridor's
performance, Government in 1989, established the commercially autonomous
parastatal, Impresa Nacional de Porto * Caminhos de Ferro de Mozambique E.E.
(CPM), to manage the system's facilities. CPM is currently organized as a
public enterprise with regional operating divisions responsible for the day-
to-day management of each of the three corridor systems. The objective of the
Government is that C-M be financially viable by 1995. To achieve a meaningful
return on the total capital employed In it (including the cost Incurred to
date in rehabilitating the corridor systems). CPM is likely to need
significant restructuring in all areas of its operations. The Government
enwisages the proposed project as the start of this process.
II. The Maputo Corridor System
(i). The Port of Maputo
6.    The port of Maputo is situated in the Maputo Bay which is formed by the
confluence of the Matola, Maputo, Incomati, Tembe and Umbeluxi rivers. The
port is in a natural harbor, and the beginnigs of the development of the
current facilities date back to the turn of this century. The main port of
Maputo comprises 20 berths with a total quay length of 3300 meters. The



- 18 -
layout of the port is shown in Map IBRD No. 21355. Berths 1, 2 and 3 are
dedicated to cabotage operations and have recently been developed with
Norwegian assistance as a separate cargo and passenger terminal and leased to
NAVIQUE, the national shipping parastatal. Berths 4-8 are general cargo
berths with supporting covered and open storage space. The rest of the port
consists of specialized terminals. The coal terminal has a theoretical annual
handling capacity of about 2 million tons based on the loading rate of the
ship loader, and a dumping area for coal stacking with a capacity of 120,000
tons. CFM seeks to transfer all coal traffic to Natola. The container
terminal, vith a berth length of 300 m and a container parking area, can
handle ships of up to 1500 TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent container units)
capacity. The terminal is served by two ship-to-shore gantry cranes. The
other specialized terminals are a steel terminal with an adjacent dumping area
of 4 ha; a citrus terminal with a pre-cooling storage capacity of 7500 m ; and
a sugar terminal with storage capacity of 140,000 tons in three storage sheds.
The facilities at Matola consist of a bulk ore terminal with a train unloading
capacity of about 5.0 mtpa and ship loading capacity of about 2.0 tpa, both
developed in the early 19609 to serve iron ore exports from Swaziland and
rehabilitated in the mid-19809 to handle coal exports from RSA; and an oil
jetty with storage capacity of 200,000 tons. The depth of the access channel
to the ports varies from 9.4 m to 10.1 m. Maintenance dredging was deferred
from independence until recently, leading to considerable siltation in the
entrance channel. A recently completed program of dredging has restored the
main entrance channel to its design depth of 9.4 m and depth alongside berths
to their design levels of between 8 m and 12 m. With a tide movement of
2.5 a, ships with drafts of up to 11 m can be accommodated. However, for all
practical purposes, vessel sizes are largely limited to 35,000 dwt. Cargo
handling equipment at the main port of Maputo includes 61 electric quay
cranes, 145 fork lift trucks, 13 heavy duty fork lift trucks of capacity of
between 20 and 23 tons, 11 front-end loaders, 20 mobile cranes, 25 tractor
units and 23 trailers.
7.    Overall, the throughput capacity of the port based on the designed
loading rates of fixed quay installations, 24 hours operation, reasonable
rates of discharge from multi-purpose vessels and average berth occupancy of
45Z is about 3.6 m tons of general cargo, 0.7 million tons of containerized
cargo, 4 million a8 of petroleum products and 4 million tons of bulk ore and
mineral traffic. However, achievable capacity is constrained by a number of
key inter-related factors. First, the mechanical availability of cargo
handling equipment is poor, averaging about 412 in 1991. Second, the
productivity of work gangs and available equipment is low. Finally, the
clearance rates of both containerized and break-bulk traffic from the port are
low and congestion high due to long cargo dwell timee arising from the low
ship service times, delays in clearance of goods from customs and from the
port area. Although the available data on dwell times is not adequately
segregated into transit and domestic traffic, container dwell times averaged
about 50 days per TEU in 1991 and dwell times in the stuffing and unstuffing
shed averaged 50 days.



-19 -
(ii . The CFa(S) Railways System
8.    The track on the CFM(S) railways system is laid to the standard Southern
Africa regional gauge of 1067 mm and is an integral part of the interconnected
regional railways network. The railways are single line except for the 10 km
section between Maputo and Machava - the junction of the Resssno Garcia and
Goba lines - which is double track. The railway lines are laid with
continuously welded rail of 54 kgJm or 45 kg/m weight on concrete sleepers
except on the Goba line where the track is a combination of 30 kglm, 40 kglm
and 45 kg/m rail laid on wooden sleepers. Curves throughout the system are
not sharp being generally in excess of 300 m radius. The steepest grade on
the system is 1.6Z between the 34 and 57 km points on the Ressano Garcia line.
However, this is not the currently dominant traffic direction, along which
gradients across the system are generally light. Permissible axle loads on the
system are uniformly of 18 tons except on the Gob& line where one section is
limited to axle loads of 16 tons. Passing loop lengths are sufficient to
accommodate train lengths of 50 wagons and permissible trailing loads are 1600
gross tons, 1800 gross tons and 2000 gross tons respectively in dominant
traffic directions on the Goba, Ressano Garcia and Limpo.o lines. Train
working on the system is mainly by telephone proceed orders and communications
is by a magneto telephone system and radio links. The system line capacity
based on the current block sections and assuming 24 hours working is 11 trains
per day on both the Goba and Ressano Garcia lines and 8 trains per day on the
Limpopo line. The Ressano Garcia and Goba lines are currently restricted to
daylight working which reduces the practical line capacity to 6 trains per day
an each line.
9. In terms of operational assets, the CFM(S) system had a complement of 33
diesel electric mainline locomotives until September 1992 when 11 additional
units were delivered. The mainline fleet now consists of two classes of
locomotives of different makes, power and vintage: a fleet of 32 General
Electric (GE) locomotives of 2150 horsepowers and 11 years old and a fleet of
12 new Alsthom locomotives of 2515 horsepower. The current fleet of shunting
locomotives consists of 14 diesel hydraulic locomotives of 1250 Lhrsepowers of
Rumanian origin. Of this fleet, 13 are currently out of service. The wagon
fleet consists of 3702 revenue traffic units of which 2755 are general purpose
high-sided, drop-sided or freight cars. The average age of the fleet is 31
years.
10.   The performance of the railways system has been poor.  The availability
of the serviceable fleet of mainline locemotives has been unsatisfactory,
averaging only 602 in 1991. Locomotive utilization is extremely low at an
average of less than 100 km per day, in part constrained by predominantly
daylight operations. However, there is little prospect of improving much on
this performance even if the system returns to full day working principally
because of the likely low weighted average haul distances on the system with
the existing confinement of motive power to the CPG(S) system, and the
expanded site of the fleet. The availability of the fleet of wagons is low
with 31S currently out of service due to braking systems problems arising from
mechanical defects and thefts of ball valves. The proportion of wagons
overdue for general service is believed to be high. Although operating
statistics are not readily available, the assessed utilization of the wagon



- 20 -
fleet is extremely low for three main reasonst (i) traffic on the circuit is
low relative to the size of the wagon fleets (ii) traffic origination at
Maputo is currently extremely small; and (iWi) CFK(S) wagons are not currently
permitted on the RSA system because of safety concerns, and traffic from
Zimbabwe is predominantly carried on NRZ wagons. Finally, the condition of
the track, except the recently rehabilitated sections of the Limpopo line, is
poor reflecting the absence of adequate maintenance over a prolonged period.
(iWi). The Ports/Railways Interface
11.   Interface operations between the ports and railways subsystems are
plagued by the problems of both subsystems. The port is the focus of
marshalling operations on the system. However, the efficiency of such
operations is constrained by, inter alia, lines congested with defective
wagons, inadequate motive power and delays caused by low rates of service at
the berths and the poor sequencing of shunting and stevedoring operations.
(iv). Stafflg
12.   The total number of employees on the CFM(S) system was estimated at
13,078 at the end of February, 1992; staff strength has fluctuated
considerably over the past decade reaching a peak of about 17,000 in 1982 and
1983. Much of this fluctuation reflects the high proportion of port workers
employed as casuals, the operation of temporary track maintenance gangs, the
absence of meaningful controls over the productivity of the workforce and its
complement, and the functional inflexibility in the organization and workforce
which inhibits the extent to which fluctuations can be smoothed by the
internal redeployment of staff. An adequate personnel information system
needs to be developed. In addition, a recent study, financed by IDA under the
ongoing Beira Corridor Project', indicates a seriously imbalanced staff
profile: well over 602 of permanent staff across all functions have very basic
or no schooling and have had no significant upgrading of their skills while in
the system; and substantially more than 502 of the staff are over 40 years
old. By any performance criteria, the system is seriously overstaffed with
productivity on the railways at less than 48,000 atkm per employee and on the
port at about 400 port tons per vorker. As a comparative benchmark, the
railways system in Tanzania which is considered at least 40S overstaffed by
its management has a productivity of 80,000 ntkm.
(v). Financial Performance of the System
13.   Preliminary accounts for CR1 for 1988 and 1989 show CFM(S) as incurring
net losses of MT 0.5 billion (US$ 0.25 million equivalent) in 1988 and earning
a net income of MT 1.5 bn (US$0.8 bn equivalent) in 1989. These figures are
based on adjusted cash-based accounts. CFK(S) financial accounts are not a
reliable basis for assessing the financial position of the system. First, the
fixed assets register is acknowledged to be incomplete. Second, the division
of long-term liabilities consequent to the divisionalization of the system in
1989 has not been determined and debts contracted with capital expenditures on
I Credit 2065-MOZ, US$40 million, 1990.



- 21 -
the system since then are uncertain. Thlr working capital accounts are
subject to considerable doubts as to their accuracy. Fourth, ezpenditure
accounting is weak with incomplete and uncertain records of material usage
particularly in the workshops where the responsibility for the procurement of
materials is fragmented between CFM(S) management and donor agencies; and
there is an absence of any reflection of the cost of expatriate staff.
Finally, accounting policies have not been clearly formulated leaving methods
and forms of disclosure as a matter largely of discretion. With appropriate
adjustments to the valuation of asset accounts and fuller accounting for long-
term liabilities and expenditures, the disclosed net incomes for 1988 and 1989
are likely to translate into substantial losses on an accrual basis. An audit
of the opening balance sheet of CP1 and its operating divisions and a review
of its internal control system and accounting policles have recently been
completed under French funding. Given the weaknesses In expenditure
acco'mnting, a meaningful budgetary system remains a key management objective.
(vi). The Competitive Prospects for the CFM(S) System
14.   Despite the prolonged period of deteriorating performance, CFI(S) enjoys
a number of significant potential competitive advantages which, if properly
exploited could provide the basis for the recovery in its performance. First,
the distance of the port from major centers of economic activity in RSA and
Swaziland is shorter than for other competing routes whilst, for Zimbabwe, it
offers the closest outlet with dedicated facilities for the handling of
minerals and metals which comprise a major part of that country's exports.
Second, it has substantial excess physical capacity on both the port and the
railways systems. The capacity of all of the systems in competition with it
are constrained in their ability to handle large incremental volumes of
traffic, particularly of bulk commodities, by the capacity of their ports.
Increases in the capacity of these systems would require significant changes
in technology or large infrastructural and equipment investments or both.
Third, the current relative inefficiency of the system grants it the potential
to generate large one-off improvements in its cost structure which can be
partly passed on in its pricing structure. These advantages can now be
exploited given improved prospects for peace following the signing of the
Peace Accord in October 1992. However, this recovery potential is constrained
from being achieved by a number of factors, amongst which the most important
aret (a) the deterioration of equipment and infrastructure which would require
substantial Investments to upgrade; (b) the imbalance of equipment and
infrastructural capacities across an operationally integrated network which
creates bottlenecks that will require investments to relieve; (c) the need to
strengthen the capacity and incentives for the management on the system to
achieve, monitor, control and sustain an adequate level of operating
efficiency on all parts of the system; (d) the current political apprehension
and the lack of specific managerial experience and expertise to enter into
operating agreements with contiauous railways to improve the operating
utilization of railways assets which under prevailing conditions constrain the
system to having a higher than necessary capital cost structure; and (e)
insufficient information on the evolution and competitive features of
potential customers and an insufficient framework for relieving the
constraints mentioned above and for capturing an adequate share of the
available and prospective market.



- 22 -
(vii) Past Attempts at Reviving the Performance of CFM(S)
15.   Past external assistance to the CPM(S) system has sought to relieve the
constraints to the recovery of the performance of the system. Since 1984, at
least US$17 million has been provided by the donor coun.ity to assist CPM(S)
to upgrade the physical facilities of Maputo port to handle international
traffic. A further US$16 million has been spent on technical assistance and
training to improve management skills and systems and the operational
efficiency of the port. On the railways subsystem, the focus of donor
assistance has been on the rehabilitation and restoration to service of the
Limpopo line. To date, about US$64 million has been spent on this program and
an additional US$60 million is expected to be spent through 1993 to complete
the line rehabilitation. Aggregate expenditures oan the rest of the railways
system since 1984 are not readily available. However, at least US$5 million
has been spent on technical assistance since 1990 and the total spent on new
locomotives and rehabilitation of the system's mechanical engineering
workshops between 1990 and the end of 1992 is estimated at US$73 million. CNN
is currently seeking donor support for the financing and implementation of a
US$167 million investment plan covering the entire system.
16. Although a significant part of the investment undertaken to date, namely
the Limpopo line rehabilitation, has not been completed, there is considerable
concern amongst the donors that, as a basis for resuscitating the performance
of the system, the assistance strategy implicitly pursued to date is flawed.
First, the strategic framework in existence to guide investments and actions
has not provided a sustainable balance in the performance of all parts of the
system. Using donor assistance, CFM has addressed some key deficiencies in the
infrastructure, systems and operating assets of the CNM(S) system. However,
bottlenecks to efficient operations have arisen in other parts of the system,
negating the impact of this assistance. Second, a precondition for the
success of any large measure of future assistance is the existence of an
organization with clearly defined performance objectives. In the new economic
environment, specific operational and financial performance objectives would
need to be set for CFM(S) by the Government and actively pursued by its
management. Third, with a clearly stated plan of objectives, achieving rapid
and comprehensive improvements in the performance of the system would require
substantial strengthening of the capacity of the existing management. Such an
approach would require the establishment of new performance norms for key
areas of operation, the restructuring of current operating practices and the
upgrading or scrapping of assets to relieve bottlenecks to the achievement of
such norms, the reduction of staffing to levels consistent with acceptable
levels of operating efficiency, the revamping of accounting and operating
statistical systems to support the monitoring of performance and the
restructuring of organizational relationships. Fourth, CPM(S) is a small part
of the overall regional transport corridor system, but it is almost wholly
dependent on the corridor system external to Mozambique for virtually all its
traffic. The railways and shipping services feeding into and out of it
represent th.z -.t important sources of expenses in the international
transport chain for regional importers and exporters. These services are also
constituent parts of the other corridors. The regional users are unlikely to
be interested in using or promoting the use of the CFM(S) system if the
returns to such efforts are perceived as uncertain due to a slow turnaround in



- 23 -
the system's relative efficiency. Finally, recent developments In the
international trading prospects for RSA have introduced new uncertainties into
the competitive prospects for the CIM(S) system and created an urgency for the
improvement of its efficlency. As a result of the opening of new coal
markets, there is ct,rrently pressure In the RSA for the development of new
port facilities to handle expanded coal exports. The development of a new
coal terminal would have two immediate adverse Implications for CPM(S)s (a) it
would eliminate the prospect for a meaningfal increase in traffic volumes on
the Ressano Garcia line and in the port of Maputo which are dependent on
increased coal and other mineral exportsl and (b) enhanced competition would
be faced for the transport of other transit traffic from commodities which
could be handled on the same infrastructure developed for coal exports at
little incremental capital costs.
(viii)   Performance Improvement Strategy
17.   To address the constraints on the capacity of the CPM(S) system to be
competitive and improve its perfonmance, Government, the donors and IDA have
agreed on the need for a fundamental re-evaluation of the strategy of
assistance to the system and the formulation of a coherent restructuring
strategy. At the core of this re-evaluation is the recognition that, given
the competitive environment, CFK(S) has neither the time nor the resources to
pursue a detailed revamping of its operations and management. Further, the
Governmeat cannot afford to underwrite the risk that the substantial public
resources that would need to be devoted to implement such a strategy might
ultimately yield little benefit to Mozambique in terms of enhanced net foreign
exchange earnings. In the light of the above and after detailed discussions
with IDA and the donors, the Government has decided on an approach to the
revival of the CFM(S) system with the following features: (a) the assessment
in detail of the strategies and operating actions that would need to be
implemented by the CFX(S) system to achieve competitive levels of operating
efficiency and an acceptable measure of financial performance in the shortest
possible time; (b) the assessment of the scope for involvement of the private
sector in managing all or parts of the system to implement these actions and
achieve the designated objectives as an alternative to a program of
restructuring implemented under the existing organization; tc) based on these
assessments, the initiation of a process of active promotion of the
involvement of the private sector in the provision of services on the system
and, in the interim, provision of assistance to CFM(S) in negotiating the
privatization of parts of the system in which private sector operators have
already expressed a serious interest in investing and managing. Both the
Government and IDA see this approach to revitalizing the performance of the
CWH(S, system as having a number of important meritst (i) it would provide the
basis for the compilation of a comprehensive dossier on the resources, and the
current and the potential performance of the system; (ii) it would provide a
basis for alternative assessments of the system's financial worth as reference
points for the evaluation of bids and form the range of financial values of
the system; (iii) it would clearly highlight the relationship between the
effective implementation of defined strategies and actions and the long-term
financial viability of the system; and (iv) it would make transparent any
decision on the scope of private sector participation in the provision of
services on the system and base it on the relative capacities of prospective



- 24 -
private investors to exploit the commercial potential of the system.
(ix) Future Forms of Private Sector Participation
18. In terms of the assessment of the scope of private sector participation
in the management and operations of the CPH(S) system, Government has decided
to limat the options to be considered to three forms as follovws
(a)   Award of concessions to manage and oPerate specialized terminals
at the lport and other specific lport and rail facilitcomponents to
users and private operators. This is a continuation of the existing
policy objective pursued by CPH(S). As envisaged, this approach would
entail significant external assistance to CPH(S) to strengthen its
capacity to manage the other activities of the system and to effectively
coordinate operations between and amongst such concessions and the rest
of the system. The strategic operating and commercial objectives and
approaches to be pursued by CFK(S) vould be as defined in the assessment
of appropriate approaches to maximizing the financial potential of the
system.
(b) Creation of a transport corridor conglomerate corporation with
award of operating concessions for selected activities by the
subsidiaries to the 2rivate sector. Under this option, the following
are envisageds
(i)   formal incorporation of each of the corridor operating
divisions as fully owned subsidiaries of CPM;
(1i) centralized investment planning by CPK;
(iii) centralized management by CPf of cash generated from
operations by the individual subsidiaries;
(iv) creation of a General Directorate and Administrative Council
for each subsidiary. The General Directorates would be
responsible for identifying activities suitable for operation
under concession, negotiating specific concession agreements and
coordinating the activities of the private operators. The
Administrative Councils would be responsible for corporate
strategy formulation and the specification of the rights and
responsibilit!.es of all parties involved in the management and
maintenance of infrastructure.
(v)   reservation of financial responsibility for the maintenance
of the infrastructure of the system for the public sector;
(vi) formation of railways operations subsidiaries by the CPU
subsidiaries; these corporations would have similar management
structures as their parent bodies; and
(vii) award of concessions for the operation of selected
activities in both the ports and railways to the private sector.



- 25 -
Noteworthy characteristics of this option are* (a) the possibility of
cross-subsidization across corridor systems that cater to distinct
marketsa (b) strong user influence on all areas of corporate policy
including pricing and investmentst and Ic) residual responsibility for
the financial performance and risks of the syatem on CFM and its
shareholders.
(c)   Award of a master lease (concession) to one private sector
ornanization to manase all -arts of the system exce2t those activities
that can be demonstrated to be better discharged under Public sector
management. The key features of this option are as followes
(i)   All operationally useful assets would be transferred from
CIM(S) to a new organization, with residual assets made up of
scrap or defective assets surplus to the requirements of an
efficiently operating organization remaining with the old CPM(S).
Alternatively, an administrative structure to manage unrequired
assets may be created. All useful assets would be subject to
lease to one organization.
(it) All workers, except those selected by the lessee
organization would remain administratively under the existing
CNP(S) or, as relevant, be transferred to an administrative unit
established under the labor redeployment component of the project.
(1ii) The lessee organization may consist of an operator or a
combination of operators and investors.
(iv) The lessee organization may sub-lease operations or
activities to third parties and enter into operating arrangements
with contiguous transport systems to achieve operating efficiency.
(v)   Responsibility for achieving a satisfactory degree of
financial performance for the leased assets and businesses would
rest with the master lessee organization which would assume all
financial risks including those related to equipment and
infrastructure for the duration of the lease period.
(vi) The new CPN(S) organization would be responsible for the
fimancial performance of the parts of the nsstem under its
management.
Cvii) The new CFM(S) organization would be responsible for
monitoring the performance of the master lessee and for related
corporate planning activities.
Under this option, coordination of all activities and investments in
such activities would be managed by one entity with a strong financial
incentive to ensure that the system performs well.



- 26 -
MI. Detailed Proiect Description
19. Investment Advisorl Services. This component consists of three parts as
followss
(a) Investigative and Analytical Services. This sub-component will
involve the detailed evaluation of the past performance of the system;
the evaluation of the resources of the system, the scope for
improvements in operating efficiency and the means through which such
improvements could be achieved; a detailed review of the market
prospects of the system including the comercial strategies that would
need to be pursued to gain market access and share and the changes to
any regulations affecting the commercial attractiveness of the system
that would need to be madet an assessment of the investment requirements
across the system to support the market strategy; an evaluation of
management and technical capacities in the system and indicative
staffing requirements and costsg an assessment of the financial
performance potential of the system and possible ways in which the
system might be structured organizationally; and the assessment of the
options for privatizing the system. It is estimated that these
investigations would require 74 man-months of effort over a seven month
period. The team undertaking this task would comprise a coordinator
supported by two analysts and a group of technical specialists
consisting of railways and ports operations specialists and engineers,
management consultants, market analysts and logistics specialists. A
review group consisting of personnel drawn from a number of ministries
and supported by external advisers would review designated outputs
produced by the team. ThMs review process reflects the Government's
concerns that a broad bod" of experts be involved in the conduct of the
study to ensure that the:a is a measure of consensus behind the final
recommendations arising from the investigations. Government would make
a decision on the global strategy for the restructuring of the CFM(S)
system and the degree of privatization of service provision to be aimed
for on the completion of this sub-component. Terms of reference for
this sub-component were finalized at negotiations.
(b) Financial Advisory Services. This sub-component will address the
requirement of the Government and CPM for support in negotiating and
structuring transactions for the privatization of operations of some of
the specialized port terminals and for the involvement of the private
sector in the management of maintenance facilities on the railways.
Such advisory services would be provided on an as-required basis by the
investment advisory firm selected to co-ordinate and manage the
investment advisory services component. Six man-months of services have
been provided for this component. These services are expected to be
required prior to the completion of the analytical and investigative
studies.
(c) Investment Advisory and Investment Promotion Services. These
services will cover the design of options for the privatization of the
provision of services on the system, the preparation of appropriate
investment solicitation documentation, promotion of privatization



- 27 -
schemes to likely interested Investors and operators and assistance to
Government in negotiations with prospective investors. The design of
privatization options vill be based on the investigative work done and
take Into account any measure of privatization achieved prior to the
completion of the investigations.
20.   Legal Advisory Services.  A review of the legal framework governing the
conduct of business by CFM was undertaken during appraisal. This review
indicated a number of potential legal issues of relevance to the proposed
restructuring of CNM(S). First, existing labor laws and regulations clearly
define the administrative and legal procedures to be applied in all cases of
termination of redundant workers. However, workers transferred from MTC to
CPM in 1989 are covered by different labor regulations ('Estatuto dos
Funcionarios do Zstado' and 'Lei do Trabalho') due to its transformation into
a state-owned enterprise.   Accordingly, clarification of the procedures to be
followed for shedding workers is required. Second, the civil law legal
framework adopted by Mozambique makes no provision for the concept of an
operating lease as practiced in the common law tradition. However, the
concept of a 'concessao de servico pablico' (a concession of public service)
does exist. Such a 'concession' can be structured to mirror the features of
an operating lease (i.e. allocation of the use of state-owned assets to a
third party for defined periods of time under specified rules and payment
terms). The applicability of this concept for the project wi'l be examined
and other appropriate legal instruments identified in accordance with the
provisions of the existing civil and commercial codes in Kozambiqae. Third,
under existing laws, state-owned and private enterprises can enter into joint-
ventures for the operation of services. Currently, the climate for the
operation of such legal entities is highly uncertain since the state reserves
the right to revoke any provisions in these agreements. In :ecognitlon of
this, Government is currently reviewing the foreign investment law (Law No.
4184) and other related regulations with a view to strengthening the framunork
for the provision of incentives and guaranties. The proposed legal advisory
services component wills (a) assist Government to update and streamline the
existing legal framework governing 'concessions of public service'; (b)
establish whether satisfactory modalities are available to handle extensive
labor redeployment from CFM within the framework of the existing labor laws
and regulations and, as relevant, assist the Government to revise and
streamline existing labor laws and regulations; (c) assist the Government and
CM in reviewing and updating as necessary, provisions of the civil code,
commercial code and administrative law applicable to the options under
consideration for the privatization of service provision on the CNM(S) system;
and (d) support the Government in negotiating specific privatization
transactions as they arise; such support to include identification of any
critical legal issues, possible forms of solutions to such issues and
drafting, as necessary, of agreements and other legal documentation. The
estimated requirement for legal services is twelve men-months for the review
and amendment of laws and regulation and six man-months for the traneaction-
related legal services.
21.   Environmental Analytical Servic6s. Conditions on the CPM(S) system in
terms of both environmental protection and occupational health and safety are
inadequate and unsatisfactory. There are no pollution abatement, oil and



- 28 -
waste collection, processing or disposal facilities for use by ships and on
the port. Safety consciousness in the workshops and at cargo-handling
facilities is low and compounded by the unsafe condition of some equipment and
the use of protective clothing is limited.   Dredging is becoming an important
issue of environmental concern as the significant deferral of maintenance
dredging since Independence is being rectified and routine maintenance
procedures are put in place. It could become an even more important issue if
the capacity of the port or the competitiveness of shipping services is to be
enhanced. Similarly, the protection of wetlands is emerging as an issue as
CFM(S) plans to extend the port of Matola by infilling wetlands and has
commenced with the use of trash and construction debris. On the railways,
standards for safe handling of tozic and other unsafe cargo as well as the use
of chemical compounds in maintenance activities are non-existent but are
likely to emerge as key areas of concern. This project component will involve
the review of existing standards of occupational health and safety and
pollution abatement governing port and railways operations, the assessment of
the safety of operating and maintenance facilities, the recommendation of
standards to be complied with including international conventions governing
environmental protection in ports. the assessment of required changes In
operating and safety procedures, t'ae assessment of the investment requirements
to comply with minimum standards ef safety and environmental protection and an
assessment of the issues to be explored in relation to future maintenance
dredging and, if justified, quay expansion in the port. This study will be
coordinated with the preparation of a National Environmental Action Plan under
which the issues of regulation of environmentally sensitive activities and
occupational health and safety and the national capacity for monitoring
compliance with regulatory standards are to be studied in detail. The study is
expected to require five man-months of effort to complete. The scope of work
for this component was finalized during the negotiations.
22.  Labor Redeployment Strategy. This component of the project would involve
the preparation of detailed options for the redeployment of surplus staff from
all three corridor systems, the elaboration of the eligibility criterla for
specific options, the likely unit cost of retrenchment under each option, the
required administrative structures for each option and the institutional
arrangements for management of a comprehensive program of retrenchment and
redeployment of workers. A detailed assessment of the number of surplus staff
has already been made on the Beira Corridor system and a preliminary
assessment of redundant staff has also been carried out for the Maputo
Corridor system. It is intended that the completion of this study will be
followed quickly by implementation of a redeployment program covering some of
the already identified workers. This component was prepared by USAID in
consultation with Government, IDA and the donors.
23.  Equipment. The following equipment, with an estimated total base cost
of US$1.2 million, would be provided under the project:
(a) Port Handlving quaipmt. The port of Maputo is currently incurring a
shipping surcharge of US$225 per container for container vessels, which
significantly undermines its competitiveness. This surcharge is being
imposed by shipping companies to compensate for high total turnaround
times for container carrying vessels. These conditions are attributable



- 29 -
to poor service times due to the slow clearance of containers from the
quay to the parking areas as well as congestion in container parking
areas. These in,turn are largely caused by an imbalance in the capacity
of handling equipment for transfer of containers from the queue relative
to the discharge ratee of the ship-to-shore gantry cranes. $his
constraint in the capacity of handling equipment reflects in part the
low rates of mechanical availability of an aged fleet of tractor units
and front-end loaders. Any provision of equipment under the project
would ensure: (i) that the port is at least capable of handling some
container traffic at competitive shipping rates whilst the design of a
restructuring program including the prospective privatization of the
container terminal is underway; but (Li) the equipment requirement would
be sized to insure against the risk of redundant assets and the
possibility of non-recovery of the full cost of such additional
equipment from a lessee with possibly different preferences as to
equipment configuration. It was agreed at negotiations that priority
equipment investments would be made based on IDA having received from
Government a satisfactory report containing the economic and financial
justification for said investments.
(b) C.amunications Eulaiment. Maputo has faced and continues to face an
imuediate logistical challenge in moving a large volume of maize for
drought relief in neighboring countries. Bowever, the comuinications
facilities to enable effective operational co-operation with neighboring
countries are limited. Such links are essential not only to facing the
Immediate challenge but to future effective service to customers in
neighboring countries. In particular, part of the objective of the
support for coinuications upgrading is to facilitate the linking of
CPM(S) operations with the tracking systems of neighboring railways.
The equipment to be provided under the project will Include facsimile
transceivers, microcomputers and related software.



- 30 -
SECTION Bs Proiect Costs. Financing. Procurement. Disbursements.L
Reporting. Management and Agreements Reached
I.    Project Costs
1.    The total project cost is estimated at US$10.5 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$9.3 million or about 89Z of total costs. The
estimated total project cost is net of taxes and duties which would be borne
by the Government. The project costs are estimated on the basis of a six-year
implementation schedule which is consistent with the experience of the Bank
for the implementation of projects in Mozambique. Base cost estimates are
calculated using March 1992 prices. Price contingencies of 3.9Z p.a and
physical contingencies of 101 have been applied to all components except for
the labor redundancy study which is expected to be awarded on the basis of a
fixed budget. Given the limited window of opportunity available to the
Government to implement actions to restore the competitiveness of the CFM(S)
system, an implementation schedule of six years is inconsistent with the
objectives of the project. Accordingly, for project management purposes, an
implementation target of 2 to 3 years has been agreed upon with the
Government; appropriate incentives would be built into the contract with the
investment firm to make this achievable. This would reduce total project
costs to approximately US$9.6 million.
II.   Project Finanucng
2.    The proposed IDA credit of US$9.3 million equivalent would finance 89a
of total costs including 1001 of the foreign costs and 571 of the estimated
local costs of the investment and legal advisory components of the project,
and 1OOS of the total cost (excluding taxes) of port handling and
communications equipment. The total estimated cost of the environmental
analysis component (US$O.l million) and the labor redeployment strategy
component (US$0.6 million) of the project would be parallel financed by ODA
and USAID, respectively. Government financing of US$0.5 million would be
utilized for part of the local cost of the investment and legal advisory
services, including office facilities and secretarial support.
III. Procurement
3.    The procurement procedures for the IDA-financed components are as
followss (a) Investment Advisory Services. The contracts for the conduct of
a review to determine the operating and financial potential of CFM(S) and
provision of investment promotion and financial advisory services would be
awarded as one package to the best-evaluated firm from a short-list of
investment banking firms. The firma may contract for the services of
technical specialists or associate vith specialist technical or management
consulting firms as necessary to cover the scope of work, but would assume
singular responsibility for all phases of the work. The selection process
would be based on the Bank's *Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981); (b) Legal
Advisory Services. Legal Advisory Services would be contracted for from firms
with experience in civil law systems. The selected firm would nomuinate two



_ 31 -
individuals with resumes satisfactory to G6M and IDA to provide legal advisory
services to CtM and the Government on an as-called for basis; (c) Equipment.
Equipment would be handled in two packages.  Communications equipment.
expected to cost in aggregate less than US$300,000 would be limited to
US$50,000 per contract and procured on the basis of the comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries eligible under the Bank's 'Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits' (May 1992), and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. Port handling equipment would be procured as one lot under
ICB in accordance vith Bank guidelines. Contract Review. Contracts above
US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement
documentation. The balance of the packages would be subject to random post-
review by IDA after contract award.
IV.   Disbursements
4.    The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against expenditures as
follows: (i) 95 of total expenditures on consultants' services; (1i) 100? of
total expenditures on comunications and port handling equipment. For
expenditures on the local component of the advisory services and purchase
orders and contracts not exceeding US$50,000, disbursements would be on the
basis of statements of expenditures (SONs). All other disbursement claims
would be fully documented. In order to expedite disbursement of funds, a
special account with an initial deposit of US$0.4 million would be established
and would be replenished in accordance with procedures agreed at negotiations.
The estimated schedule of disbursements of IDA funds is shown in Schedule B.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1998, if not earlier
(para. 1), with the Closing Date scheduled for December 31, 1998.
V.   Reportins and Monitoring
5.   During negotiations, the following accounting and auditing arrangements
would be agreed upon; (i) Project accountss that memorandum accounts would be
maintained on a basis satisfactory to IDA by CFM for all IDA-financed
components of the project, including local costs financed by Government; (it)
Audits: (a) that the project accounts, including the Special Account, and all
disbursements against SOEs would be audited separately and on an annual basis
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) that the consolidated annual
accounts for CPM and the accounts for CFM(S) would be audited and submitted
annually to IDA by no later than six months after the end of CdM's financial
year. The following arrangements for project monitoring and reporting would
be agreed upon during negotiations: (i) that MTC would provide on a quarterly
basis consolidated reports (comprising the quarterly reports of the
consultants and MTC commuents thereon) on project implementation progress
covering the status of procurement of goods and progress in the conduct of the
advisory services and studies; and (Li) that MTC would prepare and submit to
IDA no later one month prior to the mid-term review (set for ten months after
the date of effectiveness) a review of the progress of the project su_marizing
any privatisation transaction made to date. This submission should also
detail the findings and recoumnedations of the investigations and analyses
carried out by the investment bank specifying the bases for Government's
decision on a global strategy for restructuring CPM(S) including the scope for
private sector service provision and any significant deviations (and the
reasons for them) from the recoamendations of the investment bank.  The



- 32 -
actions and timetable proposed to be taken by Government to implement its
decision should also be outlined.
VI.   Prolect Management and Review
6.    The project vould be managed by an Inter-agency comittee consisting of
senior officials from MTC, the Ministries of Finance and Commerce, the
National Planning Commission, Banco de Mozambique and the Ministry of Justice.
The committee would be responsible to the Minister of Transport and
Communications, who would report on the activities under the project to the
Council of Ministers or other competent authorities as a8reed with IDA. The
committee would be headed by a senior official from MTC and operate on a full-
time basis. The body would be responsible for monitoring all phases of the
project, includings (i) bid analysis and proposal of contract awards for the
provision of services; (ii) analysis and approval of the assumptions and
criteria used by the selected firms; (iii) analysis of new investment projects
for CFM(S) during the period under which the investigative analytical
components are being carried out; and (iv) implementation of the decisions
arising out of the investigative analytical phase of the project. Other
working committees may be established by this coamLttee as required to review
specific components of the project. However, all such sub-committees would be
headed by a leader designated by the head of the inter-agency committee. For
transaction-related activities, the committee will review all proposals for
the promotion and execution of investment deals and make recommendations for
any modifications in such deals for approval to the Council of Ministers. CFM
would provide both the committee and the investment firm with a regularly
updated list of proposals currently under consideration or received during the
implementation of the project. The review sub-commattee for the investment
advisory services will meet on a fortnightly basis with the lead advisor of
the investment advisory services provider to review progress in the
performance of services. Day-to-day operational support for this official
will be provided by CFM as part of its counterpart contribution.
7.    The key elements of the implementation process and other relevant issues
were discussed at negotiations, and based on this implementation guidelines
are being prepared in close consultation with representatives of the inter-
agency committee and CPM.
VII. Agreements Reached
8.    During negotiations, agreement was reached on the followings
(i) all project financing for the advisory and consulting services will be
passed onto CNM as equity, and all project financing for equipment will
be on-lent to CPM at a fixed rate of 9Z for a term of 15 years,
including a grace period of five years (p. 6, para. 15);
(ii) for every year starting in 1993s (i) a draft multi-year investment plan
will be submitted to IDA by September 15; (ii) a joint GOMIDonor/IDA
review of the draft plan will be held by October 15; (iii) a final
version of the plan based on the review will submitted to IDA by
November 1 and (iv) a progress report detailing measures taken to
implement the plan will be submitted to IDA by April 15 (p. 7, para.
15);



- 33 -
(iII) project sccounts and all disbursements against SOEs will be audited
separately and on an annual basis by indepesdent auditors acceptable to
IDA; and the consolidated annual accounts for CPM and the accounts for
CFa(S) would be audited and submitted annually to IDA by no later than
six months after the end of CFM's financial year: (p. 31, para. 5) and
(iv)  a mid-term review be carried out no later than ten months after the date
of Effectiveness (p. 7, para. 15);
(v)  no later than one month prior to the afore-metioned review MTC will
submlt to ID a progress report detailing any privatization transaction
made to date, as well as the findings and recomendations resulting from
completion of the investigative analytical component specifying the
justifications for Government's decision on a global strategy for the
restructuring of CuM(S) including any significant deviation (and the
reasons for them) from the recommendations of the investment firm (p. 7,
para. 15); and
(v)   NTC provide IDA with quarterly progress reports (comprising the
consultants' quarterly reports plus MTC commests thereon) covering the
status of procurement of goods and progress In the conduct of consulting
services (p. 31, para. 5);
9.   It was agreed that the following would be conditions of effectiveness
(p. 7, para. 15)t
(i)  the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and CPM;
(11)  the execution of an Administration Agreement between Government and CPM;
and
(iii) the submission of the audit reports issued by independent auditors on
the financial performance of CPM for the 1989, 1990 and 1991 fiscal
years.
10.  It vas also agreed that the following would be conditions of
disbursement (p. 7, para. 15)s
(i)  that disbursements would be made against the category of consultants to
carry out the transaction-related services only after a decision oan a
global strategy for the restructuring of CPa(S) satisfactory to IDA has
been made by the Government; and
(ii)  that disbursements for equipment would be made only after IDA has
received from C M, a satisfactory report containing the economic and
financial justifications for prioritised equipment items to be financed
under the project.



- 34 -
Section C: Nature and Timing of Consultancy Services to be Provided.
Terms of Reference, Consideration of Imilementation Issues
and Summary Implementation Schodule
NATURE AND TIMING OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED
A.    Introduction
1.    Five types of consultancy services will be provided under the projects
(i)   Services for business strategy formulation, valuation analysis,
formulation of the extent and form of private sector participation In
service provision on the system and restructuring of CFM(S) and the
relationship between GOM, CFM and CPM(S);
(ii) Investment promotion and financial advisory services;
(iii) Services for the formulation of labor redundancy strategies, and
training and related cost-sharing mechanisms;
(iv) Legal advisory services; and
(v) Services for system-wide analysis of environmental protection and
occupational health and safety standards, definition of regulatory
standards, compliance and related investment requirements, and
modalities for burden-sharing between public and private sectors where
relevant.
2.    Services 1i) and (ii) are intimately linked and will be managed by one
service provider. The terms of reference are provided in Appendix A.
3.    Service (iii). The definition of redundancy strategy option3, detailed
analysis of requirements for each specified strategy and that of the
management of implementation of a redundancy program will procsed independent
of services (i) and (ii). However, choices of options, implementation periods,
total likely cost of chosen options in the case of the CPM(S) system and final
management arrangements for CPM as a whole will need to take into account
inputs from services (i) and (ii). The scope of work for this component was
developed under the auspices of the funding agency (USAID) and service is to
be provided separately.
4.    Service (iv). The Government and CPM would require an independent view
of the legal implications of proposed business strategies, the feasibility of
specific corporate or concessionlleasing arrangements and assistance in
reviewing and structuring contractual agreements with external parties. This
advisory service will be provided independently of services (i) and (ii). The
service will be structured in two phases. The first phase will consist of
providing assistance to Government in the process of reviewing, streamlining
and updating the legal and regulatory frameworks governing (a) concessions of
public services; (b) labor redeployment issues; and (c) the comuercial and
administrative legal issues pertaining to public companies and the
privatization of service provision on the Maputo Corridor. The second phase



- 35 -
will consist of providing assistance to Government In the preparation and
negotiation of transactions arisinS from the mode of privatization of service
provision selected by the Government. The terms of reference are provided in
Appendix B.
S.    Service Iv). The environmental regulatory and compliance issues are to
be addressed in a national context taking into account the existence and
adequacy of national standards and monitoring capacity. This will involve the
close participation of the Environmental Division of the National Institute
for Physical Planning in the review and analyses as well as the addressing of
its capacity to smange such issues In so far as they relate to ports and
railways. The invesment and cost implications will only be defined after the
review is completed. This service will be provided independently and
arrangements to ensure that its completion is adequately sequenced to provide
an input into the appropriate phase of service (i) were agreed with the
funding agency (ODA) following negotiations. Terms of reference are provided
in Appendix C.
B.    Contracting for Service Providers
6.    The preparatory activities to be undertaken for the process of
contracting for servico provision ares (i) the definition of scope of work,
competencies required fr-a service providers and timing of outputs; (ii) the
definition of criteria for evaluating potential service providers; (iii) the
development of a shortlist of potential service providers; and (iv) the
preparation of letters of invitation (including draft form of contract for
provision of services) to be sent to potential service providers.
7.   At negotiations, agreement was reached with Government and CFM on the
following provisional time-table for the contracting process:
Submission of Package (Letters of Invitation, etc) to IDAs        March 15, 1993
Release of Documents to Short-Listed Firms:                       March 29, 1993
Receipt of Proposals:                                               May 31, 1993
Submission of Results of Evaluation to IDA:                        June 14, 1993
Negotiations wLth Best-Evaluated Providers                         July 12, 1993
Submission of Negotiated Package to IDA:                           July 26, 1993
Contract Signings                                                August 16, 1993
Start of Assignments                                               November 1993
Key implementation issues underlying the guidelines currently being developed
are attached as Appendix D and a Summary Implementation Schedule is provided
in Appendix B. The components of the project to be parallel-financed by USAID
and ODA will be contracted for according to their procedures.



- 36 -                           ADvendix A
Page 1 of 17
KOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR INVESTMENT ADVISORY SERVICES
BACKGROUND
1.    14ozambique has three transport corridors serving the international transit
traffic of neighboring countries. Each corridor comprises an integrated ports
and railways system linked into the regional markets by a well developed regional
railways and roads network.   The northern corridor, comprising the port of
Nacala, the railway line to Malawi and a branch line to the Mozambique Province
of Niassa, managed by CFM-Norte, serves the international and national trade
flows of Malawi and of the northern Provinces of Mozambique.  The central
corridor, managed by CPM-Centro, comprising the port of Beira and three railway
lines to the borders with Zimbabwe and Malawi, and the northwesterA Mozambique
Province of Tete, serves the international and national trade flows of Zimbabwe,
Malawi, Zambia as well as Mozambique. The southern corridor, managed by CFM-Sul,
comprising three railway lines linking the ports of Maputo and Matola with the
railway systems of Zimbabwe, South Africa and Swaziland, and the southern
Mozambique Provinces of Gaza and Maputo, serves the international and national
trade flows of these countries and to a certain extent those of Botswana, Zambia
and Zaire. Of these three corridors, the CPK-Sul system has the largest inherent
transport capacity and the hinterland with the greatest traffic potential, but
faces the greatest competition from transport outlets in South Africa.
2.    The corridors play an bmportant role in the economy of Mozambique.  In
particular, they have a potential to generate significant net foreign exchange
to cover much of the country's balance of trade deficits. However, the volume
of transit traffic has declined steeply in the last two decades and the financial
performance of the systems has deteriorated correspondingly. The decline in
traffic has been due to a combination of factors including disruptions to
transport operations by sabotage of railways facilities and weaknesses In the
organization and management of the systems.
S.    In the early 1980s, the Government of the Republic of Mozambique (COX)
decided to launch a major v~. ~lopment and investment program aimed at the
rehabilitation and modernization of the entire port and railway network of the
country, In order to restore the cost efficient trade routes serving the large
demand of a vast area of the Southern Africa region. Subsequently, and as a
matter of consistency, in 1989 CON decided to restructure the parastatal
resposible for the port and railways sub-sectors - CFK, to enable the provision
of transport services with the required efficiency and effectiveness and to
respond appropriately to the competitive envirooment of each corridor.   It
approved a set of policies aimed at the revitalization of the operating divisions
responsible for the day-to-day management of the country's three corridor
systems, namely CPK-Sul, CPM-Centro, and CFK-Norte, that are integral parts of



- 37 -                           Antidi  A
Page 2 of 17
MOZAMBtQUE
MAPO CORRIDOR REVITAIAZATION (TECMCAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
the transport network in the Southern Africa region.  These policies define
measures that comply with market-oriented and profit-making managemeut
objectives, and encourage the participation of private interests and capital.
They comprise specifically:
*     organizational and institutional reform of CPM as a whole, with the
introduction of coamercially-oriented and cost-effective management
practices, in order to provide the optimal level of services in
response to customers' demands and wishes;
*     Reduction  of  redundant  vorkforce  andlor  its  professional
reorientation, and the introduction of Incentive schemes and salary
levels that help stimulate labor productivity;
Participation of private interests and capital in the management of
specialised port terminals, using medium- and long-term concession
contracts whenever this introduces added value, particularly with
the main users of the facilities and other intervening parties In
the transport chain with clear influence in the specific market
segmentss
*     Establishment of joint-ventures with direct national and foreign
investment that generate additional traffic volumes in accordance
with the investment levels, mainly in the expansion of the port
terminals5
*     rarticipation of private interests in the maintenance and supply of
services that help to achieve greater levels of availability of port
and railway plant and equipment; and
*     Reinforcement of the protection and security schemes for the port
and railway networks.
4.    Since the adoption of this program of restructuring, there have been
significant changes in the region that are likely to affect the future market
prospects of the systems.   These changes also increase the urgency for the
systems to be competitive and sufficiently profitable to be financially
self-sustaining, and to generate a return to WOM on its large investment. In
view of this emerging situation, GO! now wishes to secure the services of an
investment advisory firm to assist it in deepening the restructuring process of
CPM-Sul, which faces the biggest competitive challenge.
5.    Phasing and Scope of the Services:   The work of the firm vould be
structured in three phases, as follows:



_ 38 -                           Appendix A
Page 3 of 17
MOZmIIlQU
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TSCHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJICT
*     In the first phase, a detailed analytical study of the market for
the CFM-Sul system's services and its competitive position and
prospects would be undertaken.
*     In the second phase, the scope and form of privatization on the CPM-
Sul system (and, by corollary, the degree of public sector
Involvement in the system's management) would be determined.
*     The third phase comprises the advisory and support services to GOM
and CM in the implementation of the option as decided upon by the
00M.
6.    In addition to the work in these phases, advisory services would be
provided by the firm in relation to the structuring and negotiations of
investment tranbactions currently under consideration for the CPM-Sul system, to
ensure that CPM's financial interests are adequately protected.
7.    The G0M envisages that the investment advisory firm's services in the
process of restructuring of CPM-Sul would cover the following areass
*     The firm would be expected to assist the GOM in evaluating the
financial prospects of the system and In identifying the related
operating, investment and cosmercial strategies that should be
implemented to realize these prospects and ensure that the CPM-Sul
system earns an adequate return on the total capital invested in it;
*     The firm would define the options available for restructuring the
CPM-Sul organization and attracting private capital and expertise to
effectively implement the identified strategies and achieve the
financial objectives in the most timely manner;
*     Subject to the choice of an organizational restructuring option by
the 00M, the firm would assist the GOM and CPM to attract and
negotiate private sector investment in identified areas of the
CPM-Sul system and map out an Implementation strategy for the
management of those activities to be retained by CFM-Sull
*     The firm would be expected to assess the major institutional impacts
of the restructuring option selected for the CPM-Sul system on the
other corridor systems in Mozambique and on the CPM organization as
a whole, and recommend appropriate readjustment measures; and
*     The firm would assist the GOM and CRM in structuring and negotiating
private sector investment proposals currently under consideration.



- 39 -                           Appendix A
Page 4 of 17
MOZANBIQUE
MAPUO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
8.    Tn undertaking the assignment the selected firm would need to take into
account the fact that the Government has decided that ownership of all existing
assets in the system will continue to be legally vested in CPM. Accordingly, the
potential forms of privatization will be confined to the provision of services
on the system with the use of such CPM assets on a concessional (leased) basis.
In carrying out the detailed analysis outlined below, the investment advisory
firm shall make explicit the criteria used and assumptions considered. In its
analysis, the firm will be bound by all applicable legislation. However, it may
suggest possible changes in the legislation if absolutely necessary to
accommodate the privatization arrangements agreed upon by GOMf. In making any
recommendations on possible changes in legislation, the firm should consult
closely with the legal advisors to GOM.  In addition, all relevant studies
already undertaken shall be consulted.
A. Investigative and Analytical Services
9.    The Investigative and analytical services to be undertaken will serve two
broad purposes. First, the information generated will enable the Government and
the advisory firm to assess the performance potential of the system, determine
the options for partitioning the system for privatization and evaluate the range
of valuations that could be placed on the system. Second, the information to be
disclosed in the investment memoranda and other documents to be used to promote
private investment in the system will be drawn from the investigations and
analyses. The advisory firm will play a key role in the determination of the
exact forms of and the extent of disclosure of information in such documents.
10.   Evaluation of Financial Prospects of the System:  In evaluating the
financial prospects for the system, the services of the advisory firm are
expected to cover the following areas:
*     The investigation of the past operating and financial performance of
the system;
*     Detailed investigation of the current resources and productive
capacity of the system;
*     Analysis of the market prospects for the system; and
*     Projections of the financial performance of the system.
The detailed scope of work for these investigations and analyses are presented
in the following paragraphs.



- 40 -                           Appendix A
Page 5 of 17
MOZAHBIQU
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
11.   Historic Operatins and Financial Performances   The investigations and
analyses under this service heading should cover the followings
Historic Operating Performance
12. The advisory firm shall collect and appropriately tabulate operating
performnce data for the 1970-1991 period. This information, which will provide
the background to changes In the system's competitive position and financial
position and its current status, should cover the followings
*     The key operating assets of the port and railways subsystems, e.g.
number and topology of operating berths, as relevantt storage areas
in the port; number and type of port handling equipment; number of
locomotives by type, i.e. shunting and mainlinet number of wagons by
type, etc;
*     Productivity of major classes of assets on the railways e.g. annual
average availability and utilization of locomotives and wagons;
*     Sunmary measures of the efficiency of service provision on the
ports, e.g. gang productivity in handling major types of traffic,
throughput per berth; ships' waiting time, etc;
*     late of availability of major classes of port equipment,  e.g
availability of cranes, tractors, trailers and forklift trucks;
*     Traffic throughput on the port and railways subsystems, separately
and on the system as a whole; In each case the data should be
categorized into its major coamodity components; and
*     Overall manpower productivity in the subsystems and in the system as
a whole.
13S    A summary narrative should be provided in which any important trends in the
system's productive capacity and productivity should be highlighted and causative
factors identified.
Historic Financial Performance
*     So far as available data allows, data on the financial performance
of the system should be derived for the same period as for the
operating performance analysis.  These should show, as a minin
where feasible, the pre-interest profit and loss performance of the
system and its cash flow generation from recurrent operations.



- 41 -                          Appendix A
Page 6 of 17
MOZAMBIQUE
MUPUTO CORRIDOR RmVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
*     Based on the available financial data and on knowledge of the assets
structure of the system during the specified periods, a summary
analysis should be provided as to the financial viability of the
system during the above period(s).
14. Resources and Productive Capacitr of the System. The analysis, which will
form one of the valuation benchmarks for the system as well as the basis of the
assessment of its latent capacity, should cover the following areas:
Physical Assets of the System
*    A full inventory of the operationally useful assets should be
prepared for the port and railways subsystems.   For working
purposes, the operationally useful assets of the system may be
defined as those assets that are in the day-to-day operational
control of CRM-Sul and are either in working order or can be
restored to a satisfactory working condition within a time and cost
threshold to be determined by the advisory firm.
*    Based on the assets inventory, a determination should be made of the
current value to be assigned to various classes of assets, taking
into account their age and condition. Classes of assets will be
defined by the advisory firm according to operationally meaningful
criteria. Valuation bases should be determined by the firm and
should be ezplicitly stated and justified.
15.  Overatina Capacilt of the Srstems The throughput capacity potential of the
constituent parts of the system should be assessed separately based on:
*     The assessment of the operationally useful assets of the system;
*     Efficiency criteria,  e.g. availability of handling equipment,
locomotives, wagons, etc, utilization rates of available equipment
and assets, work-gang productivity, etc, judged as being attainable;
*     The bases for the efficiency criteria used in the exercise should be
made explicit. The criteria should be organized under a limited
number of scenarios. One such scenario should take explicit account
of the impact of available options for enhancing assets availability
and utilization by eventually entering into operational arrangements
with neighboring railway system.  Where such arrangements are
proposed, the feasibility of such approaches should be explored with
the concerned systems and the results of such consultation fully
documented.



- 42 -                           Appendix A
Page 7 of 17
MOZAMBIQUE
NAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALI2ATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
*     Infrastructural bottlenecks to the achievement of the subsystems
potential throughput capacity should be identified and the cost of
rectifying such constraints assessed separately. This assessment
should cover all infrastructure assets, including the port channel.
*     As a separate exercise, the capacity of the system as a whole, under
different scenarios of operating efficiency should be determined
taking into account the likely constraints, inter alia, the capacity
of the port, the limits to ships queuing, storage capacities at the
port and the railways terminal yards' capacity.  The potential
binding constraints on the overall system's capacity under the
different scenarios should be identified in this exercise.
16.  Manpower Resourcest A study to determine the options and implementation
arrangements for reducing staff would have been completed by the anticipated
start of the investment advisory and related services called for herein. Also,
it is anticipated that actual implementation of staff reductions on the CFM
system as a whole and particularly on the central corridor where the assessment
of surplus staff is well-advanced, would have commenced. The purpose of this set
of investigations and analyses is to refine the assessment of surplus staff,
evaluate the total costs of adequately staffing the system, define the type of
measures that would need to be taken to ensure the system's ability to recruit
and retain appropriate staff, and the distribution of responsibility for
implementing actions to ensure an appropriate climate for managing labor costs
and quality between GQM and the system's management. The selected firm would be
expected to undertake the followings
*     Determine  the  number  of  employees  in  the  port  and  railway
subsystems, analyzed by function and further classified within
functions by broad skills category, age cohorts and length of
service.
*     Identify current industrial relations practices in both subsystems
and determine whether critical procedures are governed by statutes
or evolved practices.
*     Identify pension regulations, if any, in force, their cost and
current solvency status and whether mandated by law or evolved
entity practices.
*     Based on the work done on the operating capacity of the CPM-Sul
system, as well as other investigations and studies for the overall
CYM, provide estimates of the manpower requirements by occupational
category and the degree of labor redundancy or skills shortage by



- 43 -                          APtpedix A
Page 8 of 17
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
occupational category.
*     Formulate strategies for effecting any reductions in the manpower
requirements.
*     Assess the time fram  over which such staff reduction strategies
should be implemented taking into account the system's competitive
eavlromnet and the need for the system overall to reduce costs and
increase its efficiency.
*    Assess the financial costs of implementing the strategies taking
Into account, inter alias
**    Contractual statutory and other service obligations; and
i*    The time frame over which such strategies would need to be
mplemented and the related need to offer appropriate
inducements to staff to effect a speedy adjustment to the
required staffing levels.
Assess  the  level of remuneration  and the nature  of service
conditions necessary to ensure that the systems can compete
effectively for the recruitment and retention of required skilled
staff, particularly in the areas of shortage.
*     Identify training facilities and resources available within CPF and
the country at large that could be used to upgrade skills in key
functional areas with manpower shortages.
*     Identify strategies for strengthening the specific training needs of
the port and railway subsystems whilst ensuring adequate mechanisms
for effective cost recovery or funding for such programs if the
potential beneficiary organizations are different from the providing
organizations.
17.  Administrative and Management Control Systems and Resources
*     Evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of maintenance planning
systems, operations planning and control systems, management
accounting and budgetary control systems and procedures, personnel
administration systems, financial accounting and management systems.
and other key decision support and "maagement control systems.
Identify, where relevant, if systems are shared within parent
organizatioh or dedicated to the CPU-Sul system alone.



- 44 -                           Appendix A
Page 9 of 17
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
*     Assess the adequacy and competence of staff operating such systems.
18.   Market Prosgects of the System:   The review of the system's market
potential should cover the following areass
*     A  detailed review of the potential customers of the system,
including their competitive prospects and growth potential.
*     An  assessment  of  the  competitive  advantages  and  current
disadvantages of the CPM-Sul system in serving such customers. This
analysis should cover a review of the total cost of transport for
the major identified groups of customers from point of traffic
origination to destination (final customer) if the CFM-Sul system is
used as compared to the use of alternative transport routes. The
cost of the constituent services in the CFM-Sul system and
alternative routes should be identified. The analysis should also
explicitly Ldentify service-quality differences as well as emrging
competitive factors (e.g. differential adoption of improved
technologies and planned or ongoing reorganizations by the parts of
the   route   system   outside   Mozambique   to   improve   their
competitiveness) having or likely to have an effect on route
choices.
*      .Identification of the constraints on the competitiveness of CFK-Sul
arising from the structure of relationships between the CPM-Sul
system  and  other  contiguous  transport  systems  or  service
organizations in the regional transport network.
*     Identification of regulations and practices adversely affecting the
smooth facilitation of traffic through the system and the final
delivered cost of trade routed through Mozambique.  This should
cover inter alia export and import documentary requirements and
carriers' liability, current trading and payment policies and
practices of CPM-Sul, insurance practices and costs, structure of
the freight-forwarding and clearing and shipping agency industry and
its effectiveness, etc.
*     Identification and evaluation of the options for reducing the cost
of service on the various components of the routes encompassing the
CPM-Sul system, particularly where cost is the source of competitive
disadvantage for CPM-Sul.
*     Formulation of various scenarios of traffic levels and growth for
the system under clearly defined competitive conditions.



- 45 -                          Apendix A
Page 10 of 17
MOWAMBDQUZ
rM O CORRIDOR RYITALIZATION (TBCJINICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
*     Comparison of the  scenarios  of traffic  levels and operating
capacities and assessment of potential asset redundancies or future
investment requirements.
19. Prosections of Financial Performancet These projections are requlred to
give an indication to the GOM, subject to pursuit of ldentified operating and
market strategies, of:
a)    the range of future operating cash flow generation by the system;
b)    the magnitude of claims on such cash flow generations for financing
new asset acquisitions and replacements and maintaining the system's
capital base; and
c)    the potentlal amounts available for dlstribution to it and potential
investors.
20.   To do this task efficiently it may need to be assumed that a reconstruction
is effected possibly covering the followings
a)    a new abstract entity is created in which all eisting operationally
useful and required assets are vested at the valuations arrived in
para. 14;
b)    assets assessed as required to supplement the ezisting operationally
useful assets are leased in or hired through operating agreements
with neighboring entities or purchased and financed with debt; and
c)    the value of the transferred assets represents the GOW's opening
equity in the abstract entity.
21.   Subject to this and/or any other convenient working assumptions, the scope
of work for this component should cover the following areas:
22.   ODeratina Cost Structure: Operating cost structures for the system should
be derived based on inter alias
a)    the analysis of operations and the scenarios of performance and
operating capacity developed;
b)    the assessment of labor requirements under the various scenarios,
the requirements for administrative, management and management
support staff and competitive remuneration;



- 46 -                           Agpendix A
Page 11 of 17
MOZAMBIQUZ
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
C)    appropriate variable unit costs or charge rates  for services
bought-in under cooperative arrangements with other systems; and
d)    appropriate unit costs for other material and service inputs.
23.   Flanc ial Projections.  This work should include the followings
*     Preparation of projections of profit and loss based on the work done
on operating cost structures, traffic potential and likely
competitive and, therefore, pricing conditions and on operationally
useful and required assets;
*     Preparation of associated projections of cash flow; and
'-    Preparation of balance sheets for the reconstructed abstract entity
(see above) under the various chosen scenarios.
24.  On completion of this exercise any further measures that need to be taken
to ensure that adequate sustainable financial returns to the CPM-Sul system is
achieved should be identified by the firm.  The exercise should result in
specific recoimendations being made for a global strategy including well-defined
financial objectives to be adopted by GOM for the CPF-Sul system. The actions
to be taken to effect this strategy identified from the analytical work on the
system's strengths and weaknesses should be tabulated.   The most effective
organizational forms under which these actions and the global strategy could be
Implemented would be the object of the organizational analysis below.
B. Privatization on the System
25.   Organizational Restructuring Optionss The objective of this phase of work
is to defines
a)    the scope for and forms of divisionalization  of the system's
constituent areas of activity; and
b)    the most effective mix and form  of public and private sector
participation in the operations and management of the CIN-Sul
system.
26.   The scope of work will comprise three distinct stages:
a)    definition of the options as to the possible organization of the
system's activities and their likely effectiveness in strengthening



- 47 -                           Appendix A
Page 12 of 17
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REmITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
the overall system'; competitive position and thus ensuring its
capacity to earn returns on investments indicated in the financial
analysis;
b)    the identification of the most effective mix of public and private
sector management of the system to achieve the financial potential
of system out of the three options evaluated; and
C)    identification of the role of CO, CPI and CPM-Sul in the foregoing
organizational arrangements.
27.  Organizational Options:  In undertaking this task, the firm will be
expected to consider, inter alia, the following factors:
The complexity of coordination arrangements between the various
defined activity areas and the likely risks of various degrees of
fragmentation on the system's overall efficiency;
*     The consistency of identified grouping of activitieq with the
proposed operating strategies, for example, with respect to the
forms of cooperation with contiguous systems; and
*     The capacity of the system to cater more effectively to defined
streams of traffic under various organizational arrangements.
28*  Scope of Privatizations The firm will review the privatization options for
the CFM-Sul system stipulated below and define their relative advantages and
disadvantages in promoting the efficient and profitable use of the system's
resources. In undertaking this analysis, consideration should be given to the
following factors, smongst otherss
*     Activities which, due to the special risks attached to them or for
economically defensible public policy or regulatory reasons, should
be managed by entities under the control of the GOM and should
therefore not be a direct object of private sector control;
*     The  complexity  or  ease  with  which  effective  coordination
arrangements between possibly different organizations can be put in
place and the consistency of the features of specific options with
the analysis in paragraph 26 above;
*     The efficiency with which activities designated to be managed by
CFM-Sul in any of the options can be undertaken and the risks posed
to the efficiency of other parts of the system dependent on such



_ 48 -                          Appendix A
Page 13 of 17
HAPUTO CORRIDOR RBV?TALTZTION (tTECUNICAL ASSISTANCZ) PROJECT
CRM-Sul activity;
*     The degree of financial risk likely to be borne by the 0OM.
The different organizational options to be evaluated are as follows,
(I   an option In which all assets (except those for which public sector
management can be clearly demonstrated as essential on economic or
regulatory grounds) for defined periods and under specified performance
arrangements and payment terms to an investor group or company. Such an
investor group or company would then decide the basis under which it would
operate the constituent parts of the systemx
(ii) an option in which private sector participation would be confined to the
management and operation of specialized terminals at the port and the
maintenance and supply of services that would help achieve greater levels
of availability of port and railway plant and equipment, vith CPM(S)
managing the rest of the system and assuming the responsibility for
achieving an adequate degree of financial performancet and
(iii) an option which would Involve the awarding of operating concessions for
selected activities to the private sector by subsidiaries of a newly
created transport corridor conglomerate corporation.  The subsidiaries
vould be derived from the formal incorporation of CFMI's regi-aal operating
divisions.
29. On the basis of the analysis undertaken above, the firm will define the
operating activities best undertaken by CIK-Sul and its responsibilities
vis-a-vis the parts of the system proposed to be privatized. As a supplemental
exercise, the firm will undertake the following tasks: (a) identify the
regulatorylinstitutional arrangements that should be in place to ensure that
activities designated to be undertaken by CYM-Sul are managed by it In a
comuercially appropriate fashiont this identification will include, inter alia,
financial objectives to be set CIK-Sul, the powers of the management of the
organization in discharging its performance obligations and the organizational
relationship between CPh-Sul, CPM and G014; (b) recommend a capital structure for
the reorganized CFO-Sul; and (c) map out a process for implementing the proposed
changes in the size and role of the reorganized CPK-Sul as well as identify any
assistance and the form of such assistance required to support such
transformation.



- 49 -                          Appendiz A
Page 14 of 17
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR EVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
C. Investment Promotion and Advisory Services
30. Based on the work done above, and in close consultation with GOM, the firm
saould structure specific investment proposals for promotion to private sector
Investors. The scope of the firm's advisory services will include but will not
be confined to assisting GOM in the following areasv
*     The preparation, as relevant, of Investment memoraAda, prospectusee
or offers for purchase documentation as bases for the solicitation
of private sector investment interest in the parts of the system
identified above;
*    Assistance in evaluating and structuring proposals currently under
consideration by CPM-Sul taking into account the need to protect the
financial Interests of CPN and the COM as more lnformation as to the
intrinsic potential of the system emerges under the analytical and
investigative components of the assignment;
*     The structuring and negotiation of investment proposals covering
inter alia. the valuation of and capital structure for specific
corporate   investment   proposalst   the    structuring    of
concession/leasing    agreements    covering,    inter    alia,
concession/leasing payments or profit/revenue sharing arrangments,
duration of concession/leasing transactions, the formulation of
performance clauses and monitoring arrangements, valuation and
division of residual interest in concession/le see, etc;
*     The assessment of the measures to take and to disclose, Including
the possible support action by external public resources to assist
the CON, to assure investors of protection against unusual and, in
particular, non-business risks. This would cover any measures to be
taken to improve the provision of related services not covered by
the specific investment under consideration, particularly but not
lImited to physical and institutional measures to provide security
and protection arrangements for the port and railway lines;
*     Advice on the promotion and distribution of investment proposals and
the undertaking of all follow-up actions necessary to ensure
adequate   responses   to   investment   prmotion   documentsg
pre-placement/distribution of promotional activities to ensure that
planned investment proposals are adequately structured to secure
adequate investors interestt



- 50 -                           Appendix A
Page 15 of 17
MOZAMBIQUE
HAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
*     Assistance in evaluating proposals received and in negotiating
proposals.
31. The firm would assist GOM in identifying the areas in which public external
financing support would be required to complement private external investment in
the system and the terms on which such financing should be passed on by the GOM
to the target organizations, vhether mknaged by the public or the private sector.
32.   The firm will be expected to consult and cooperate closely with GOM in the
structuring of investment proposals, the preparation of investment memoranda and
during evaluation and negotiations of proposals.
Conduct of Services
33.  Although it is expected that the primary competency of the selected firm
will be in investment advisory services, the firm would be expected to manage and
be responsible for all phases of the underlying investigations and analyses -
technical, coamercial and financial.
34. The firm will be expected to field as a lead advisor, a corporate finance
professional experienced in restructuring state-owned enterprises and in
structuring deals involving relatively complex private sector participation
arrangements (concession/lease or franchise). This advisor must also be familiar
with issues involved in investments in infrastructure, particularly in developing
countries. It is expected that for significant components of the analytical
work, the firm will use individuals or firms with a mix of mamagement consulting
experience, significant technical knowledge of ports and railways industries,
knowledge of trade logistics and experience in formulating business strategies
in competitive and capital-intensive industries. However, the selected firm will
be responsible for quality control of the work of such experts and is expected
to make appropriate arrangements with such firms or individuals to be able to
discharge such an obligation.
35.   The availability of robust historic data in CPM-Sul may be insufficient.
Therefore, there will be a particularly important call on the ability of the team
to piece together disparate data to arrive at sound conclusions on the
performance of the system.
36. The proposed assignment consists of discrete but highly integrated
elements. There will of necessity be considerable iterations and integration of
data before the firm will be in a full position to make recomuendations on the
possible privatization options and terms, structure and presentation of
investment proposals. Nonetheless, for purposes of monitoring progress in the
conduct of the assignment and to ensure that critical information is available



- 51 -                           Appendix A
Page 16 of 17
NOZAMBIQUE
MAPWtO CORIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
for timely consideration by all parties, the following schedule of intermediate
outputs is expecteds
COMPONENT                           ELAPSED TIME FROM START OF
ASSIGNMENT (MONTHS)
Historic OperatinglFinancial Performance             2
Resources of the System                              2
Operating Capacity of the System                     3
Market Prospects for the System                      3
Financial Projections                                5
Organizational options                               7
The total elapsed time of the assignment, including the evaluation and
negotiations of investment proposals, is expected to be no more than 24 months.
37. To facilitate the work of the firm and its team of investigators and
analysts, CNN and CPM-Sul will grant access of the firm tot
a)    copies  of any  relevant  reports  prepared  internally  or by  outside
consultants; and
b)    all accounting records.
CPU and CPM-Sul will also make arrangements for the team to visit work sites or
facilities, as necessary, and facilitate visits to contiguous railway systems.
38.   The  firm  will  be  accountable  to  the  Minister  of  Transport  and
Communications or his Anthorised Representative and for operational purposes,
will report to the inter-agency committee (made up of senior and qualified
representatives of Ministries and other relevant national Institutions) appointed
by G0K to implement the Maputo Corridor Revitalization (Technical Assistance)
Project.
39. The firm shall submit the following reports (50 copies in Portuguese and
20 copies in English)t
*     An Inception Report, one mouth after the award of the assignment, with a
Plan of Operations for the conduct of the assignment;
*     Progress Reports according to the intermediate outputs outlined above;



- 52 -                           Appendix A
Page 17 of 17
MOZAMlBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
*     A Draft Final Report upon completion of the analytical and evaluation
phases; and
*     Other Reports, as deemed necessary by the G0X, related to the advisory and
support services during implementation.
In addition, the firm is also expected to brief the committee appointed by the
G0M on a regular basis and in accordance with the agreed Plan of Operations.
40.  Copies of all reports are expected to be made available to the GOM and IDA
within two weeks of their issue, for review and comments.
41. Due to the complex and delicate nature of the proposed assignment,
Government would require that findings, documentation, reports and other
information acquired and handled by the firm during the course of the assignment
be kept strictly comfidential.



- 53 -                          Appendix B
Page 1 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
HAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR LEGAL ADVISORY SERVICES
Introduction
1.   Mozambique has three transport corridorsV serving the international
transit traffic of neighboring countries. Each corridor comprises an
integrated ports and railways system linked to the regional markets by a well
developed regional railways and roads network. The southern corridor, managed
by CFM-Sul, comprising three railway lines linking the ports of Maputo and
Matola with the railway systems of Zimbabwe, South Africa and Swaziland, and
the southern Mozambique Provinces of Gaza and Maputo. serves the international
and national trade flows of these countries and to a certain extent those of
Botswana, Zambia and Zaire. Of the three corridors, the CFM-Sul system has
the largest inherent transport capacity and the hinterland with the greatest
traffic potential, but faces the greatest competition from transport outlets
in South Africa.
2.    The corridors play an important role in the economy of Mozambique.  In
particular, they have a potential to generate significant net foreign exchange
to cover much of the country's balance of trade deficits. However, the volume
of transit traffic has declined steeply in the last two decades and the
financial performance of the systems has deteriorated correspondingly.
3.   In the early 1980s, the Government of the Republic of Mozambique (GOM)
launched a major development and investment program aimed at the
rehabilitation and modernization of the country's entire port and railway
network, in order to restore the cost efficient trade routes serving the large
demand of a vast area of the Southern Africa region.
4.   Since the adoption of this program, there have been significant changes
in the region that are likely to affect the future market prospects of the
systems.  These changes also increase the urgency for the systems to be
competitive and sufficiently profitable to be financially self-sustaining, and
to generate a return to GOM on its large investment.
5.    Under the Maputo Corridor Revitalization (Technical Assistance) Project,
GNM wishes to secure the services of consultants to carry out legal advisory
services.  These services would be carried out as part of the technical
analysis being undertaken in preparation for the involvement of the private
sector in the provision of services on the Maputo Corridor.
The nortern (Macel.) corridor managed by CFI-NH b, the oentral (iBira) corridor manag
by CFM-Centro and the souhern (Maputo) corridor mnaed by CU-lul.



- 54 -                           A&pendix B
Page 2 of 4
MOZAMBIQUZ
MAPUTO CORRIDOR UVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
6.    The legal advisory services component is to be delivered in two
different phases
Phase Is   which would comprise providing assistance to Government in the
process of reviewing, streamlining and updating the legal and
regulatory frameworks governing (a) concessions of public
services; (b) labor redeployment issueSt and (c) the commercial
and administrative legal issues pertaining to public companies and
the privatization of service provision on the Maputo Corridor.
This would involve inter alia (i) identifying any impediments in
the legal system to the structuring of transactions involving
granting concessions of public services; and (ii) ezamining the
labor regulations and civil service statutes governing CPM, with a
view to establishing a common labor regime for all CF) workers
(hired pre- and post-1989) and determining Government's
contractual responsibilities regarding retrenchment of the CPK
workforce deemed redundant (twelv. man-=mths); and
Phase IIs which would comprise providing assistance to Government in the
preparation and negotiation of transactions arising from the mode
of prtvatization of service provision on the Maputo Corridor
selecte4 by the Goverment. This would be carried out in
accordance with terms of reference designed taking into account
the recommendations arising out of Phase I and the conclusions of
the investigative analytical phase of the project being carried
out by the investment advisory experts (six mam-meths).
Scope of Work
7.    Under Phase S, it is expected that the consultant(s) would analyze the
existing legislation and support Government's efforts to (i) iaprove the legal
framework governing the operations of public companies; and (ii) remedy any
identified impediments in the present legislation to the involvement of the
private sector in the provision of services on the Maputo Corridor. To this
end, assistance would be provided to Government with the following activities:
(A)   clarifying the legal status of CPX as a public enterprise, in accordance
with its statutes and defining any existing privileges under public law;
(B)   reviewing and recommending improvements to CPM's legal and statutory
frameworks in the context of its transformation into a public enterprise
(Lei 17191), with legal capacity to establish subsidiaries, participate
in mixed-equity companies, joint ventures and other types of



- 55 AvDendix -
Page 3 of 4
NOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
partnerships and negotiate concession agreements on behalf of the
Government;
(C) reviewing and recommending improvements to the Labor law (Lel do
Trabalho No. 8/85), and other related regulations in order to refine the
administrative and legal procedures pertaining to manpower dismissalst
(D)   establishing a general regulatory framework for railways and ports
(public) services, defining the opportunities for granting 'concessions'
to private operators and formulating regulations concerning rate
assessment and quality standards in order to avoid monopolistic
practices in services to be privatized;
CE)   identifying the necessary steps required to legally enable CPM(S) to
participate in mixed-equity companies, joint ventures and other types of
partnerships;
(F)   drafting all the legal instruments prescribed by the privatization laws
(Lei 15/91 and Decree 28/91) in order to facilitate the granting of a
'concession of public services' to the private sector for the
participation in the operations of the Maputo Corridor; and
(G)   drafting the necessary adjustments to the commercial and investment
legislation to provide for the legal definition and regulation of equity
and non-equity joint ventures, consortia and other modern forms of
commercial partnerships.
Consultant(s) Skills
8.    Consulting services to provide assistance with the above will require a
consultant/team with expertise in civil law with special emphasis on: (i)
administrative law; (ii) commercial law; (iii) labor law; and (iv) the legal
aspects of public enterprises and privatization. Knowledge of and experience
in legal systems similar to those of Portugal and Mozambique would be highly
desirable. Proficiency in Portuguese and English are essential.
9.    To facilitate the work to be carried out, Government will make
available to the consultants (upon the authorization of the Ministry of
Transport and Coammunications) all pertinent documentation including:
(i)   copies of special legislation, regulations and administrative decisions
applicable to CFM and to the ports and railways sub-sectors;



- 56 -                          Appendix B
Page 4 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECENTCAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
(ii)  a summary of the important or unusual features and exposure to
litigation in respect of any of the above for the enterprise or the
business operation, distinguishing between them both; and
(iii) available documentation pertaining to the legal ownership or equity
structure of CPM.
10.  The consultant(s) would be accountable to the Hinister of Transport and
Communications or his Authorized Representative and for operational purposes
would report to the inter-agency committee appointed by GON to implement the
tMaputo Corridor Revitalization (Technical Assistance) Project.
11.   The consultant(s) would submit the following reports (50 copies in
Portuguese and 20 copies in English)s
(a)   An Inception Report, one month after the award of the assignment, with a
Plan of Operations for the conduct of the assignment;
(b)   A Progress Reports
(c)  A Draft Final Report upon completion of both phases; and
(d)   Other Reports, as deemed necessary by GOM.
In addition, the firm is also expected to provide regular briefings to the
committee in accordance with the agreed Plan of Operations.
Consultant(s) Code of Conduct
12.   Due to the complex and delicate nature of the proposed assignment,
Government would require that findings, documentation, reports and other
information acquired and handled by the consultant(s) during the course of the
assignment be kept strictly confidential.



- 57 -                          Appendix C
Page 1 of 5
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYTICAL SERVICES
Introduction
1.   Mozambique has three transport corridoras  serving the international
trausit traffic of neighboring countries. Each corridor comprises an
integrated ports and railways system linked to the regional markets by a well
developed regional railways and roads network. The southern corridor, managed
by CFM-Sul, comprising three railway lines linking the ports of Maputo and
Matola with the railway systems of Zimbabwe, South Africa and Swaziland, and
the southern Mozambique Provinces of Gaza and Maputo, serves the international
and national trade flows of these countries and to a certain extent those of
Botswana, Zambia and Zaire. Of the three corridors, the CPH-Sul system has
the largest inherent transport capacity and the hinterland with the greatest
traffic potential, but faces the greatest competition from transport outlets
in South Africa.
2.   The corridors play an important role in the economy of Mozambique.  In
particular, they have a potential to generate significant net foreign exchange
to cover much of the country's balance of trade deficits. However, the volume
of transit traffic has declined steeply in the last two decades and the
finaucLal performance of the systems has deteriorated correspondingly.
3.   In the early 1980s, the Government of the Republic of Mozambique (G4M)
launched a major development and investment program aimed at the
rehabilitation and modernization of the country's entire port and railway
network, in order to restore the cost efficient trade routes serving the large
demand of a vast area of the Southern Africa region.
4.    Since the adoption of this program, there have been significant changes
in the region that are likely to affect the future market prospects of the
systems. These changes also increase the urgency for the systems to be
competitive and sufficiently profitable to be financially self-sustaining, and
to generate a return to the WOM on its large investment.
5.   Under the Maputo Corridor Revitalization (Technical Assistance) Project,
GOM wishes to secure the services of consultants to carry out environmental
analytical services. These services would form part of the technical analysis
being undertaken in preparation for the involvement of the private sector in
the provision of services on the Maputo Corridor.
The northrn (Nasal) corridor manaedW by C11-Nart., the central (Beia) eorridor aged
by CPU-Castro and the soutber (Usputo) corridor managed by  1a l .



- 58 -                          Appendix C
Page 2 of 5
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
Institutional Framework
6.    The central administrative capacity for environmental management in
Mozambique is vested in the Divisao Meio Ambiente (Environmental Division) of
the Instituto Nacional de Planeamento Fisico - INPF (National Institute for
Physical Planning) in Maputo, which was established in 1982 under the Comissao
Nacional de Planeamento (National Planning Commission). This Division is
charged with creating the institutional machinery to integrate environmental
management and development as well as with spreading awareness of
environmental issues throughout the comtry.
7.    Government is in the process of reviewing the existing legal and
regulatory frameworks for environmental management and occupational health and
safety to make them more comprehensive and to ensure that future needs are
met. Under the aegis of the INPF, a national environmental action plan is
currently being developed which aims to enhance the capacity for environmental
management, planning and implementation not only at the national level but at
the provincial, district and urban levels as well.
Objectives of Cogonent
8.    It is proposed that the environmental analytical services component
address three inter-related issuess
(a)   the definition of acceptable standards of environmental protection and
occupational health and safety in ports and railways, with a view to
providing an inventory of such standards;
(b) the degree to which the current conduct of operations on the CPM-Sul
system comply with the standards identified; and
(c)   the adverse effecto of prior lack of compliance with standards,
the actions and related costs required to: (i) address any
liabilities arising out of this; and (ii) for ensuring future
compliance with identified standards.
9.    The results of this assessment will form the basis for decision-making
in the following areas:
(i) the extent to which national institutions would need to be strengthened
to permit the regulation and moLitoring of environmentally-sensitive
activities and occupational health and safety concerns in similar
industries; and



- 59 -                           Appendix C
Page 3 of 5
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
(ii) the scope of remedial actions to be introduced and the definition of the
costs of these actions that should be borne by GOM and the operators of
the system, public or private.
Scooe of Work
10. The component would provide the following:
(a)   an evaluation of existing guidelines, control and enforcement
legislation regarding environmental management for both sub-systems.
This should include a tabulation of best practices or sources of best
practices governing ports, railways and related industrial activities
such as dredging, safety rules for cargo handling, workshop procedures
including the safety of machinery etc.
(b) an analysis of current operating procedures and existing regulations
governing vorking conditions in both the port and railway sub-systems.
An assessment of the required changes and/or improvements in operating
procedures, equipment, training, etc. in these sub-systems and a
determination of the initial (set up) and future costs of such actions
should be made.
(c)   an examination of pollution abatement/control practices in both the port
and railways sub-systems focusing ont
i.    the impacts of the resumption of maintenance dredging in the port
and the disposal of dredged material, including the adequacy of the mode
of dredging used; the ecological impacts of any contaminants released by
dredged materials and the precautions taken (and their adequacy) in the
disposal of such materials; the ecological ramifications of siltation in
the entrance channel; and the long-term impacts of further channel
deepening and continued maintenance dredging.
ii.   the ecological impacts of wetland infilling paying attention to
possible economic losses resulting from the loss of habitat and breeding
and spawning areas of species that are essential to maintain estuary,
near shore and maritime fisheries.
iii. the existing capacity for the detection and clean-up of spills -
e.g. oils, toxic compounds. Ecologically and environmentally 'spillage-
sensitive' areas should be identified and a contingency plan outlining
responsibility for dealing with possible incidents including an
assessment of the equipment and training needed should be developed.
Regarding control of the discharge of pollutants in the port area, a
review of the existing reception facilities and current operating



- 60 -                           Aapendix C
Page 4 of S
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
practices dealing with waste management (oily discharges, sewage,
garbage, etc.) should be undertaken in the light of the regulations
stipulated under the International Conference for the Prevention of
Pollution from Ships (1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 - MARPOL
73/78). An assessment of the investments required and a determination
of the costs for Mozambique to become a party to the NARPOL convention
as well as an estimation of future operating costs should be made.
iv.   the control of dry bulk cargo spills (e.g. grains) and windblown
dust emissions (e.g. coal) and investigation of the adequacy (or
existence) of technology to control such emissions. If absent, a
determination of the initial costs and future operating/maintenance
costs of putting in place such technology should be made.
(d)   an examination of the handling of hazardous cargo on both the port and
railway sub-systems, reviewing the types and quantities of cargo
handled, modes of storage, handling conditions and the mechanisms in
place for monitoring the handling of these materials.
(e)   an analysis of the adequacy of the methods used to dispose of waste
generated in both sub-systems e.g. used oil on the railways, bunding on
the ports, etc. This analysis should include recosendations on
appropriate pollution and waste management systems and methods for
containing and/or minimizing pollution and waste generation.
(f)   an assessment of the appropriateness of chemical compounds used for
operational purposes e.g. for cleaning in the workshops, for the
eradication and control of weeds in the area of the track, if relevant,
and with transport or workshop equipment should be made.
11.   The component would be carried out with a view to outlining appropriate
standards for the ports and railways, detailing the investments (and
associated costs) required to achieve those standards and incorporating any
actions needed to achieve such standards or to remove any impediments (in
infrastructure, training, equipment, etc.) to their achievement in the
National Environmental Action Plan currently being devised by the Government.
Also, it is expected that a careful examination of enforcement and compliance
issues - the capacity of the ports and railways to enforce standards and that
of the Government to monitor compliance with such standards, and the
associated burden-sharing and liability issues (i.e. at the national and
system-wide levels) aould be made.
12.   It is expected that the team to undertake this assignment would be led
by a specialist with expertise in environmental economics and would consist of
an ecologist and occupational health and safety specialists familiar with port
and railways operations.



- 61 -                           Appendix C
Page 5 of 5
MOZABIQgJE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
13. It is expected that the assessment would be carried out in a period of 5
peraoalrwjths, at the end of which the team would be required to produce
documentation detailings
(a)   acceptable standards of environmental protection and occupational health
and safety in port and railways and the degree of compliance of the CFM-
Sul system, if any, with such standards;
(b)   recoamendations for changes in current/existing practices and the
actions, investments and costs required to implement and sustain these
changes; and
(c)   recomendations on liability issues surrounding the environmental
management and occupational health and safety concerns of the ports and
railways i.e. burden-sharing between Government, CPM-Sul and any
potential investors in the management of the system.
14.   The team would be accountable to the Minister of Transport and
Cammunications or his Authorized Representative and for operational purposes
would report to the inter-agency committee appointed by GOM to implement the
M4aputo Corridor Revitalization (Technical Assistance) Project. The team would
be expected to coordinate closely with the Environment Division and its
consultants preparing the National Environmental Action Plan.



- 62 -                           Appendix D
Page 1 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
CONSIDERATION OF ThPLEMETATION ISSUES
Introduction
1.    At negotiations, the key elements of the implementstion process and other
relevant issues were discussed. Implementation guidelines for the project are
currently being prepared in close consultation with representatives of the inter-
agency committee and CFM. This Appendix outlines the key issues being considered
in the development of these guidelines.
2.    The implementation process will be comprised of six activities:
A.    Contracting for service providers;
i.    Managing the conduct of services;
C.    Decision-making on the extent and possible forms of private sector
participation in the provision of services on the CNM(S) system and
the concomitant restructuring of CNM(S) and CFM;
D.    Developing, promoting and negotiating privatization initiatives as
decided under (d);
E.    Implementation of the restructuring of CNM(S) and CPM; and
P.    Managing. in parallel with the first two activities above, the
process of developing and negotiating privatization initiatives
currently under consideration.
Contracting for Service Providers
3.    Key elements of this activity are as follows:
Mi)         definition of scope of work,  competencies  required from
service providers and timlng of outputs;
(ii)        definition of criteria  for evaluating potential service
providers;
(iii)       development of a shortlist of potential service providers;



- 63 -                           Anpendix D
Page 2 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
MPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECRNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
(iv)        preparation of letters of invitation (including draft form of
contract for provision of services) to be sent of potential
service providers;
tv)         submission of complete documentation to IDA for review;
(vi)        release of documents to shortlisted firms;
(vii)       receipt of proposalss
(viii)      evaluation of proposals;
(ix)        submission of results of evaluation to IDA for reviews
.x)         negotiation with best evaluated provider(s) - final negotiated
package will include minutes of negotiations, agreed
description of services to be provided and draft contract;
(zi)        submission of negotiated package to IDA for its review and no
objection;
(Cii)       signing of contract; and
(xiii)      commencement of assignment.
4.    Issues relevent to this process include:
a.    determining clearance procedures within the Government that could
affect the speed of the process and what arrangements and
understandings can be arrived at with relevant agencies to overcome
possible procedural bottlenecks; and
b.    determining the need for assistance to manage some components of the
process.
5.    Government noted at negotiations that it would require the services of an
experienced investment banker with developing country experience to assist with
elements (iv)-(x) of the process for the investment advisory services component.
Managing the Conduct of Services
6.    The inter-agency couiittee established to monitor all phases of the project
would be responsible to the Minister of Transport and Connications, who would



- 64 -                           A&2endix D
Page 3 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
report on the activities under the project to the Council of Ministers or other
competent authorities as agreed with IDA. The committee would be headed by a
senior official from MTC and operate on a full-time basis.   Other working
committees may be establlshed by this committee as required to review specific
components of the project. However, all such sub-committees would be headed by
a leader designated by the head of the inter-agency committee. For transaction-
related activities, the committee will review all proposals for the promotion and
execution of investment deals and make recommendations for any modifications in
such deals for approval  to the Council of Ministers.   In managing the
implementation process, the committee will ensure thats
(i)   the service providers structure their work adequately (ensuring
proper phasing and sequencing) and deliver outputs on schedule; and
(ii) the delivered outputs are reviewed on timely basis, that the quality
of reviews is adequate and that the reviews take account of the
comments of all interested parties.
7.    To ensure that  Mi) and (ii) above are carried out with the required
efficiency, the focus of the Interagency committee has been on determainings
(a)   the structure and composition of the review process;
(b)   the  duration  of  the  review  period  for  each  output/sub-
component/component and for the total package; and
(c)   the need, if any, for external specialized support to assist in the
review of various components and the timing of such inputs.
Decision-makina
8.    A final decision on the global strategy for CFM(S)  (to include the
definition of the extent of private sector participation in the provision of
service on the system) will be made within two months of the end of the
investigative analytical phase of the project. Establishing and formalizing the
modalities for the review of consultant outputs will be essential to ensuring
that this schedule is adhered to.
Privatization Initiatives/Restructuring of CFM(S) and CFM
9.    Once the decision on the global strategy and organizational option for
CFM(S) has been made, a timetable for its implementation will be determined based



- 65 -                          Appendix D
Page 4 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
on infonmtion arising out of the investigative analytical phase of the project.
The establishment of clear procedures and development of a time bound plan will
ensure the smooth implementation of the initiatives arising out of the decision.



- 66 -                                      Apendi  E
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMIQ1OUE
MAPMIO COURIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECNCAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
SN1HARY MLEKENTATION SCHEDtlE
ITEM                  1993               1994               1995
1. Investment Advisory
Services
Terns of Referencea/
Letrs of INvtitn -i.
Reel pt of Propolb.
Eaolo0n/Controctng
PrOVison of Services                                  0        a
2. Legal Advisory Services
Fblknoztbn of TORs/
SZeei  of LWeus
Provion Of Seivice                x                         xoaoo
3. Environmental Analysis
Conbrocg for
Seftie Pravino
Prviion of Servim cex
4. Labor Redeployment
Strotag
Concting for
Setvie Pr . ._o
Proviion Of Service
5.   Port Handing
Equipment
Bd Documets/
Tendring                       - _
Evebitbn/Controing                      -
D*eey
S.   Communications
Ecuipmont
Quolos/CwracU                    .
D*eO: _



-67 -
Section Ds Supervision
1.    General.  The core component of the project - investment advisory
services - is complex in design, the approach ls new and the objective of the
project is politically sensitive. In addition, the project must be completed
in a relatively short period of time to be of any economic relevance to
Mozambique.  Accordingly, its supervision would need to be particularly
intensive both to support the decision-making process In Mozambique and to
ensure that bottlenecks to its smooth implementation are addressed and
resolved.
2.    IDA Supervision Inout.  Bank staff Input into the supervision of the
project will take the following forms
(a) Portfolio manasement operations. The review of work programs and
schedules, progress reports, financial statements and procurement
documentation at headquarters and correspondence and internal reporting
related to such activities are estimated to require six staff weeks in the
first two years of project implementation.
(b) Field Suoervision. It is planned to undertake field supervision of the
project on a trimestral cycle for the years of the project, starting no later
than one month after Board presentation and on a quarterly basi4 in the second
year. Field supervision will cover the following areas:
(i)   Review of procurement issues and the working of project
implementation arrangements.
(ii)  Review with the committee and advisory service providers of the progress
of workload of specific outputs.
(iii) Review with the donors of progress in the discharge of services and
performance in key areas of CPM(S) actlvity supported by the donors.
(iv) Review with MTC of key problem areas In implementation and actions taken
(or planned) to resolve them.
(v)   Review with CPM and CPM(S) of the performance of the CPM(S) system.
S.   Borrowers and Beneficiary's Contributions to Supervision
(a)   Aside from the quarterly and annual reports to be provided to IDA In the
form and to the time schedule agreed at negotiations, MTC will, prior to
every supervision mission, prepare an issues paper summarizing progress
on project implementation to date and the key outstanding issues to be
resolved as well as any revised implementation schedule for the project.
This issues paper will form the core agenda of the mission's work.
(b)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings by a senior
official of MTC and attended by members of the task-force and senior
management of CPM.



-68 -
4.    At the end of each mission, an aide memoire summarizing the mLssion's
major findings, agreements reached with the Government, and the actions
requiring attention will be prepared.
FIELD SUPERVISION PLAN
APPROXIMATE DATE                ACTIVITY                         EXPCTED SKILL              STAFF INPUT
(Month/yesr)                                                  MREQUIREMENT               (Ste"-weeks)
*$/9S             Project Start-up;                            Eaginer/
Issues and *rrangemsnts;                    Operatiens S - cletist        8
Review of iaplesnation schedule                Gneral lot
and  *rnennt tor coordiastion
and monltorin;
11/08             Review of progre  of procurement            Engin..r/
and itplemntation of servics;               Operations Special lte        S
a Genera IIst
I/"4              Review of output of oasultent/               Engineer/
advisory service provides;                  Opertions  Specialleta        S
Review of iWes prese_te  to                    Gero IIt
IDA by CMN.
04/94             Review jf output of conaitants/             Engineer/
advisory service providers;                 Operations SecIl ltU          S
Review of I_sue presented to                & GenerIlist
IDA by COM.
07/94             oid-term Review Workshop                    Engineer/
Operations Special Ist       4
& Generelst'
II/4              Review of output of consultants/            Engiemr/
advisory svice providers;                   Operation Specil let          S
Revwleofitae presen    to                   a Gone"IIet
IDA by 0OM.
083/0             Review of output of ceneultant./            Engineer/.
advisory service provider,;                 Operations Spcilalit          8
Review of Ise_s presented to                   Gener liSt
IDA by 0GM.
with exprience In corporate strategy tfomultion or privatiastion proces.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 213a
32M'                       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~2°3'67                 32;32'                              32^34' Aipr   >MOZAIQUE
/                                                     MAPUTO CORRIDOR
REVITAUZATION PROJECT
PORT OF MAPUTO                         2
Ni-.6                                                - s  / /  gX   <( ,'   <  /  ' '  _  Roads
f      --Rslor detis   /
/~~~~~ M \\t / / . i- 40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bbcgths in moers (water depth)/
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
XS- IN='
Salazar      1                                 -
0  -   Th-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C .-bj,
/                                                                                                             C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m 
~~~~~~~~~~0~~~~~~~~
0:-  1                                                                                                    --                by 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Wd8onf/~~~~~~~~'~~so
//     C-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-                             00                                               0                          _____O_TA________211
~~~~~       -                                                                     -~~~~4 ------  OT
tans 1'                                                                                                                                                                    4 



MIASAIANE MABALANE                MAoatDE  MAGUDE              MA0PUT   MAPLiT              mIUom   MAPU                        MPI
WAS7A                             *A 37.0                      mo0m.000                                               MAUO     MP
CHICUALACUALA                    MABALANE            UwaLEE  MAGUDE             ;   smE    R, GARCIA         MCA GBA
Gk  ClRCONAS                 WHA |VA
E050NM                                                         &K!WLWo.*xmOAMM                                       _SVALA
-~                           KA W20.3                .   N000
M- RMaJERCE                  1>A
COAUBOMUNE                        KYSSUES                      KSOlS                      - 9e.5U A
_O                                                                                   UA541UE0
TmA"                  "53A
xa                       v1 212D                      A 77.0                      _ O9NCU10A                  OWk DE AMY
aoov~~eu                         I                                                                           0799 1J
LEND                 t4f                                                    co
I. wMOE                                                MO*AtJU
15O0 wISOo                                               6A69A WKwOGmA
~~~~~~~rM2l.                                                                       OWOU            Eco
OANHCA                       3475A
am                                                             04771
MATUDA       v Mm                          12A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 7.9 9NM
~NCA                               A
PA413.0                          OO.U                        A.UJI
U   COWE
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MO lIE ;                         
Omm
SOUTH                            MAD ANE 
-1052d0                             600 l°° t307.0
MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION PROJECT
MAPUTO TRANSPORT CORRIDOR
-       PItW ROAMS                           LOCAL 0.61
Ae                    -       ER00Am ROADS                         BYERS
COIRlOM RAIOAA S               @     MOOOcECA00
G A                         +      WTERN~~~~~~~~~~OOAEPORTS              NA10ONALCAK.M~
±t   00.3000061                       -      OMOBOUNMAKS
2r  SOUTH~ ~~~~~~~~~~~dsml o Es aenec 
by~ The      1-4
of gendefrs nfdh is afior Oh.m
IL Gorcia                                                                   tVAMA~~~~~~lawlm! h Wrd an    05*
0                                                                                                              --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
30.     -  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  __team



UBREVIL1           14
14'
SOUT
Xo   100  2OE S        20
ocEA>>NAMIBIA _ BOTSWANA /1                                                            MO22 h 2B17 UE
Fr  T;               SSX X mEA S X ~~~CORRIDOR
<  >  5           v                    F            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Transport Routes
X \   t ~~~~z1g    X    X\\  36ih' ~~~~~~-  Mi- ofd R-&t
Mofa> vw h   AORtA\<o  ca.k
f     r ft                Dt-~ tH ,                                                   ort
C.,      bw 4.                                                                       c    oo   2c    o  
W     .f  %b   z,- p    62rr2                                           t          6f4 



