Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19305-MOZ
vIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHMCAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
(Credit 2454-MOZ)
June 28, 1999
Transport I
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc4
of their official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Monetary unit = Metical (NT)
(MT/US$, period average)
1992     1993      1994  1  1995  1  1996       1997      1998
2,516.5   3,874.2   6,038.6   9,024.3   11,293.8  11,543.6  12,180.0
Source: International Financial Statistics, IMF.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       =  Country Assistance Strategy
CFM       =  Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique
CFM(S)  =  Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique (Sul)
ESRP      =  Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program
GOM       =  Government of Mozambique
GSA       =  Government of South Africa
IDA       =  International Development Association
MCRP    =  Maputo Corridor Revitalization (Technical Assistance) Project
MOP       =  Memorandum of the President
MoU       =  Memoranda of Understanding
MTC       =  Ministry of Transport and Communications
MPF       =  Ministry of Planning and Finance
PPF       =  Project Preparation Facility
RPRP      =  Railways and Ports Restructuring Project
TA        =  Technical Assistance
TEU       =  Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit (= 20-foot container)
ODA       =  Overseas Development Administration
USAID    =  United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:                Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:              Ms. Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Technical Manager:             Mr. Yusupha B. Crookes
Task Team Leader:              Mr. Yash P. Kedia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMIBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
(CREDIT 2454-MOZ)
Page No.
PREFACE
Table of Contents
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                                                                                                                      i
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................                                                       I
A. Background   .................................................................1
B. Project Objectives ...............................................................                                                2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives . ................................................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................................. 9
E. Project Sustainability  ................................................................                                         10
F. Bank Performance ................................................................                                                10
G. Borrower Performance .                                                                                                           11
H. Assessment of Outcome ...............................................................                                            11
I. Future Operations ...............................................................                                                12
J. Key Lessons Learned ................................................................    12
PART  II - STATISTICAL  TABLES ...............................................................                                          13
TABLE    1: Summary of Assessments ...............................................................   14
TABLE    2: Related IDA  Credits ........................                            .......................................    15
TABLE    3: Project Timetable ...............................................................    16
TABLE    4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated  and Actual ............                                         ...............  16
TABLE    5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ............................                             ....................  16
TABLE    6: Key Indicators for Project Operation  ..........................................................                        16
TABLE    7: Studies Included in the Project ...............................................................                         17
TABLE    8: Project Costs ...............................................................    18
TABLE    9: Project Financing  ...............................................................    18
TABLE  10: Economic Costs and Benefits ...............................................................                              18
TABLE 11: Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement .                                         ......................................... 19
TABLE  12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................................                             20
TABLE  13: Bank Resources: Missions .............................................                             ..................   21
Annex  1: ICR  Mission Aide Memoires ...............................................................   22
Annex  2: Borrower Contribution to the  ICR ...............................................................                             35
MAP: IBRD No. 30307
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
(CREDIT 2454-MOZ)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Maputo Corridor
Revitalization (Technical Assistance) Project, for which Credit 2454-MOZ in the amount
of SDR 6.6 million (US$9.3 million equivalent) was approved on January 19,1993 signed
on February 12, 1993 and made effective on September 27, 1993.
The Credit was closed on December 31,1998 one year later than the original
closing date. The final transaction took place on March 16, 1999 at which time a balance
of SDR 2.5 million was canceled.
Yash Pal Kedia, Task Team Leader and Gualberto Lima-Campos, Consultant
prepared the ICR. Preparation of the ICR started during the Bank's final supervision
mission on January 1998 and the implementation completion mission on November 1998.
The report is essentially based on material in the project file and data provided by the
Government of Mozambique. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of this ICR
and prepared its own evaluation of the project's execution. The report is included as
Annex 2 to the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
(CREDIT 2454-MOZ)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
(i)   The revitalization of Mozambique's three main port-railway systems, (Nacala,
Beira and Maputo) was made a key element of the Government of Mozambique's (GOM)
Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP), formulated immediately after the
signing of the peace agreement in 1992. At the request of GOM, the Bank agreed to
support GOM's plans to revitalize the Maputo port-railway system through the Maputo
Corridor Revitalization Project (MCRP) as a first step towards revitalizing all the main
ports and railways systems in Mozambique. The Development Credit Agreement for
MCRP was signed on February 12, 1993 and the Credit became effective on
September 27, 1993.
(ii)   The main Project objective was to assist the Government of Mozambique (GOM)
in identifying and implementing strategies that would lead to the long-term viability of
the Maputo port-railway system. The strategy proposed during the Project preparation to
achieve the long-term viability objective comprised two key elements: (a) Government's
divestiture of direct involvement in the management and operation of those transport
facilities in the corridor on the most commercially advantageous terms and establishment
of an appropriate regulatory framework to regulate such divestiture; and (b) staff
rationalization comprising retrenchment of staff considered surplus and labor
redeployment measures to adequately cushion them against the impact of loss of
employment.
(iii) A subsidiary and related objective of the Project was to assist the Government in
implementing actions to enhance the performance of the Maputo port-railway system in
the interim, i.e., until the concessioning of the system. Two key actions were identified
as: (a) a diagnostic study to enable CFM to evaluate its past performance, resources,
commercial strategies, managerial and technical capabilities, and market and financial
prospects; and (b) physical inputs in the form of critical equipment in order to relieve
bottlenecks in the container terminal operations and to strengthen communications with
the systems in the neighboring countries. During implementation developing consensus
and commitment in favor of concessioning emerged also as an interim objective.
(iv)   The Project objectives were fully consistent with the Government's priorities and
were very explicit in the Memorandum of the President (MOP) for the MCRP. The
objectives also supported IDA's country assistance strategy at the time of appraisal.



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
(v)   The Project is assessed as satisfactory.
(vi)  The Project implementation helped develop a consensus and commitment in favor
of the concessioning within GOM. During the Project's preparation and implementation,
the Bank staff held substantial and fruitful discussions with the Government and CFM
officials on adopting the concessioning option, which would offer all the advantages of
private participation in the operation and management of the ports and railways while
allowing GOM to retain their ownership.
(vii)  The concessioning process was substantially achieved. The process initiated by
the Government in the divestiture of direct involvement in the management and operation
of transport facilities in the corridor is considerably advanced and is likely to be
completed by the end of 1999. Three port terminals have been concessioned, a joint
venture with a private partner has been created to manage the Container Terminal; and
Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) for the master concession of the Port of Maputo,
and the rail network package comprising the Limpopo rail link, the Goba rail link, the
Marshaling yard and the Railway Workshop have been signed with different private
consortia. In addition, GOM is in the process of developing an alternative option for the
concession of the Ressano Garcia railway line subsequent to the failure of negotiations
with a potential concessionaire.
(viii) Even though no progress was made in the retrenchment of surplus staff due to
cancellation of the USAID grant, a comprehensive staff rationalization plan for the
redundant work force was finalized and formally communicated to the Bank. This plan is
scheduled to be implemented under the proposed Railways and Ports Restructuring
Project (RPRP).
(ix)   CFM's operational and financial performance showed a modest improvement.
The performance of the Maputo port and railway system has improved since 1994 in
terms of the traffic carried as well as reduction in the overall yearly financial losses. The
equipment for the container terminal was also successfully commissioned, contributing
decisively to the elimination of bottlenecks.
(x)   Additionally, there were two key outcomes that were not fully anticipated at the
time of project finalization, viz., building of capacity within CFM and GOM for
managing the concessioning process, and a great boost to the inflow of capital for the
overall development of the Maputo Corridor, including construction works on a cross-
border toll road, a US$1.4 billion aluminum smelter, two new power lines and numerous
smaller projects such as manufacturing and service establishments, housing, offices,
hotels, leisure facilities, shopping centers and casinos.
(xi)  Even so, the Project suffered from delays during the early stages of
implementation, poor response from the potential bidders, and lengthy negotiations.
First, GOM officials were in general cautious in accepting the idea of privatizing ports
and railways as they viewed these as a strategically important geo-political asset for
Mozambique. It was only through a continuous and persistent dialogue between the Bank



- iii -
and GOM that a decision in favor of concessions was finally made. Second the decision-
making process was slow and the concerned Ministers were not always aware of the
discussions and recommendations. It was only after a high-level committee comprising
the Ministers of Transport and Communications and Planning and Finance was
established that the pace of decision-making process accelerated. Third, USAID
cancelled the Grant Agreement for the labor retrenchment and redeployment component
and as a result, the staff rationalization plan could not be implemented. Finally, the
relations between the consultants engaged to provide investment and advisory services
and GOM/CFM officials remained indifferent and acrimonious resulting in prolonged
discussions, disagreements, and loss of time.
(xii) The Bank's identification was highly satisfactory since the introduction of the
idea of private participation in the management and operations of ports and railways
under MCRP was a path-breaking concept. Through the identification process, the Bank
was able to convince the Government of the need to look at a radically different strategic
approach to the ports and railways systems. This approach ran counter to the prevailing
orthodoxy both inside and outside the Bank, which characterized the railways and ports
as strategic or patrimonial assets that needed to be managed wholly within the public
sector. The potential impact of this concept is now fully appreciated. The Bank's
preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank's supervision was satisfactory as
the Bank kept up a close monitoring of the Project and maintained a continuous and
persistent dialogue with the Borrower on the advantages of involving the private sector
on the management of port facilities which was crucial for Government acceptance of the
idea of concessioning the corridor facilities. The Borrower's performance was overall
satisfactory as regards project identification, preparation and implementation.
(xiii) The sustainability is likely for two reasons: (a) because the agreements and
contracts that define the concessions and other forms of private participation in the
operation and management of the railways and ports are legally-binding on both the
concessionaires and the Government, compliance is expected to be far better than one
could expect in the past from similar agreements between the Government and the
publicly-managed entities; and (b) the Project has helped establish a strategic direction
for the whole port and railway sub-sectors in the country. The forthcoming Railways and
Ports Restructuring Project (scheduled for Board presentation in FY2000) is designed to
deal comprehensively with issues of concessioning of all remaining railway and port
systems including what is remaining to be concessioned under the Maputo port-railway
system, staff rationalization, regulatory framework, and the corporate restructuring of
CFM itself. As a result, not only would the restructuring/concessioning become
progressively irreversible, appropriate institutional arrangements would have been made
to deal with any problems between the concessionaires and the Government.
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
(xiv) The RPRP was negotiated in May 1999 and the Credit is likely to be approved by
the Board in early FY2000. The Project will aim at addressing all issues pertaining to the
concessioning of all the ports and railways in the country and restructuring of CFM in a
comprehensive manner. The main objective of RPRP will be to substantially increase the
operating efficiency of the three major port-rail systems in Mozambique and enable them



- iv -
to capture the maximum possible share of the available freight traffic, mostly the
export/import traffic from the neighboring countries.
(xv) The following lessons can be learned from the Maputo Corridor Revitalization
(Technical Assistance) Project:
(a) Developing genuine ownership of a dramatic shift in business and political
strategy, as in the privatization program in this case, is a complex process.
Although the main objective of the MCRP focused on the divestiture of the
Government's involvement in the management and operation of the corridor
facilities, there was no clear indication of Project ownership when the Project
started to be implemented since most GOM officials were reluctant about
privatization of corridor facilities. The Project proved to be an effective tool
in establishing continuous, persistent, and intensive dialogue between the
Bank and the borrower leading to government's full commitment to the
Project objectives.
(b) Committees comprising lower-ranking officials without adequate authority are
not adequate in advancing a process as complex as the one involving
concessioning. The establishment of a High-Level Committee comprising
Ministers having adequate decision-making power proved critical in
accelerating the decision-making process and in contributing to the
achievement of the Project objectives.
(c) While undertaking concessioning or privatization of a complex railway and/or
port system, it would be a better idea to commence the concessioning process
with one or two key components of the system and to use the lessons to
improve the process for the rest of the system. The concessioning of the
Maputo Corridor has offered many experiences that have made or are
expected to continue to make the concessioning of the other Mozambique
corridors less time-consuming and more efficient and effective.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
(CREDIT 2454-MOZ)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Until 1975, Mozambique's three main port-railway systems, Nacala, Beira and
Maputo, carried most of the overseas traffic of the neighboring land-locked countries,
viz., Malawi, Zimbabwe, Swaziland, as well as the north-eastern provinces of South
Africa. The income from the regional overseas traffic (about US$250.0 million at
today's prices at its peak) financed most of the large structural deficit in the country's
balance of trade. However, after independence in 1975, this traffic declined
precipitously, from about 18.0 million tons in 1973 to about 1.6 million tons in 1991, due
to the violent internal conflict and the consequent damage to the transport infrastructure,
disruption of transport operations, and the massive exodus of the managerial class, as
well as the weakening of the structure of economic incentives and management in the
country.
2.    Recognizing the potential of the port-railway systems in Mozambique in
generating foreign exchange and accelerating the country's economic growth, the
rehabilitation and revitalization of these systems were made key elements of the
Government of Mozambique's (GOM) Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program
(ESRP), formulated immediately after the signing of the peace agreement in 1992. At the
request of GOM, the Bank agreed to support GOM's plans to revitalize the Maputo port-
railway system through the Maputo Corridor Revitalization Project (MCRP) as a first
step towards improving the performance Mozambique's major railway and port systems.
The Project was the second intervention by the Bank in the railways and port sub-sectors
in Mozambique. The first intervention was in the Beira port-railway system and its focus
was on increasing operating efficiency of the system through technical assistance,
training, and investments in operating assets to bridge capacity gaps in the system. While
the main objective of MCRP was about the same, the focus was on institutional change
including substantial private participation in the operation and management of the
Maputo port-railway system.
3 .    The initial revitalization effort was restricted to the Maputo port-railway system
and was not extended to all the ports and railways in Mozambique with a view to
containing the risk of failure. The choice of Maputo as a pilot instead of Beira or Nacala
was made for two reasons. First the strategic calculations at that time was that a delay in
the taking up of the revitalization of the Maputo port-railway system might have
triggered investments in the competing ports of Durban and Richards Bay, thus reducing



-2 -
the opportunity for the port of Maputo to ever increase its market share of the
international traffic from the neighboring countries, particularly the north-eastern region
of South Africa. Second the demonstration effect of revitalization would have been
much greater in the case of Maputo because of the large volume of traffic handled by the
system and the potential market of the system when compared to Beira and Nacala.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.     The main Project objective was to assist the Government of Mozambique (GOM)
in identifying and implementing strategies that would lead to the long-term viability of
the Maputo port-railway system, a key objective of the Government in the transport
sector. The strategy proposed during the Project preparation to achieve the key sectoral
comprised two key elements: (a) Government's divestiture' of direct involvement in the
management and operation of transport facilities in the corridor on the most
commercially advantageous terms and establishment of an appropriate regulatory
framework to regulate such divestiture; and (b) staff rationalization comprising
retrenchment of staff considered surplus and labor redeployment measures to adequately
cushion them against the impact of loss of employment2. Being dependent on the
successful implementation of the divestiture and staff rationalization strategy, the
achievement of the main objective of long-term viability was not expected during the
lifetime of the Project. Therefore, concessioning and staff rationalization were
considered as surrogate objectives for the purpose of evaluation.
5.    A subsidiary and related objective of the Project was to assist the Government in
implementing actions to enhance the performance of the Maputo port-railway system in
the interim, i.e., until the concessioning of the system. Two key actions were identified
as: (a) a diagnostic study to enable CFM to evaluate its past performance, resources,
commercial strategies, managerial and technical capabilities, and market and financial
prospects; and (b) the physical inputs in the form of critical equipment in order to relieve
bottlenecks in the container terminal operations and to strengthen communications with
the systems in the neighboring countries.
6.    Even though experience everywhere else had revealed the inadequacy of the
publicly-managed railways to respond effectively to the changing business environment
and market competition, the majority of GOM and CFM officials, like everyone else in
the region, were highly skeptical of any strategy involving divestiture and private
management and operations. In particular, CFM felt that a phase of internal restructuring
and commercialization of ports and railways should precede any privatization effort. To
provide comfort to GOM/CFM and some donor agencies, who were also skeptical of the
concessioning option and favored some other forms of public-private partnerships, the
strategy was appropriately modified to provide for a study to identify the right option
after evaluating various options for the restructuring and/or privatization of the Maputo
Since divestiture was to be achieved through award of concessions to private operators/groups, divestiture and
concessioning have been used interchangeably in the text ahead.
2 The severance payments were proposed to be financed through a separate USAID program of providing budgetary
support to the Govermment, for which USAI) had allocated close to US$30 million and this aspect is not discussed
in this report.



- 3 -
port-railway system. It could be argued that, in the face of GOM's weak commitment, it
was probably advisable not to go ahead with the Project. On the other hand, it was felt
that a consensus and commitment in favor of divestiture could be built more quickly and
more convincingly through the Project, rather than by maintaining a dialogue outside of
the Project. Finally, it was agreed to go ahead with the Project and the development of a
consensus and commitment in favor of divestiture also emerged as a key element of
Project strategy and as an interim objective.
7.    The Project objectives were fully consistent with the Government's ESRP. They
were also in confonnity with the Government's priorities as expressed by the Minister of
Finance in a Letter of Development Policy dated April 30, 1992 addressed to the
President of the World Bank, i.e., "... continuing the establishment of an appropriate
business environment by enhancingprivate sector-based growth through
restructuring/privatizing large state enterprises... and rehabilitating the economic and
social infrastructure." The Project objectives were very explicit in the Memorandum of
the President (MOP) for the MCRP. The objectives also supported IDA's country
assistance strategy at the time of appraisal, as stated in the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) of 1992 and articulated in the MOP for the Economic Recovery Program
(Cr. 23 84-MOZ) "to establish an economic environment conducive to economic growth
... and support the rehabilitation of key economic and social infrastructure. The overall
approach is to strengthen key institutions, policies andfunctions in a way that will be
conducive to increased productivity ofpublic resources, enhancedprivate sector growth
and reduced poverty... Our operations would support the rehabilitation of key
infrastructure, restructuring andprivatization ofstate enterprises...
8.    The Project was estimated to cost a total of US$10.5 million. IDA's contribution,
SDR 6.6 million (US$9.3 million equivalent), represented 89% of the initial Project cost.
Cofinancing by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the
Overseas Development Administration of UK (ODA) and GOM was initially indicated as
US$0.6 million (6%), US$0.1 million (1%), and US$0.5 million (5%). The final Project
cost was US$5.9 million, 56% of initial estimate, since USAID cancelled its contribution
and about 35% of the IDA Credit was not utilized.
C. ACHEEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    The objectives of the MCRP were to a large extent achieved and the Project is
overall rated as satisfactory. Achievement of the various objectives is discussed in the
following paragraphs.
C.1 Consensus and Commitment-Building
10.   This interim objective of consensus and commitment-building in favor of
concessioning (as discussed in paragraph 6) was substantially achieved. The three main
transport corridors have always occupied an important position in the economy and
political history of Mozambique and are viewed as a strategically important geo-political
asset in the Region. A consequence of this history has been the political concern about
keeping the ownership of the corridors' infrastructure and other long-lived assets in the
hands of the state in order to guard them against their use in ways inconsistent with



- 4-
perceived Mozambican national interests. During the Project's preparation and
implementation, the Bank staff held substantial and fruitful discussions with Government
and CFM officials on adopting the concessioning option, which would offer all the
advantages of private participation in the operation and management of the ports and
railways while allowing GOM to retain their ownership. Even so, GOM remained
cautious and took considerable time to finally take a decision in favor of concessioning in
1996.
11. The following also helped in building consensus and commitment-building in
favor of concessioning: (a) study tours by key CFM and GOM officials to Brazil,
Argentina, USA, and UK, where railway and port concessioning/privatization had made
substantial headway and had met with considerable success in terms of increased traffic,
lowering of tariffs, increased quality of service, and lowering of fiscal burden on their
respective governments; (b) exposure of CFM/GOM staff to the Policy Options Seminar
organized by the Southern African Transport and Communications Commission
(SATCC) in 1996; (c) the Options Study report, which unequivocally recommended
concessioning of the ports and railways; and (d) macro-economic dialogue between the
Bank and GOM, which highlighted the role of privatization in accelerating the country's
economic growth.
C.2 Concessioning
12.   This objective of concessioning (as discussed in paragraph 4) was substantially
achieved. The concessioning of Maputo port and railway facilities is still not completed,
but the concessioning process has advanced to an extent so as to make the award of
concessions an almost certainty. The current concessioning status is as follows: (i) three
port terminals (Sugar, Citrus, and Matola Coal) have been concessioned, with the graph
illustrating how traffic increased in the three port terminals after they were concessioned
Port Terminals Traffic
- +Coal Terminal -U-Citrus Terminal --Sugar Terminal
900
800 -
700-
600-
o 500       
400-
300-
200-
100 
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
Year
in 1995; (ii) a joint venture with a private partner has been created to manage the
Container Terminal; (iii) Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) for the master
concessions for of the Port of Maputo and the rail network package comprising the
Limpopo rail link, the Goba rail link, the Marshaling yard, and the Railway Workshop
have been signed with different private consortia; and (iv) GOM is in the process of



-5-
developing an alternative option for the concession of the Ressano Garcia railway line
subsequent to the failure of the negotiations with a potential concessionaire.
13.   MoUs for the master concessions were expected to be followed by identification
of staff and operating assets to be taken over by the MOU signatories and signing of
formal concession agreements between CFM and the identified concessionaires.
However, some differences appear to have emerged on the final terms of the concession
agreements. The main reasons for these differences are embedded in the overall
complexity of concessioning the ports and railways in general and the Maputo port-
railway system in particular. The concessioning of the Maputo port-railway system
emerged as particularly complex due to: (a) its connection to three neighboring countries
with different and often conflicting business interests and operating requirements; (b) a
high degree of perceived risk of operating within Mozambique; (c) an uncertainty about
the future of the railway systems in the neighboring countries; and (d) a considerable
difference between the country and the potential bidders with regard to the expectations
from the concession. It is possible that the on-going negotiations with the preferred
bidders may take some more time to finalize or may even fail necessitating
commencement of negotiations with the next preferred bidder, but given the fundamental
viability of the Maputo port-railway system and the commitment and capability of the
borrower, the successful outcome of the process is not in doubt. Further developments in
this regard are proposed to be monitored through the proposed follow-on Railways and
Ports Restructuring Project (RPRP), which has already been negotiated between IDA and
GOM.
14.   Three main interventions, designed to help GOM in achieving the concessioning
objective, comprised: (i) Investment and Advisory Services including a diagnostic study;
(ii) Legal Framework Study; and (iii) Environment Analytical Study.
15.   The Investment and Advisory Services comprised three phases. The first phase,
comprising a diagnostic study of the Maputo port-railway system, led to recommen-
dations for the improvement of the financial and operational performance of the Maputo
port-railway system as well as traffic and financial projections. The second phase,
comprising a privatization options study, led to the adoption of the concessioning option
subsequent to the identification and evaluation of various options. The third phase
comprised investment and advisory services for assisting GOM in implementing the
agreed concessioning option including, inter alia, the preparation of the bidding
documents and tender rules, the evaluation of the proposals received from potential
concessionaires, negotiations with the preferred bidders, and the finalization of the
concession agreements. These services were provided mainly by one consultant but a
number of short-term consultants were also engaged for specific tasks and for providing
second opinions on key issues. Almost all phases of the advisory services were marked
by indifferent and somewhat acrimonious relations between GOM/CFM officials and the
main consultants. As a result, only phase two and part of phase three could be considered
as satisfactory. Even so, the final result turned out to be satisfactory due to
supplementary inputs of short-term consultants.
16.   The Legal Framework Study reviewed the existing legal framework goveming
concessions of ports and railways. The study recommendations were useful in clarifying



- 6-
the legal authority of CFM in awarding concessions and the role of a future regulatory
body. The recommendations of the study could not be implemented as the scope of the
study was restricted to the Maputo Corridor and subsequent discussions favored a
regulatory framework encompassing the whole transport sector, the studies for which are
scheduled to be undertaken under the proposed follow-on Project. The study also
resulted in enhancing the government's awareness of the issues pertaining to the
regulatory framework
17.   Under ODA financing, a consultant carried out a Study on Environmental
Analytical Study. A draft version of the report was submitted to GOM, which CFM(S)
reviewed and commented. The recommendations of the study were expected to lead to
agreements on the liability of the potential concessionaires with regard to environmental
management. However, at Project closing, the consultant had not yet submitted to GOM
the report's final version. In the meantime, GOM had taken the decision of
concessioning all corridor facilities and it became necessary to enlarge the scope of the
environmental study to cover the whole CFM network of ports and railways. A
comprehensive environment audit has since been completed.
C.3 Staff Rationalization
18.   This objective of staff rationalization (as discussed in paragraph 4) was partially
achieved. Staff rationalization was considered critical to the successful concessioning of
the Maputo port-railway system as well as for the improvement of its operational and
financial performance. USAID had agreed to the financing of this component under a
different program to the extent of US$30.0 million. This financing was conditional on
progress being made towards restructuring of CFM and the privatization of railways and
ports. Delay in the decision for concessioning/restructuring and change in USAID
priorities, however, led to cancellation of the grant. Subsequently, after the Government
had taken a firm decision on concessioning, a comprehensive staff rationalization plan for
the redundant work force was prepared and communicated to the Bank. This Plan is
scheduled to be implemented under the proposed RPRP.
C.4 Interim Performance
19.   Diagnostic Study. The study was satisfactorily completed. One of the key tasks
undertaken by the main consultants engaged to provide advisory services was an
operations' diagnostic study leading to recommendations for improvement of CFM's
performance. The diagnostic study covered all rail and port functions - operations,
marketing, maintenance and finance. However, the consultants' recommendations were
not initially well received by CFM. Subsequent discussions did lead to some refinement
and agreement, but CFM remained somewhat skeptical. Even so, some recommendations
were implemented while some others were implemented after appropriate modification
by CFM. As a result, CFM's performance has shown a modest improvement as
illustrated in the table below. It is clear that the study with its analysis, identification of
the causes of poor performance, and recommended actions did make a difference, though
the overall impact was much lower than expected. However, major improvements are
expected only after the entire concessioning process of ports and railways is completed.



- 7-
Item                Unit        1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998(*)
Rail Total Freight Traffic   Million Tons  3.1   2.6   3.1   4.1   3.8    4.1
Rail International Freight   Million Tons  2.2   2.2   2.8   3.6   3.2    3.3
Port Total Freight Traffic   Million Port Tons   6.6   6.5   7.5   8.4   9.0    7.6
Port Transit Freight Traffic Million Port Tons   5.9   6.1   7.1   6.9   7.2    5.6
Operating Ratio         Percentage                            180   176    150
DeficitlRevenue         Percentage                            80    77      50
(*) First 10 months
20. Asset Revaluation. The Project also funded studies to revalue and reconcile CFM
assets in order for CFM to complete the accounts and have them audited. Currently,
there are no outstanding audit reports. However, in spite of substantial efforts and
improvements, the intemal controls still need strengthening. In addition, although not
initially foreseen, the Project financed Technical Assistance (TA) to support CFM's
financial management through the contracting of a long term consultant. Overall, this TA
had a positive impact on CFM performance in particular through an upgrading of
financial and managerial skills and the adoption of new organizational procedures.
21.   Physical Inputs. The Project financed the acquisition of US$ 1.1 million in
equipment for the port container terminal: two forklifts, three trailers, three tugmasters
and diversified spare parts. The commissioning of the equipment in 1996 along with the
transfer of the management to a private sector-led joint venture company had a
remarkable impact on the terminal performance as illustrated by the graph below. The
port container terminal traffic, which reached its lower level of 5,800 TEUS in 1995,
Container Tenninal Traffic
40
C
°030                                               -
20
*10 
0
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Est  Est.
Year
steadily started to increase after 1996. It is currently in the region of 19,000 TEUS and
estimated to increase to 30,000 TEUS by 2000, which will represent more than 400%
increase as compared to 1995 traffic. The value of the equipment acquired under Project
funding was agreed as CFM's minority equity share in the new company.
C.5 Unanticipated Outcomes
22.   The project implementation produced two important unanticipated outcomes:
(i) the building of capacity for managing the concession process; and (ii) the launching of
initiatives for the development of the Maputo Corridor.



- 8 -
23.   The project implementation resulted in an extensive build-up of capacity
regarding the management of the concession process. The Inter-agency committee
comprising representatives of CFM and different Ministries including MCT, took intense
interest in all aspects of the concessioning process, i.e., preparation of bidding
documents, financial modeling and ascertaining the value of concessions, evaluation of
proposals, negotiations, and writing concession agreements. This exposure along with
the study tours, the continuous dialogue with the Bank and the potential concessionaires,
and the monitoring of the various port terminals already operating under concessions,
helped GOM to enhance its knowledge and confidence in dealing with concessioning
issues. At the final stages of the process, GOM was conducting negotiations almost by
itself with the assistance of a few individual consultants and developing its own strategies
for the concessioning of the other port-railway systems. The capacity-building has taken
place to the extent that CFM does not find the need for outside assistance except for some
specific legal and financial aspects. In addition, the experience gained by GOM and
CFM through the Maputo Corridor concessioning process would enable the
concessioning of the other port-railway systems, viz., Nacala and Beira to be
accomplished more speedily and more satisfactorily.
24.   Maputo Corridor Development After the 1994 political change in South Africa,
the Project became the core element in a joint effort of GOM and the Government of
South Africa (GSA) to promote broad regional development along the Maputo Corridor
based on revitalization of the transport links. The Maputo Corridor initiative was
formally enacted in 1995 by a bilateral Agreement for the Co-ordination of the Maputo
Investment Corridorwhich laid down the following major objectives: (i) to implement
key upgrading of existing, and provision of new, transport links within the Corridor in
partnership with the private sector; (ii) to promote establishment of industry and
utilization of the natural resources within the Corridor; (iii) to enhance social
advancement, especially that of disadvantaged groups; and (iv) to ensure environmental
sustainability of Corridor development. The Agreement, followed in 1996 by an
investors' conference, sparked a number of major investment initiatives. Construction
works on a cross-border toll road, linking Witbank (Northern South Africa) to Maputo,
and designed to complement the rail/port rehabilitation, commenced in mid-1998. A
US$1.4 billion aluminum smelter, the biggest private-sector project to date in
Mozambique, was launched as first major industrial activity. Two new power lines being
built will supply electricity from South Africa for aluminum production as well as for the
Maputo metropolitan area. An iron/steel project, designed to be the first major user of
Mozambican gas, is under preparation, with construction start expected for 2001. At the
same time, numerous smaller projects along the corridor are being implemented and/or
on the drawing board, including manufacturing and service establishments, housing,
offices, hotels, leisure facilities, shopping centers and casinos. These smaller
developments are driven by the expectations created by the Corridor initiative, a gradual
improvement of cross-border movements, and the already noticeable economic spill-over
effects of the first large investments. Cross-border cooperation has also commenced at
provincial and municipal levels, and efforts are under way to improve the institutional
and planning framework to facilitate the achievement of integrated development on both
sides of the Corridor.



- 9 -
D. MAJOR FAcToRs AFFECTING THE PROJECT
25.   As indicated in Section C, the outcomes of the Project have been considered
satisfactory in spite of the Project being complex and unsupported by any previous
experience or lessons in privatization/concessioning of railways. Even so, the Project
suffered from delays during the initial period of consensus building, poor response from
the potential bidders, and lengthy negotiations and the closing date had to be extended
once for a year. The factors within the Government's control that affected the Project
adversely include: (a) GOM's cautious approach to concessioning; (b) ineffective
decision-making process in the early stages of project implementation; and
(c) inadequate pre-qualification process. The factors outside the GOM's control that
affected the Project include: (i) the cancellation of the USAID grant; and (ii) inadequacy
and inexperience of the consultants providing advisory services.
D.1 Factors within Government Control
26.   GOM's Cautious Approach. GOM officials were in general cautious in
accepting the idea of privatizing ports and railways as they viewed these as a strategically
important geo-political asset for Mozambique. As a result, GOM officials and the
consultants providing Investment and Financial Advisory Services ended up with very
detailed, and sometimes heated, discussions on the restructuring options. This led to
some delay in decision in favor of concessioning. In addition, limited capacity of GOM
in carrying out procurement activities and preparing terms of reference also contributed
to initial delay in engaging the consultants. It was only through a continuous and
persistent dialogue between the Bank and GOM that a decision in favor of concession
was finally made.
27.   Slow Decision-Making Process. In order to coordinate Project implementation,
GOM established an Inter-agency committee with representatives of CFM and different
Ministries including MTC and MPF. Although the Inter-agency committee met
regularly, it had limited decision-making power. The decision-making process was slow
and the concerned Ministers were not always aware of the discussions and
recommendations. It was only after a high-level committee comprising the Ministers of
Transport and Communications and Planning and Finance was established that the pace
of decision-making process accelerated.
D.2 Factors Outside Government Control
28.   Cancellation of the USAID Grant. Cancellation of the USAID grant affected the
implementation of the Labor Redeployment Strategy Component. USAID had prepared
the Component and agreed to its financing but later cancelled the Grant Agreement on the
grounds that the grant was dormant and the restructuring of the CFM was moving too
slow. As a result, the preparation of the staff rationalization plan could not be
implemented. In the meantime, the Bank agreed to the financing of this activity under
the proposed RPRP. At Project closing, the preparation of the staff rationalization plan
for the redundant work force was completed and its implementation was awaiting the
approval of RPRP.



-10-
29.  Inadequacy of Consultants. The consultants engaged to provide investment and
advisory services did not turn out to be experienced, failed to grasp the complexity of the
assignment, and did not field competent staff for the purpose. During discussions on
their recommendations, they adopted a defensive attitude, which led to a progressively
increasing confrontation between the Inter-agency committee and the consultants. As a
result, the effectiveness of the consultants was adversely affected and the project
implementation was delayed. GOM finally decided not to use the consultants for the
evaluation of the proposals received by them and subsequent negotiations.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABIIrTY
30.   Sustainability is likely. By involving the private sector through long-term
concession agreements or joint venture companies and implementing a staff
rationalization plan the Maputo Corridor System facilities are likely to become
financially self-sustaining. In addition, the RPRP, which has already been negotiated and
is likely to be approved by the Board in early FY2000, will assure continuity in
implementing the concessions of port and railway facilities and complement the
restructuring of CFM. Moreover, the implementation of the regulatory framework to be
processed under RPRP is expected to be instrumental in addressing any post privatization
issues during the long period of the concession.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   The Bank's identification was highly satisfactory. The introduction of the idea of
private participation in the management and operations of ports and railways under
MCRP was in reality a path-breaking concept. Even though this concept has now been
recognized as the real key to the long-term ports and railways, it was not a part of the
Bank Project portfolio in the early 90's. Moreover, the concept was introduced at a time
when both GOM and the donor community were highly skeptical. The potential impact
of this concept is now fully appreciated.
32.   The Bank's preparation and appraisal were satisfactory. Project identification and
preparation started in September 1991, appraisal took place in March 1992, negotiations
were conducted in November 1992 and the Board approved the Credit in February 1993.
About 18 months elapsed between identification and Board presentation, which can be
compared very favorably with the average time spent for Project preparation in Sub-
Saharan Africa of 38 months at that time. From Identification to Effectiveness about 69
staff-weeks were spent which also compares very favorably with the average staff-weeks
spent on Project preparation in Sub-Saharan Africa of 125 staff-weeks at that time.
33.   The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. Regular supervision
missions took place, comprising a total of 69 staff weeks. During supervision the Bank
kept up a close monitoring of the Project and maintained a continuous and persistent
dialogue with the Borrower on the advantages of involving the private sector on the
management of port facilities which was crucial for Govermnent acceptance of the idea
of concessioning the corridor facilities. In addition, when it became clear that GOM
would not be able to provide counterpart funds, the Bank promptly agreed to amend DCA
to increase to 100% the expenditures to be financed.



-41 -
34.   The Project closing date, initially set at December 31, 1997 was extended for one
year to facilitate implementation of the privatization/concession process. The Project was
finally closed on December 31, 1998. At Project closing, cumulative credit
disbursements had only reached 62% of the total credit amount in particular because the
cost of advisory services turned out to be much lower than estimated and the US$2.1
allocated to contingencies was not used. A balance of SDR 2.5 million was cancelled on
March 16,1999.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   The Borrower's perfonnance was satisfactory as regards project identification and
preparation. It participated fully in discussions concerning Project component
identification. Negotiations took place in November 1992. The Borrower met all
conditions of negotiations on time. However, the deadline for Credit effectiveness was
extended once to allow the Borrower to meet the required conditions. Signed on
February 12, 1993, and planned to be effective on May 31, 1993, the Credit became
effective only on September 27, 1993.
36.   The Project was implemented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MTC) with the assistance of an Inter-agency committee. The Borrower's performance
during Project implementation was overall satisfactory. However, Project ownership was
difficult to achieve and implementation was slow in the beginning because GOM and
CFM were initially reluctant to the idea of privatizing corridor facilities. The pace of
implementation improved, nevertheless, after GOM took a firm decision in favor of
concessioning.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.   The outcome of the Project is assessed as satisfactory since both the main and the
subsidiary objectives have been achieved to a large extent. First, the process initiated by
the Government in the divestiture of direct involvement in the management and operation
of transport facilities in the corridor has almost been completed and, subject to
successful negotiations, concessioning of the port of Maputo and the connecting railway
network is likely to be completed by the end of 1999. Secorld even though no progress
was made in the retrenchment of surplus staff due to cancellation of the USAID grant, a
comprehensive staff rationalization plan for the redundant work force was finalized and
formally communicated to the Bank. This plan is scheduled to be implemented under the
proposed RPRP. Third, the performance of the Maputo port and railway system has
improved since 1994 in terms of the traffic carried as well as reduction in the overall
yearly financial losses. Finally, the equipment for the container terminal was also
successfully commissioned, contributing decisively to the elimination of bottlenecks and
to the subsequent privatization. Additionally, there were two key outcomes that were not
fully anticipated at the time of project finalization, viz., building of capacity within CFM
and GOM for managing the concessioning process, and a great boost to the inflow of
capital for the overall development of the Maputo Corridor.



- 12 -
1. FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.  In May 1997, the Bank started discussions with the Borrower on the identification
of the RPRP. The Project was negotiated in May 1999 and is likely to be approved by
the Board in early FY2000. The Project will aim at addressing all issues pertaining to the
port and railway sub-sectors and restructuring CFM in a comprehensive manner. The
main objective of RPRP will be to substantially increase the operating efficiency of the
three major port-rail systems in Mozambique and enable them to increase the market
share of the international freight traffic. This should enable: (i) the concessioned ports
and railways to become financially self-sustaining as a result of substantial increase in
revenues and cost reductions; (ii) CFM to increase its earnings from concession/leasing
fees and pay dividends to GOM after meeting its expenses and its liability for long-term
infrastructure replacement; (iii) the neighboring countries to reduce the surface costs of
their exports and imports as a result of increased use of shorter routes, increased
efficiency of operations, and use of railways in preference to roads; and (iv)
Mozambique to generate more foreign exchange as a result of the neighboring countries
being required to pay in foreign exchange for the use of rail and port facilities in
Mozambique.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.   The following lessons can be learned from the Maputo Corridor Revitalization
(Technical Assistance) Project:
i) Developing genuine ownership of a dramatic shift in business and political
strategy, as in the privatization program in this case, is a complex process.
Although the main objective of the MCRP focused on the divestiture of the
Government's involvement in the management and operation of the corridor
facilities, there was no clear indication of Project ownership when the Project
started to be implemented since most GOM officials were reluctant about
privatization of corridor facilities. The Project proved to be an effective tool in
establishing continuous, persistent, and intensive dialogue between the Bank and
the borrower leading to government's full commitment to the Project objectives.
ii) Committees comprising officials without adequate authority are not helpful in
advancing a process as complex as one involving concessioning. The
establishment of a High-Level Committee comprising ministers having adequate
decision-making power proved critical in accelerating the decision-making
process and in contributing to the achievement of the Project objectives.
iii) While undertaking concessioning or privatization of a complex railway
and/or port system, it would be better to commence the concessioning process
with one or two key components of the system and to use the lessons to improve
the process for the rest of the system. The concessioning of the Maputo Corridor
has offered many experiences that are expected to make the concessioning of the
other Mozambique corridors less time-consuming and more efficient and
effective.



- 13 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
(CREDIT 2454-MOZ)
PART I - STATISTICAL ANNEXES



- 4-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives                                                     Not
Substantial   Partial     Negligible    Applicable
Macro policies                                                                 x
Sector policies                                                                x
Financial objectives                                    _                      x
Institutional development:                     _
Consensus and Comitment Building     x
Concessioning                        x
Staff Redeployement                               x
Physical objectives                     x      .
Poverty reduction                                                              x
Gender issues                                                                  x
Other social objectives                                        _               x
Environmental objectives                                                       x
Public sector management           _                                           x
Private sector development                                                     x
Operation Effciency Improvement                     x
B. Project Sustainability                            Likely  j   Unlikely     Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                                  Highly
Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                      x
Preparation Assistance                                           x
Appraisal                                                        x
Supervision                                                      x
D. Borrower Performance                              Highly
Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                                   x
Preparation Assistance                                           x
Appraisal                                                        x
Supervision                                                      x
E. Assessment of Outcome                Highly   Satisfactory Unsatisfactory    Highly
Satisfactory                          Unsatisfactory
x



- 15-
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Year of
Credit Title                    Purpose                  Approval    Status
Preceding Operations
Beira Transport          To assist the Government to rehabilitate  1989     Completed
Corridor Project         and upgrade the Beira Tansport Corridor
(Cr. 2065-MOZ)           in order to restore its cost efficient
transit funtions.
Following Operations
First Roads and Coastal   To develop the institutional capacity   1992        Active
Shipping Project          of the road sector agencies and
(Cr. 2374-MOZ)            implementing policy reforms in the
trucking and coastal shipping
sub-sectors.
Second Roads and Coastal  To improve road transport by            1994        Active
Shipping Project         rehabilitating priority roads and by
(Cr. 2599-MOZ)            resuming regular maintenance activities
and strengthening the capacity of the
road sector.
Railway and Port          To substantially increase the operating  1999       Under
Restructuring Project     efficiency of the three major port-rail   (scheduled)  preparation
(MZ-PE-42039)             systems in Mozambique and enable them
to increase its share of the available
freight traffic, mostly the export/import
traffic from the neighboring countries.



- 16-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle          Date planned       Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                               September 1991    September 1991
Appraisal                                   March 1992       March 1, 1992
Negotiations                             November 9, 1992 November 16, 1993
Board Presentation                        October 15, 1992   January 19, 1993
Signing                                                    February 12, 1993
Effectiveness                              May 31, 1993    September 27, 1993
Midterm Review
Project Completion                       December 31, 1997 December 31, 1998
Loan/Credit Closing                        June 30, 1998    March 16, 1999
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99
Appraisal
Estimate       0.5    0.6    0.9    1.2    2.8    9.2    9.3
Actual                        0.6    2.5    4.8    5.6    5.8
Actual as %
of Estimate    0%      0%     67%   208%   171%   61%    62%
Date of Final Transaction:  March 16, 1999
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not applicable.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable.



- 17-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as defined at         Status    Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Investment and    To evaluate past performance, resources, Completed CFM is implementing
Financial          and the scope for improvements in                    study
Advisory Services   operating efficiency of the system as well     recommendations
as the means through which improvements
could be achieved.
Environmental     To review the existing standards of    Draft
Analysis          occupational                          Report
health and safety and pollution abatement Completed
governing port and railway operations, to
recommend the standarts to be complied
with and to assess the investment
requirements to comply with.
Labor Redeployment To prepare detailed options for the  Canceled
Strategy          redeployement of surplus staff.
Revaluation of Fixed To revaluate CFM fixed assets     Completed   CFM fixed assets
Assets                                                                revaluated
Legal Framework   To update and streamline the existing  Completed      Study
Study             legal framework governing concessions            recommendations
of public service                                    adopted



-18-
Table 8: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Components        Appraisal Estimates          Actual
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
1 Investment Advisory Services   0.7    5.0    5.7    0.1    4.4    4.5
2 Legal Advisory Services        0.1    0.6    0.7    0.0    0.1        0.1
3 Enviromnental Analysis         0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.1    0.1
4 Labor Redeployment Strategy    0.2    0.4    0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0
5 Port Handling & Communications    0.0    1.2    1.2    0.0    1.1    1.1
Equipment
6 Audits                                                0.0    0.1    0.1
7 Contingencies                  0.2    2.0    2.2                      0.0
Total              1.2    9.3    10.5    0.1    4.6    5.9
Table 9: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source            Appraisal Estimates               Actual
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
IDA Credit               0.5      8.8      9.3      0.1       5.7      5.8
ODA                               0.1      0.1      0.0       0.1      0.1
USAID                     0.2     0.4       0.6      0.0      0.0      0.0
Government               0.5               0.5      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total            1.2      9.3     10.5      0.1      5.8      5.9
Table 10: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



- 19 -
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement
Covenant         Fulfillment         Description of
Section   Type   Status     Date               Covenant                  Comments
3.04 (a)    M     NC                 CFM to submit to IDA on a   Consultants were appointed to
quartly basis, a summary of  undertake comprehensive
administrative, financial and    studies with regard to the
technical measures taken to  performance of CFM South,
remove any impediments to    including the container
carry out its action plan to  terminal. However before the
achieve the projections of  action plans could be
operating performance and  monitored, the container
maintenance activity in the  terminal was concessioned.
container terminal.
3.04 (b)    M     NC                 CFM to submit to the IDA on a  The Borrower was not in
semianual basis, a multi-year   positon to prepare such a plan.
investment plan for the Maputo  As such the terms of reference
Corridor                   of the main diagnostic study
included the preparation of the
investment plan. Since the
Government had no funds, the
decision was taken to
concession the whole Corridor.
3.04 (c)    M     CD                 CFM to submit to IDA on a   CFM accounts were in total
anual basis, an audit report on   disarray, in particular the
CFM's consolidated annual  Capital Assets. The credit
accounts.                  financed consultants to
reconcile and revalue the asset
to enable CFM to complete the
accounts and get them audited.
At the closing date, the audits
accounts for 1994, 1995 and
1996 had been received and
those for 1997 were ready.
3.05     M        C                 The borrower to prepare and
submit to IDA quarterly
progress reports.
3.06     M       NC                 The Borrower to carry out   No need of carrying out a mid-
jointly with IDA a mid-term    term review.
review.
4.01      F       C                 For all withdrals for the Credit  No audit reports are
Account the Borrower to    outstanding.
maintain records and accounts
and have them audited and
submit audit to IDA.
Key to Covenant Type                          Key to Covenant Status
F = Financial                          C = Covenant complied with    CP = Complied with partially
M = Management                         CD = Complied with after delay NC = Not complied with



- 20 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage               Planned              Revised             Actual
Project Cycle      Weeks   US$ '000   Weeks   US$ '000   Weeks   US$ '000
Through Appraisal                                                 40.1      70.8
Appraisal-Board                                                   9.7       23.1
Board-Effectiveness                                               19.2      33.0
Supervision                                                       69.3     186.1
Completion               9.5       18.1       9.5      18.1       9.5       18.1
Total             -         -         -          -       147.8     331.1



- 21 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of      Monthl Number Days  Specialized Staff    Performance Rating              Types of
Project Cycle     Year      of      in          skills       Implement. Developmen    Problems
Persons Field    represented          Status     Objectives
Through Appraisal
Identification
Preparation
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Appraisal
Post-Appraisal
Pre-Board
Pre-effectiveness
Supervision
Supevision 1       Apr-93      1      10  00                        2             1
Supervision 2      Feb-94      2       5   00, FA                   2            1
Supervision 3      Apr-95      1      10  RE                        s            s
Supervision 4      Dec-95      2       9   RE, FA                   S             S
Supervision 5      Jul-96      1       8   RE                       s             s
Supervision 6      Oct-96      2      10  RE, PE                    s            S       PP
Supervision 7      Dec-96      1       8   RE                       s             s      PP
Supervision 8      May-97      2      10  RE, FS                    S            S       PP
Supervision 9      Jul-97      3       8   RE, PE, TE               s             S
Supervision 10     Oct-97      6       8   RE, PE, TE, FA, PS       S            S
Supervision I1     Jan-98      2       9   RE, TE                   s            S
Completion          Nov-98      1      10  CO                        S             S
Key to specialized staff skills
FA = Financial Analyst               00 = Operations Officer                 PE = Port Engineer
PSS = Private Sector Specialist      RE = Railway Engineer                   TE = Transport Econonist
Key to Performance rating
I = Problem Free   2 = Moderate Problems    3 = Major Problems               4 = Major Problems. Corrective
action to be taken
HS = Highly Satisfactory    S = Satisfactory   U  Unsatisfactory             HU = Highly Unsatisfactory
Key to Problems
AF = Availability of Funds           PMP = Project Management Perfoxmance    SP = Study Progress
CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants   PP = Procurement Progress            TP = Training Progress
FP = Financial Performance           TAP = Technical Assistance Progress



- 22 -
ANNEX I
AIDE-MEMOIRES
This section includes two Aide Memoires focusing respectively on: (i) the actions
to be taken by the Borrower in terms of completing their own part of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) (Attachment 1); and (ii) the design of the follow-on Railways
and Ports Restructuring Project to serve as the operational plan for the Maputo Corridor
Revitalization Project (MCRP) (Attachment 2).



- 23 -
ATTACHMENT 1
MOZAM:BIQUE
MAPUTO CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
(Credit 2454-MOZ)
WORLD BANK MISSON - NOVEMBER 1998
AIDE MEMOIRE
A World Bank mission comprising Gualberto Lima-Campos, consultant, was in
Maputo from November 16 to 24 to collect information for the preparation of the Maputo
Corridor Revitalization (Technical Assistance) Project (Credit 2454-MOZ)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission would like to thank the
Government for their cordial reception and assistance. A list of people met is attached.
Most of the necessary economic/financial data and institutional information
regarding project implementation and operation results were collected. Furthermore, as
needed, additional information would eventually be required to complete the report.
The Bank expects to receive the Borrower's own evaluation report on the project
by February 28, 1999. This report will be added unedited to the ICR. If the report is
longer than ten pages, a summary should be attached. The report should include: an
assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation experience;
an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be
relevant in the future; and an evaluation of the performance of the Bank and any co-
financiers during the evolution and implementation of the project.
In addition, the evaluation report prepared by the Bank, consisting of an analytical
assessment and statistical tables, will be sent to the Borrower for comments, if any. The
Bank will then consider to incorporate these comments.
The final ICR, which will include the Bank's and the Borrower's contributions,
will be published before June 30, 1999 and will be sent to the Borrower and the
concerned donors.
Maputo, November 24, 1999
Gualberto Lima-Campos



- 24-
LIST OF PERSONS MET
Anibal Portimao     Secretario Geral, Ministerio dos Tranportes e Comunicacoes
Oscar Diniz         Administrador para a Area Financeira, CFM
Anibal Laice        Director de Engenharia e Aprovisionamento, CFM
Alberto Elias       Chefe Gabinete de Projectos, CFM
Arun Pai            Acessor Financeiro, CFM
Gabriela Filipe     Departamento de Financas, CFM
Delfmo Aleluia      Departamento de Arquitetura e Planeamento Fisico, CFM
David Cotty         Director, Mozambique Intemational Port Services
Anna Bewes          ODA
Luis Santos         USAID



- 25 -
ATTACHMENT 2
MOZAMBIQUE
RAIL AND PORT RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (RPRP)
PRE-APPRAISAL MISSION
DECEMBER 1998
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.   This Aide-Memoire summarizes the principal findings, conclusions, and
agreements arrived at during a comprehensive discussion held between December 7 to
10, 1998 at the World Bank headquarters between a Mozambican delegation led by
Mr. Rui Fonseca, the President and Chairman of CFM and the World Bank team led by
Mr. Yash Pal Kedia (Team Leader/Sr. Railway Engineer). The members of the
Mozambican delegation and the World Bank team are listed atAppendix 1.
2.   The main objective of the discussion was to review the progress of preparation of
RPRP, reconfirm the timing for appraisal (January 1999), and identify actions still to be
taken prior to appraisal. The discussions revealed that the various components of the
Project have been prepared and the Project is ready for appraisal. The few tasks that
remain to be completed were identified during the discussions and are expected to be
completed by the proposed date of appraisal, i.e., January 18, 1999. The following
paragraphs indicate the current status of preparation, the actions to be taken prior to
appraisal, and the level and type of assistance required for the various Project
components.
Concessioning of Port-Rail Systems
3.   Current Status. The current status of concessioning of the various port and rail
facilities is as follows:
a) For CFM (S), the Government of Mozambique (GOM) has signed
Memoranda of Understanding with (i) Consorcio 2000 for the concession of
the Limpopo and Goba rail links, Marshaling yard, and the workshop; and
(ii) Maputo Harbour Consortium for the master concession of the port of
Maputo and the coal terminal at Matola. Negotiations with Transnet for the
concession of the Ressano-Garcia rail link might be canceled on the basis of
the last offer made by Transnet, which was considered unsatisfactory. In case
of failure and to remedy the situation, CFM has already started with
developing an alternative option.
b) For CFM (N), a proposal for the port of Nacala and the linking rail system
was submitted by a consortium of rail and port business groups on a sole
source basis in May 1998, and after evaluation the first round of negotiations



- 26-
was conducted in November 1998. The second round of negotiations is
scheduled for January 20, 1999.
c) For CFM (C), concessions have been awarded for the operations and
management of the container and general cargo terminals, as also a cold
storage terminal. Additionally, ajoint venture between CFM and private
partners has been established to develop a grain handling terminal. CFM has
approached a number of private partners with respect to concessioning of the
marine services. So far, the interest demonstrated has not been sufficient to
proceed with either a competitive bid or a sole source contract.
d) CFM's Chairman and President informed the Bank that CFM intends to
concession the Machipanda line together with the Sena Line, in order to
facilitate the mobilization of capital for rehabilitation of the latter. Since the
plans for the different commercial projects linked to Sena are quite advanced,
preparation of the Machipanda/Sena concessioning project is being pursued
actively and it is planned as a target to start re-construction of Sena line by
June 1999.
4.  Actions prior to Appraisal. It was agreed that CFM will:
a) Prepare a plan and time schedule of how to proceed with the concessioning of
the Ressano Garcia line.
b) Prepare a contingency plan and time schedule for the case the current
negotiations on the concession of the Nacala port/rail system cannot be
concluded successfully.
c) Prepare a plan and time schedule for concessioning of the Machipanda/Sena
rail lines and the Beira marine services. Should CFM wish the Bank's support
for investments in the Machipanda/Sena lines, Cuamba-Lichinga line etc.,
these would be considered in the context of a separate project.
d) The delegation expressed the concern related to key structural reforms
suggested under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative for
concluding the concessioning of the ports and railways by June 1999. The
delegation expressed that, while CFM is actively pursuing the process of
concessioning, given the complexity of the concessioning process, CFM is not
in a position to commit itself to sign all the MOUs and concession agreements
by June 30, 1999. In view of this concem, it was agreed that the Bank team
will intemally clarify the interpretration of the monitoring indicators with
regard to the concessioning of CFM ports and railways as indicated under the
HIPC Initiative.
5. Assistance under the Project. A sum of US$1.0 million has already been allocated
under PPF.



- 27-
Staff Rationalization
6,   Current Status. CFM has a permanent staff strength of 18,818 of which 15,248
have joined before 1.1.1989 and 3,570 after 1.1.89. Further, there are 3,052 staff in
casual permanent category. The estimated staff requirements are 8,171 thus leaving a
surplus of 13,699. Two types of compensation packages have been designed and already
agreed with the Unions - one for staff joining before 1.1.89, and the second for staff
joining thereafter.
a) Packagesforstaffjoiningbefore 1.1.89
*  Normal retirement cases as of 31.12.98 -ffmancial incentive of 6
months salary.
* Early retirement cases - (i) financial incentive of 6 months salary, and
(ii) complementary pension equal to difference between pension
payable by MPF and pension calculated as per formula presented by
CFM. In case the pension fund is not established in time, the
complementary pension would be paid either as lump sum or in
installments not exceeding the project implementation period.
b) Packages for staffjoining after 1.1.89, andfor casualpermanent staff
financial incentive of 6 months salary; and
D six months salary for every two years service.
c) Alternate package
a For staff choosing not to opt for the designated packages, a second
alternative would be offered, which is payment of 80% of the last
salary drawn up to a maximum of 5 years. The monthly payment
would be made until either (i) he/she gets a job, or (ii) he/she is offered
a job by CFM.
d) Staff availing of above packages would not be re-employed by CFM
7.   Actions prior to Appraisal
a) Distribution of 13,699 surplus staff under normal retirement, early retirement
and compensation categories, and computation of respective monetary
amounts of packages.
b) Clarification from MPF on the commitment to pay any difference in pension
derived from CFM salaries.
c) Clear understanding on discount rate and mortality tables proposed to be
utilized to compute present value of pension if lump sum or installment
payments are chosen.



-28-
8.  Assistance under the Project. While the normal pension obligations would be
assumed by the MPF, the extra benefits listed above would be covered under the project.
The current estimate for the total amount of these packages - on a NPV basis - is US$40
million.
Pension Fund
9. Current Status. The consultant has presented a draft report, which does not address
the main issues of the design of the pension fund, and the initial amount required to start
the fund.
10. Actions prior to Appraisal. The contracted consultant should commit to complete
the assignment as described in the terms of reference by January 8, 1999.
11. Assistance under the Project. Any assistance required would depend on the
conclusions of the consultant's assignment. For the surplus staff, the option of a lump
sum payment or payments in several installments over the project period would be
considered if the pension fund is not established in time. For existing staff, the current
contributions to the MPF state pension scheme would continue to be deducted until the
pension fund is established or a different scheme implemented.
Staff, Retrenchment, Redeployment and Social Mitigation
12. Current Status. The following is envisaged:
a) A technical unit in CFM in charge of all aspects of staff retrenchment and
redeployment, such as counseling, employment services, training, small
enterprise promotion, agriculture and extension services assistance. The unit
would comprise of a unit head, a social scientist, a psychologist, 2 economists,
2 engineers, and one administrative accountant, and a few field counselors.
The unit is envisaged for a period of 5 years, and initial contracts would be for
2 years for the key members.
b) Pilot projects comprising of 10-15 staff would be designed and initiated, and
the investment financed on a credit basis up to a maximum of US$100,000 per
project. The priority areas for these projects are expected to be in agriculture,
small-scale agro-industry, and small-scale construction units.
c) Tailor-made programs for training would need to be designed. Appropriate
options would be determined including the use of existing training institutions
in Mozambique and distance learning.
13. Actions prior to Appraisal
a) Proposal for selection of consultants to:
design and set up technical unit and prepare job descriptions for its
members; and



- 29-
define criteria for preparation and appraisal of pilot projects, as also a
supervision and monitoring system.
b) The consultant report on social mitigation should be completed by mid-
December 1998.
14. Assistance under the Project
a) The costs of the technical unit would be financed under the project and are
estimated at US$2.5 million. This would include the costs of personnel, as
well as of equipment.
b) An amount of US$2.0 million would be allocated for the proposed pilot
projects, though initially its use would be limited to US$0.5 million, the
remainder to be drawn after review of the experience of the first schemes.
c) The training component has been estimated at US$1.5 million and would
cover the costs of course fees, distance learning etc.
d) The assistance under the project for social mitigation would be defined based
on the consultant report and is estimated at US$0.5 million.
Corporate Restructuring
15. Current Status. The strategy to be followed by CFM has already been agreed with
the MPF and the MTC. Basically, minority stakeholdings in emerging business activities
to be detained by CFM, will be managed separately under a "holding concept" through a
new company, CFM, SA. Still to be incorporated. CFM, EP, in turn, will be the
dominant shareholder in CFM, SA, (80%) with the remaining equity to be subscribed by
the future staff pension fund.
16. Actions prior to Appraisal. Terms of reference for a study on CFM's corporate
restructuring, including, inter alia: (i) review of the legal framework for the new role of
CFM, EP as the conceding authority and for CFM, SA as a shareholder in the
concessionaire companies; (ii) preparation of adjustments, if required, on the statutes of
CFM, EP; (iii) preparation of the articles of association for CFM, SA; and (iv) definition
of the internal organization, structure and regulations for CFM, EP and CFM, SA.
17. Assistance under the Project. A study would be financed under the proposed
project as per the above Terms of Reference. The implementation of the new
organizational framework would also be assisted under the proposed RPRP through TA,
equipment, and dissemination activities. An estimated US$2.0 million would be
allocated under the project.
Transport Policy and MTC Structure
18. Current Status. GOM's transport policy was lastly revised in 1996. Although it
was recognized that no major policy changes are required to accommodate the proposed



- 30-
RPRP, some adjustments at the margin may be deemed necessary to reflect the changing
role of the State in the sector. This will reflect the new role of Government agencies in
regulating the provision of transport services and in conceding infrastructure facilities.
19. Actions prior to Appraisal. To the above extent, terms of reference for a review of
the transport policy framework and MTC's structure will be prepared. These will cover,
inter alia: (i) review of the new framework for transport policy; (ii) definition of the new
functions of MTC to discharge its new role; (iii) assessment of MTC's new
organizational structure vs. this changing role; (iv) staffing requirements, taking into
account the GOM's civil service reform program; and (v) follow-up of legal and
institutional arrangements for concessions, including the preparation of model(s) for
concession agreement(s)/contract(s).
20. Assistance under the Project. An amount of US$1.0 million would be provided
under the Project to finance a study as per the above TOR, and to implement the accepted
findings and recommendations.
Regulatory Framework
21. Current Status. Technical regulation functions would be discharged by CFM, EP,
as part of its functions as the conceding authority. In addition, CFM, EP will monitor the
compliance of regulatory clauses (such as environment safety of operations, and
infrastructure condition) as built-in the concession agreements. Regulatory functions
related to competition, protection of consumer interests, promotion of a sound business
environment, settlement of disputes, and institutional facilitation would be vested with a
new independent Regulatory Unit under MTC.
22. Actions prior to Appraisal. TOR would be prepared for a study covering the: (i)
scope, functions, and instruments for the regulatory framework; (ii) sectoral coverage of
the new Regulatory Unit; (iii) staffing, internal organization, costs and financing
mechanisms for the Unit(s); and (iv) required draft legislation.
23. Assistance under the Project. US$1.0 million would be provided under the project
to finance the study as per TOR above, and to finance equipment and any required
technical cooperation requirements for the implementation of the Unit(s) and/or its
operation during the start-up period.
Tertiary Ports
24. Current Status. Under the ROCS 1 project, IDA financing was provided for
investments in small ports, to be undertaken as part of their concessioning to private
operators. Since the closing date of the ROCS 1 project is June 30, 1999, this component
will be included and followed under the proposed RPRP. The component will include
the ports of Mocimboa da Praia, Pebane, and Macuse, for which the concession
agreements have already been negotiated. It would also include the port of Angoche for
which the concession agreement still remains to be prepared. As part of the concession
agreements for these four ports, MTC is committed to undertake a total investment of
US$8.5 million, as estimated under the ROCS 1.



- 31 -
25. Actions prior to Appraisal. For the four ports indicated above, MTC would review
the available investment estimates, undertake environmental assessment, and review the
economic and financial analysis if so warranted. IDA-financing would be used under the
PPF for the proposed RPRP for the environmental assessments and for the economic and
financial analysis if so deemed necessary. Furthermore, TOR for a study on the
revitalization of the port of Inhambane will be prepared.
26. Assistance under the Project. Finance would be provided under the proposed
project for investments in the ports of Mocimboa da Praia, Pebane, Macuse, and
Angoche. Physical investments in these ports will be confirmed during appraisal. The
revitalization study for the Inhambane Port, estimated at US$0.5 million, will also be
financed under the Project.
Advisory Services for the Concessioning of Airports
27. Current Status. The GOM has decided to admit private participation in the
provision and management of airport infrastructure and related services. To this extent,
ongoing initiatives include the leasing of selected operating facilities, the creation of a
regulatory authority (INAC), and the decision to concede main airport infrastructure.
28. Action prior to Appraisal. Terms of Reference will be prepared for the provision of
advisory services to enable the concession to the private sector of infrastructure facilities
in main airports. These services will include: (i) selection of airports capable of
attracting private participation; (ii) preparation of a financial model to assess potential net
cash-flow generating capabilities; (iii) assessment of viability of private investor's
involvement, and of income accruing to the State from concession fees; (iv)
recommendation as to the structure and level of concession fees; (v) preparation of
concession and other bidding documents; and (vi) assistance to the bidding process, and
advise in the evaluation of proposals and in the selection of preferred bidder.
29. Assistance under the Project. Finance would be provided under the proposed
RPRP for the consultant services as per the above TOR. An amount of US$1.0 million
will be confirmed during appraisal.
Economic and Financial Analysis
30. Current status. The NEL consultants made a presentation on their draft final report
and recommendations. Overall, the Consultants' findings were considered acceptable
based on the assumptions made at this stage, e.g., full debt restructuring, channeling of
concession fees and dividends to CFM, and subsequent distribution of a portion to a
infrastructure fund as required. Comments offered at this stage on the economic and
financial analysis will be incorporated in the final version of the report to be finalized by
December 18, 1998.



- 32 -
Project Implementation Plan
31. Current Status. The proposed Project is scheduled to be implemented over a period
of five years. Most components such as staff rationalization, CFM restructuring, setting
up of regulatory framework, the studies pertaining to the Ministry structure are expected
to be completed over a period of three years. However, the Project component pertaining
to staff counseling, redeployment, and retraining is likely to take at least five years due to
the large number of staff involved and the need to monitor and mitigate any possible
adverse social impact. A detailed project implementation plan will now be prepared.
32. Actions prior to Appraisal. It was agreed that CFM will prepare a detailed PIP
using an appropriate software and with the assistance of short-term consultants, if
required using PPF funds.
Procurement Plan
33. Actions prior to Appraisal. It was agreed that CFM will prepare a detailed
Procurement Plan using an appropriate software and with the assistance of short-term
consultants, if required using PPF funds. The Procurement Plan will, inter alia, (i)
identify all items of goods and services, studies, and training; (ii) the method of
procurement; (iii) the timing of procurement; and (iv) a timetable for completing all the
steps involved in a procurement process including issue of no objections by the Bank.
Timetable for Appraisal and Board Presentation
34. The appraisal of the proposed RPRP is tentatively scheduled to commence on
January 18, 1999. However, it was pointed out by the Mozambican delegation that on its
return, the suitability of this date will be confirmed to the Bank. Subject to successful
appraisal, negotiations can be scheduled to commence March 8, 1999.



- 33 -
35. Project Profile and Cost. An indicative project cost table is indicated below:
Summary of Project Profile
Approximate Cost without Contingency
Staff       Equipment/
Item         Consultancy      Training     Redundancy        Works        Total
Concessioning         1.0                                                       -1.0
Staff                                               40.0                        40.0
Rationalization
Pension Fund     _
Staff                 6.5                                                        6.5
Redeployment &
Social Mitigation
Corporate             1.0             0.5                            0.5         2.0
Restucturing
Transport Policy      1.0                                                        1.0
& MTC Structure
Regulatory            1.0                                                        1.0
Reform
Teriary Ports         0.5                                            8.5         9.0
Concessioning of      1.0                                                        1.0
Airports
Sub-Total            12.0             0.5           40.0             9.0         61.5
Contingencies                                                                    8.5
Total              70.0
Rui Fonseca                                         Yash Pal Kedia
President and Chairman of the Board                 Team Leader
CFM                                                 World Bank
December 11, 1998



- 34 -
APPENDIX 1
LIST OF ATTENDEES
Mozambique Delegation
Messrs. Rui Fonseca, President/Chairman of the Board of CFM
A. Elias, Executive Director, Privatization Unit, CFM
S.M. Bhat, Adviser, CFM Board
Miguel Guebuza, Manager, CFM
Estevao Uamusse, Ministry of Transport and Communications
Augusto B. Sumburane, Ministry of Planning and Finance
Arun Pai, Adviser, CFM
World Bank Team
Messrs./Mmes.: Yash P. Kedia, Team Leader/Sr. Railway Engineer
Pedro Geraldes, Principal Transport Specialist
Stephan von Klaudy, Principal Financial Specialist
Sunita Kikeri, Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist
Philippe de Naurois, Consultant
Josiane Luchmun, Team Assistant



- 35-
ANNEX 2
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The unedited Borrower's contribution to the ICR is attached. However, the total
amount of the Credit utilized was only US$5.9 million and not US$7.0 million as
mentioned in the attached Borrower's report. Out of the US$5.9 million, about US$3.0
million was spent on core advisory services for the concessioning proccess.



- 36-
ANNEX 2
REPUBUCA DE M0QAMSQUE
MINISTERIO DOS TRANSPORTES E COMUNICAC6ES
I O                                 ror Lhe aniount of ftunds eapnt in the
o\ hole process of the Maputo Coffidor Revitalization Project (close to USS smillionJ, the
value for money obtained has been poor. It is generally expected when there is an open
tender, advenised widely in national, regional papers and in international journals, the
response would be strong both in terms of the number of bids and the credentials of the
bid&lh:s. Only vhan Lhe repsonse is good, could ono expeo competitive bids. The
response being far below expectations, the en d result has not weexn =r&uuur&ing both in
terms of money and time.
2.0                                          The performance of the rrain
consultants, Paribas & Partners, has been extremely poor especially in areas such as
marketing of the tender, preparad6iniof the financial model.
30 o                                         The two main benefits of the process
har\e been (a) the development of the legal side of the bidding procesis Including tender
rules etc. and (b) preparation of Transaction documents such as Concession Agreement,
Articles of Association.
4.0 (                                                     It is genetally assumed
tlzah ifthere is an open tender prosps, the ten4er proces4 is transparent. However This
assumption would be valid, only when the response to the tedd.r is strong and there is a
strong competition. Because of ol'Ipitcipatioh. tho bidderisErVie not approached the
issue with the required seriousness.Instead it appears, the bidaervare taking advantage of
the poor response and appearto havdehidden agendas, They havefound any nurnber of
(fiimsr) reasons to derail the process. What is required is a clear set of rules, a clear set of
selection procedures td choose ihernght pOztner.
5,0                                 The tendering process does not bring mnore
transparency per se. Transparency is buit up through an ethical and professional
approach in carefilly selecting a strategic partnership enabling the creation of corporate
joint ventures in the different concessions based on the followi*n  critena:



- 37-
a) internationally recognized large experience and know-how in transport, logistics
and distribution industry;
b) capacity and ability to improve and substantially increase trade flows through the
Mozambican corridors and ports; this means tangible additional values are
accrued to what the company has;
c) strong financial capability to implement new investments needed as well as to
accurately process due maintenance to international standards,
d) capacity to achieve high level of returns; this means more payments Lo CFM, and
*) global networking with ocean going trade and transport industry as a whole.
Further tendering process in a business like approach is a costly and time-
consuming exercise and no assurances are given for a better result than through
direct negotiations done by a professional institution.






MAP SECTION






coo~~uos         I                    TANZANIA
fWTSWoOuu2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  /                           I~~~~~-d                     A ~!
LwAaoND  12\                                                                               l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2--
AgOIO 0rA                                                                                           h>ZCAB
32-                                                                           *
MALAWI
ZAMBIA                  J                                                                                                 7U 1  -TU
1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
,'A000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MCBR
A1              Cr-mA A                              [T
-ARA      *J            bo                \ NABIUMA
'8'                                                                                MAPUTO CORRIDOR -
CAF~ ~ ~~~EITLIATONPOJCT6IR
5"                 Ir~~~~~~~~~~~ai od
/   ~~~~                                   Rail corridors:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NG
Provncecaptal
P Natinlcaia
SOUTH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
6-   IAJAN-ZroineAoudaie
AFRICA  1MAPUMAPTOTORRDO
Gauuiu\ ~~  MACTo H                                                   M     in oadTs
?~~~C..',  [  Murrounune ~ ~    ~        ~        ~       Ral oridrs
-26             Nonruocho~~~~~M'S A~~ MAPT                                       O  o'O peratiby10 Oonal0 SSnTO  ok5O
Curre,o dolSp?  nf  nonotopeuWo/ Bo roaponal
I.   - ~      ~         V
32   'r-   SOUTH AFRICA ~~~~~~~~U'HAL-' <o                                         0                       0



