CREDIT NUMBER 2454 NOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Maputo Corridor Revitalization Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                          , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2454 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    F/                      , 1993, between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
1HEREAS (B) the Association has received a Letter of Policy
dated November 30, 1992 for CFM,E.E. (the Letter of Policy)
indicating the Borrower's commitment to an action plan and a policy
program to take appropriate steps aimed at the commercialization and
institutional reorganization of CFM,E.E., including the creation of
a sound operating framework for the involvement of the private
sector;
WHEREAS (C) the Borrower intends to contract from Overseas
Development Agency (ODA) a grant (the ODA Grant) in an amount
equivalent to $100,000 (one hundred thousand dollars) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the ODA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and ODA;
WHEREAS (D) the Borrower intends to contract from United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) a grant (the
USAID Grant) in an amount equivalent to $600,000 (six hundred
thousand dollars) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the USAID Grant Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and USAIDp and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated


﻿-2-
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "CFM,E.E." means Empresa Nacional de Portos e Caminhos
de Ferro de MogambiquesE.E., the state-owned enterprise of the
Borrower responsible for ports and railways, established and
operating pursuant to its Statutes approved by Decree No. 6/89 dated
May 11, 1989, issued by the Council of Ministers of the Borrower.
All references to CFM,E.E. included in this Agreement shall be
deemed to refer to CFM,E.E.'s legal successor to be established by
the Borrower pursuant to Law No. 17/91 dated August 3, 1991;
(b)   "CFM (S)" means CFM Sul, the southern operating division
of CFM,E.E.;
(c)   "MTCI means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and
Communications;
(d)   "Maputo Corridor" means the port and railways facilities
currently operated by CFM (S);
(e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and
CFM,E.E. pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g)   "Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and
CFM,E.E. pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any
schedules to the Administration Agreement;
(h)   "Project  Preparation   Advance"  means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower


﻿-3-
pursuant to a Letter of Agreement dated November 30, 1992 and
countersigned by the Borrower on December 7, 1992; and
(i) "fiscal year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to six million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount oL the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not


﻿-4-
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 1, 2003 and ending January 1, 2033. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 1, 2013 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the  EY,ecutive  Directors  of  the  Association  and   after  due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,


﻿-5-
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall cause CFM,E.E. to carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, engineering and technical practices; shall
take or cause to be taken all such action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable CFM,E.E. to carry out the Project, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with the carrying out the Project by CFM,E.E..
(b)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Credit:
(i)   relend to CFM,E.E. an amount equivalent to
one million sixty thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 1,060,000) under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and
CFM,E.E., under terms and conditions which shall


﻿-6-
have been approved by the Association and which
shall  include, -inter   alia,   the  following
provisions: (A) a fixed rate of interest of 9%
(nine percent); (B) a term of 15 (fifteen) years
including a 5 (five) years' grace period and; (C)
the foreign exchange risk to be borne by
CFM,E.E.; and
(ii)   transfer to CFM,E.E., an amount equivalent to
five million five hundred and forty thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,540,000) under an
Administration Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CFM,E.E., under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association and which shall include, inter
alia, the legal and financial terms of the
Borrower's equity participation in CFM,E.E.;
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Administration Agreement,
respectively, in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or the Administration Agreement, respectively, or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by CFM,E.E..
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause CFM,E.E. to submit to
the Association, for its review and comments throughout Project
implementation:
(a)   on a quarterly basis, a summary of administrative,
financial and technical measures taken by CFM,E.E., from


﻿-7-
FY 1992, to remove any impediments to carry out its
action plan to achieve the projections of CFM,E.E.'s
operating performance and maintenance activity in its
container terminals financed under the Project;
(b)   on a semiannual basis, a multi-year investment plan for
the Maputo Corridor as follows:
(i)   by not later than September 15, a draft version
of said plan;
(ii) by not later than October 15, the draft plan
shall be jointly reviewed with the Association
and other donor agencies active on the Maputo
Corridor;
(iii) by not later than November 1, the final version
of   the   plan,   taking   into   account   the
recommendations of said review; and
(iv) by not later than April 15, a progress report
detailing measures taken to implement the multi-
year investment plan.
(c)   on an annual basis, but not later than six months after
the end of CFM,E.E.'s fiscal year, an audit report
carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, on CFM,E.E. 's consolidated annual accounts,
including those of CFM(S).
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, through MTC, during Project
implementation, prepare and submit to the Association quarterly
progress reports including, inter alia, progress in the procurement
of goods and the performance of consultants' services financed under
the Project in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall carry out and shall cause
CFM,E.E. to carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than
ten months after the Effective Date, a mid-term review of the
progress made in carrying out the Project.
(b)   The review shall cover, inter alia, -the following: (i)
implementation of measures designed to strengthen the financial
reporting, monitoring, accounting and auditing capabilities of


﻿CFM,E.E.; (ii) recommendations arising out of the completion of the
studies described under Part A.1 of the Project; (iii) exchange of
information among staff responsible for Project implementation and
coordination; (iv) identification of implementation issues and
proposed solutions; (v) discussion and coordination of all other
related technical assistance financed by other donor agencies and
ccfinanciers; (vi) discussion and agreement on an action plan and
timetable to revitalize CFM(S); and (vii) progress in the
implementation of CFM,E.E.'s multi-year investment plan referred to
under Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement.
(c)   Not later than one month prior to such mid-term review,
the Borrower shall, through MTC, and jointly with CFM,E.E., furnish
to the Association, for its review and comments, a report in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an
evaluation of the following: (i) progress achieved in complying with
Project implementation pursuant to the terms of this Agreement,
detailing any privatization transaction completed; and (ii) findings
and recommendations resulting from the studies, described under Part
A.1 of the Project, specifying the bases for the decision taken by
the Borrower on a global strategy for the revitalization of CFM(S).
(d)   Promptly after completing such mid-term review, the
Borrower and CFM,E.E. shall carry out those recommendations arising
out of said review, as agreed among the Borrower, CFM,E.E. and the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditurea with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall and shall cause
CFM,E.E. to:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that    all  records  (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in


﻿-9-
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii) enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall and shall cause CFM,E.E. to:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with    appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors   as  to  whether   the   statement  of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with   the  procedures   and  internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall and shall cause CFM,E.E. to:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until    at  least one year after     the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special


﻿- 10 -
Account was made, all records (contracts, orde-J-,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure   that  such   records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   that an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Borrower will be able to carry out
the action plan policies described in the Letter of Policy;
(b)   the Borrower or CFM,E.E. shall have failed to perform
any of their respective obligations under this Agreement;
(c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Borrower
or CFM,E.E. will be able to perform their respective obligations
under this Agreement;
(d)   the Borrower or CFM,E.E. shall have failed to perform
any of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(e)   the Borrower or CFM,E.E. shall have failed to perform
any of their respective obligations under the Administration
Agreement;


﻿- 11 -
(f)   Decree No. 6/89 dated May 11, 1989, as amended in
accordance with the provisions of Law No. 17/91 of August 3, 1991,
or any other legislation governing the operations of CFM,E.E. shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of CFM,E.E. to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement; and
(g)   the Borrower or any other authorit%7 having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CFM,E.E. or for the suspension of its operations or any
substantial portion thereof.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (f) or (g) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of thirty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower or CFM,E.E., respectively; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CFM,E.E.;
(b)   that the Administration Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CFM,E.E.; and
(c)   that the Borrower has submitted to the Association
satisfactory reports issued by independent auditors on the financial
performance of CFM,E.E. for its fiscal years 1989, 1990 and 1991.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿- 12 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that this Agreement has been duly ratified by the
Borrower's Council of Ministers and is legally binding upon the
Borrower, in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CFM,E.E. and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CFM,E.E. in accordance with its terms;
and
(c)   that  the Administration   Agreement has been    duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CFM,E.E. and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CFM,E.E. in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Praga da Marinha Popular
P.O. Box 272
Maputo
Telex:
6632


﻿- 13 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                          248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.                  82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          L   CJJ       <k.     9    c
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Consultants' services                     95%
under:
(a) Part A.1 of the      3,260,000
Project;
(b) Part A.2 of the        210,000
Project;
(c) Part A.3 of the      1,060,000
Project; and
(d) Part B of the          500,000
Project
(2)   Equipment                  990,000        100%
(3)   Refunding of Project       210,000        Amount due pur-
Preparation Advance                       suant to Section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(4)   Unallocated                370,000
TOTAL               6,600,000


﻿- 15 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b)   Category (1)(c) unless the Association has received a
satisfactory global strategy approved by the Borrower to restructure
CFM(S), designed on the basis of the recommendations arising out of
the studies referred to under Part A.1 of the Project; and
(c)   Category (2) unless the Association has received from
CFM,,E.E. a satisfactory report containing the economic and financial
justifications for prioritized equipment items to be financed under
the Project.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen CFM,E.E.'s
investment, financial, legal, technical and managerial capabilities
necessary to: (a) revitalize the Maputo Corridor; (b) attract
foreign investment; and (c) encourage private sector participation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Investment Advisory Services
1.    Carrying out investigative and analytical studies of CFN(S)
to:
(a)   evaluate past performance, resources and means to
improve said performance;
(b)   identify market forces influencing trends and the
routing of trade flows;
(c)   define market prospects and structure through a detailed
survey identifying any regulatory obstacles;
(d)   evaluate  commercial  strategies  identifying short-,
medium- and long-term action plans and investment requirements;
(e)   evaluate   managerial   and  technical   capabilities,
indicating staffing requirements and costs;
(f)   evaluate financial performance potential, identifying
possible options for organizational structures; and
(g)   evaluate feasible privatization options.
2.    Provision of financial advisory services to the Borrower and
CFM,E.E. to assist in the structuring and negotiation of
transactions for the involvement of the private sector in the
provision of services on the Maputo Corridor.


﻿- 17 -
3.    Provision of investment advisory and investment promotion
services subsequent to the completion of Part A.1 above to assist
the Borrower and CFM,E.E. with the following:
(a)   design of options for the involvement of the private
sector in provision of services in the Maputo Corridor;
(b)   preparation of investment solicitation documentation,
including, inter alia, the specification of the obligations of
CFM,E.E., CFM(S) and the Borrower; and
(c)   promotion and negotiation of the selected privatization
option.
Part B:     Legal Advisory Services
1.    Strengthening of the Borrower's legal capabilities to review,
streamline and update the legal and regulatory framework governing:
(a) concessions of public services; (b) labor redeployment; and (c)
commercial and administrative legal issues raised by the selected
option to involve the private sector in the provision of services on
the Maputo Corridor.
2.    Provision of legal advisory     services to assist in     the
negotiation of new privatization transactions.
Part C:     Environmental Analysis Services
Carrying out a study to:
(a)   review existing standards of occupational health and
safety and pollution abatement governing port and railways
operations;
(b)   assess safety of operating and maintenance facilities;
(c)   recommend standards for environmental protection in the
ports and on the railways;
(d)   assess need for changes to present operating and safety
procedures;
(e)   assess investment requirements to comply with minimum
standards of safety and environmental protection;


﻿- 18 -
(f)   assess   environmental   issues  related   to   future
maintenance dredging and quay expansion; and
(g)   assess and   recommend burden-sharing   and  liability
responsibilities.
Part D:     Labor Redeployment Program
Design and implementation of a retrenchment and redeployment
program for CFM,E.E..
Part E:     Provision of Equipment
1.    Acquisition of key port handling equipment for the Port of
Maputo.
2.    Upgrading the communications' capabilities of CFM(S) through
the acquisition of inter alia facsimile receivers, microcomputers,
and related software.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower, may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent to $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to


﻿20 -
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and CFM,E.E. in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower and CFM,E.E. shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the ter "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 22 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3  of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special.. Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount of   the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 23 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such ceposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


