El 603
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(EMSP)
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
(EMP)
FOR THE
CONSTRUCTION
OF THE
NEW MINISTRY OF FINANCE BUILDING



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.     Project Description                                               .3
2.     Area of Influence                                                  ..4
3.     Brief Description of World Bank Safeguards Policies                -1l
4.     Environmental Management Plan for the construction of the
new Ministry of Finance Building
2/15



1.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
The project development objective is to strengthen Burundi's macroeconomic, financial
and administrative management by improvinig procedures and controls to foster
accountability and transparency.  [hie project deals with government institutional
structures at the central level. The specific objectives of the project are: (a) restore
orthodoxy and discipline, as existing procedures and regulations are routinely violated or
abandoned; (ii) introduce transparency in economic, financial and human resources
nanagement, and to improve national account and macroeconomic framework; (c)
modernize management through training, reorganization and introduction of information
based management concepts and systems, centered on computerized information
management.
Project Description
Component 1. Strengthening macroeconomic management data collection and analysis
for informed policy formulation,
Component 2. Increasing transparency and governance in public financial and
administrative management:
Sub-component 1. Budget
Sub-component 2. Treasury and Accounting
Sub-component 3, Revenue Network (Internal revenue and Customs)
Sub-component 4. Financial Computerized Network
Sub-component 5. Civil Service Managemcnt and Payroll
Sub-component 6. Human resource development and training
Component 3. Reforming public procurement system and modernizing private sector
legal and regulatory framework;
Sub-component 1: Strengthening the public procurement administration
Sub-component 2. Support to Privatization
Component 4. Defining legal and judicial reform strategy and strengthening oversight
structures capacity:
Sub-component 1. Support to the preparation of the strategy for the reforin of the
legal and judicial sector.
Sub-component 2. Strengthening of oversight capacity -- Cour des Comptes,
Parliament National Committee on Finance, inspection Generale dEtat, Inspection
Generale des Finances, the Tribunal of Commerce, Centre Priva dA rbitrage, and the
media.
Sub-component 3: Support to the modernization of the legal and regulatory
framework for the private sector, including strengthening of the Tribunal of Commerce.
Component 5. Project Coordination
3115



2.    AREA OF INFLUENCE
Brief Site Description
The site for the construction of the new head office building for the Ministry of Finance, is
located in the central business district of Bujumbura and measures approximately 1,5
acres. It is about 1 km from the shores of Lake Tanganyika. The site belongs to the
government and houses a small, single story ( ground floor only) building, which will be
demolished to make room for the new construction.
Preliminary site investigations have revealed that the shallowest water table level is
between 12m to 15m below the ground.
Burundi's Bio-physical Features
Burundi is a landlocked country located in Central Africa at latitude 3e.30 S and longitude
30° 00 E, and is bordered ( 223km long) by the Democratic Republic of Congo to its
west and south, Rwanda ( 290 km long border) to its north and by Tanzania (451 km
long border) to its east and south .
Burundi's total area is approximately 27,830 sq. km, of which 25,650 sq. km (92%) is
land and 2,160 sq. km ( 8%) is water. Bujumbura the capital is located at the north
western corner of Lake Tanganyika.
The terrain is hilly and mountainous, with considerable altitude variation across the
country from the lowest point of 772m at lake Tanganyika to the highest of 2,670 m at
Mount Heha. The average annual temperature varies with altitude from 23° to 170
centigrade but is generally moderate as the average altitude is about 1,700m. The
average annual rainfall is about 1500mm, and the wet seasons are from February to
May and September to November, with the dry season in between these periods from
June to August and December to January.
Burundi's hydrology is characterized by a dense hydrographic network of lakes, rivers
and wetlands, The main rivers are the Ruvubu, Ruvyironza and the Kanyaru. The
significant lakes are Lake Tanganyika, Lake Rweru, Lake Hanzigiri, Lake Rwihinda and
Lake Cyohoha. The main wetlands of international significance are the Rusizi Delta and
the northern part of the Littoral Zone of Lake Tanganyika.
The country is divided into two major drainage basins, the Nile to the east and the
Congo to the west and is completely integrated into these river basins.
The Nile River, with an estinmated length of over 6800km, is the longest riiver in the
World. tlows from soutil to niortih over 35 degrees of latitude, It is fed by two main river
systems' thc White Nile, with its sources on the equatorial plateau (Burl-ilidi, Rwandla,
Tanzania, Kenya, C'ongo and Uganda). and the Bluc Nile, with its sources in the
Ethiopian Highlands. The sources are located in humid regions, with an average rainfall
of over 1000mm per year. The total area of the Nile basin represents 10.3%,11 of the area
of the contineint of Africa anid spreads through 10 countries- The Nile River Basin covers
an area of 4X° % of BuLrunidi. T he waters of the Nile River basin flow out through the
4f1 5



Akagera river system, which contributes between 8% and 10% to the Nile drainage
system.
Whereas, the Congo River Basin is the largest river basin of Africa, covering over 12%
of the continent. It extends over nine countries and the largest area is in the DRC. It is
also, one of the most humid basins of Africa The Congo River Basin covers 52% of
Burundi.
The ecosystems of Burundi are the natural habitats of a number of important and in
some cases rare and threatened species of flora and fauna, and provide economic
livelihood to millions of its citizens.
The cuIrrent critical environmental issues facing the 6.2 m population of Burundi are!
* Natural resource degradation - such as deforestation, soil erosion, wetland
degradation.
* Loss and destruction of valuable species, ecosystems, and natural habitats.
* Poor water resources management - leading to increasing point and non point
source of pollution and waste disposal and water borne diseases,
* Lack of institutional capacity for environmental management.
Burundi has a number of national parks, two of which are the Kibira National Park is
located in the NW region bordering Rwanda's Nyungwe National Park and the Ruvubu
National Park is located in NE region on the border with Tanzania and includes papyrus
wetland, river and tributary habitat.
Burundi is a signatory to many international conventions such as the Convention on
Biological Diversity ( 1992), Convention on intemational Trade in Endangered Species of
Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES, 1973) and UrN Framework Convention on Climate
Change (1993).
5115



3.    Brief Description of World Bank Safeguards Policies
This EMP has been designed so that the constructioni of the niew Ministry of Finance
Budding, under the PAGE, will comply with all the laws of B3uruindi and the
Environmenital and Social Safeguard Policies of the World Bank In this chapter, the
13ank's safeguards policies and their applicability is discussed.
The World Bank Safeguard Policies are;
1.    Environmental Assessment (OP4,01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
2.    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)
3.    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)
4.    Pest Managernent (OP 4.09)
5.    Cultural Property (OPN 11 .03)
6.    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
7.    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
8.    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4,37)
9.    Projects on International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7,50, GP 7,50)
10.   Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7,60, GP 7.60)
However, only the Environmental Assessment (OP4,01, BP 4.01, GP 4,01) policy is
triggered by this project for the following reasons:
i)    Construction activities will take place on one site only in Bujumbura. This
site is called" LE CONSULAT-, It belongs to the Government of Burundi.
ii)   Prescntly the site is occupied by aii old villa, which will be demolished to
make way for the nlew building.
iii)  Therefore, potential impacts will be site specific, minor and can be
successfully and verifiably mitigated through the application of this EMP.
Tv)   There are no potential adverse impacts on natural resources (wetlands,
lakes, rivers, etc,) , flora and fauna, etc,
v)    There are no potential social i mpacts due to resettlement of any kind,
indigenous peoples or cultural property,
vi)   The Project Es an economic management project with no other
construction related activities.
vii)   The project has been classified C.
OP 4.01 requires that the FMP be disclosed prior to appraisal of this project. However,
since the Government of 13uruniidi brought to the attention of the World BEank late at
appraisal and during negotiations. the need to construct a new building for the Ministry of
Finance, it has been agreed that this EMP must be disclosed in country and at the
Infoshop, prior to Board presentation.
515



4,    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF
THE NEW MINISTRY OF FINANCE BUILDING
The Environmental Management Plan outlined here below consists of a set of measures
for a) screeninlg (i.e _ determination of potential adverse environmental impacts), b)
mitigation, c) monitoring and d) institutional arrangements to be undertaken during
planninig design, procurement, construction and post-construction stages of the new
building for (he Ministry of Finance to eliminate adverse environmental impacts, offset
them, or reduce themii to acceptable levels. The EMP also includes the actions and costs
needed to implement these measures.
The sum of US$5.7m is budgeted in the PAGE, to meet the cost of this new building.
The environmental management process for planning, review, clearing, building and
maintenance are:
1, The RU of the PAGE assisted by the Ministry of Public Works will prepare an
Architects Brief which will form the basis for the architectural and engineering
design of the new building. The Architects brief will contain planning information
such as the construction budget, space requirements, intended use ol facilities,
no. of people to use the building, their ranks and space requirements, car parking
requirements, information and knowledge management systems, etc., and all
otlhcr necessar-y information to be conveyed to thc firm of architects and
engineers on the needs of the Ministry of Finance.
2. The appointed firm of Consulting Architects and Engineers will design the new
building based on the Architects brief As the design progresses hey will screen
their design to ensure that all blannin- building and environmental laws and
requirements are complied with. anic           any adverse potential
environmental impacts of their- design. Any adverse environmental im acts
identified will be mitigated in the design. before the desidn is finalized. Some
mitigation measures would best be incorporated in other parts of the contract
documentation, The design will be a series of drawings which will form part of th(:
contract documentation, Table 4.1 presents 2 summary of key mitigation
measures.
3, The Final Design fincludinci complete set of contract documents) produced by
the firm of Architects and Engineers will be reviewed b2-the INECN' and the
Ministry of Public Works for environmental clearance and to ensure compliance
with local building and planning requirements. respectively. Any revisions to the
design r equcsted by the INECN. the Ministry of Public Works andlor the
PIU/Ministrv of Finance. ...41 be sent to the firm of Architects anld En ineers to
incorporate into the desian.
4. Approval of Designs by PIU after clearance from INECN and Iviinistry of Public
Works.
I NECN - Institut National Pour l'Environnerhent et la Conservation de la Nature - Ddpcltement
Technique.
7115



5. haunch of tenders to simuLltanieously appoint 0) a suitable main/managemrent
conitractor to demolishl existinlg building and to build the new building and (ii) a
firmi of consulting engineers and architects to supervise the consirLction of the
new buiiling anid the decmolition of the old structurces on the site.
6. Contractor prepares a method statement on Demolition and Construction Works,
which will be reviewed and cleared by the !NE()N and the Ministry of Public
Works.
7. Contractor embarks on demolition and construction works.
8. The firm of Consulting Engineers and Architects supervises the demolition and
construct ion works.
9. The MinislIy of Public Works and the INECN pertorm periodic site monitoring
inspections during construction of the building.
10. At the end of the construction, defects liability period of 1 2months in effect.
11. Ministry of Finance, responsible for day-to-day maintenance and operations of
the new building, form hand date of hand over to them. Defects attributable to
construction would be corrected by contractor at no extra cost to their contract
during the defects Liability period.
12. Maintenance Plan to be i mplemented by Ministry of Finance or their agent,
13. Periodic monitoring by INECN arid the Ministry of Public Works of the
implementation of Maintenance Plan.
811 5



Table 4.1: Environmental Management Plan
- Advers                  a                                iimplemented by                                                          Costs
Planning      Poor Design        Appoint design firrn of architects and engineers with envir-onmental     PIU                  Included in
resulting in high  expertise/support on t/zeir tea,n.                                                            professional fees
energy                                                                                                           budgeted
consumption of     Design Issues:                                                                                 elsewhere in
building, poor                                                                                                   project
waste ( drainage   Design building with energy consumption efficiency in mind, so as to minimize
and sewage         power demands. Consider to,
design), resulting
In land and water      *   Orientate main longitudinal facades of the building in the East- West
pollution, poor use       direction, if possible, so as to minimize direct sun exposure on
of space, use of           windows/walls. Consider use of sun screens if aesthetically compliant,
unacceptable              This will minimize maximum daily temperature variations on walls.
building materals,     *   Make use of natural and cross ventilation.
etc. making            *   Use sunlight reflective window panes
building unusable      *  Avoid central air conditioning, use single units on individual trip/cut-off
or short useful fife,      circuits,
Corrective             *   Naturally ventilate ceiling and roof voids. Secure spaces from Infestation
c            of bats,
measures may tie       *   Use energy efficient lighting systems, bulbs etc,
o expensive            *   Use solar energy emergency back up systems for less heavy power
may require                demand points such as for ceiling lighting, landscape lighting, etc.
demonitinun our   f    *   design the building's electrical circuits on two circuits: 1) on essential and
new building              2) nun essential circuits. Non essential circuits can be powered in
new bulemergency/power failure periods from solar power ( renewable source),
and essential on electric generators ( fossil fuels),
*   Consider using roofing material that is durable but energy efficient in
terms of heat rotentionfabsorplion for example, cement fiber roof sheets,
Preparation of Contract Documents:
Contract documents such as drawings, bills of quantities, specifications for
materials and workmanship, contract conditions, standard forms of tender,
performance securities etc. should be detailed and descriptive enough to hold the
9/15



contractor accountable for ensuring all ntigal,on measures adopted and approved
Planning stage                     off are implemented during construction with suitable penalties for negligence.
continued
Preparation of a Maintenance Plan;
The key features of the maintenance plan will include sustainable measures that
the Ministry of Finance or their agents can take on a;
short term ( day to day) basis: will detail a plan to clean the building on a daily
basis, repair broken doors, windows, locks, pipes, pugs and sockets etc,
immediately they are discovered and not left to further deteriorate,
medium term basis ( minimum of 3 to 6 months cycles) will concentrate oil
regular maintenance of the air conditioning systems, generators, water tanks,
plumbing, electrical and other fixtures.
long term basis:  1( yearly or greater intervals as the situation warrants) reef
inspections, painting, replacements of certain fixtures, etc.
Getting the short term plan to be implemented on a sustainable basis will ensure
enhanced durability and long term life of the building, and will reduce the cost of
the medium term plan which will in turn almost completely or significantly reduce
the need/cost of the long term plan.
Public health! Waste Handling Issues:
Sewage: Design to comply with national planning regulations. Use a closed
system If no central sewage network in Bujumbura. Ensure underground tanks are
easily accessible for emptying and that the closed system is well ventilated.
Appoint a waste management firm with a good management record and ensure
emptied waste is not just dumped on a land fill untreated but is appropriately
disposed off complying with local requirements. This is particularly important due
lo close proximity of the site to lake Tanganyika.
Drainage: Design storm water drainage se that run off does not cause soil erosion
around perimeter of building thereby undermining the foundations of the building,
and roadsides. Channel storm water off roof safely through gravity fed roof gutters
and down pipes into hard and soft landscaped areas as appropriate, to avoid
flooding and soil erosion.
Water: Ensure an adequate supply of potable water al suitable pressures on all
10/15



floors. Consider an emergency gravity fed storage tank, that is well ventilated and
Planning stage                     secure from vandalism and rodent infestation. Provide stop valves for each and
continued                        every water point unit, so that leaks, break downs, etc do riot cripple tire entire
system, to oast/ maintenance and lo minimize wastage. Ensure access to piping
system is maintained at all times and located in easily accessible/ behind non
permanent, easily removable and replaceable concealments.
Public Safety Issues:
Ensure structural design of building is sound, has an acceptable fire rating of no
less than I hour, and that emergency exists and stairs are suitable located.
Ensure offices arid other public areas in the building are well lit arid ventilated
naturally as much as possible).
EmergencylStand by Power Issues:
Consider the provision of non essential and essential eniergency power supply
systems. Use of solar energy for non essential, low power demand requirements,
and electric generators to only meet eSSenlia.1 emergency, high power demand.
Consider use of energy efficient generator sets with minimum emissions of GHG.
Electric generators should be housed in well ventilated areas, with adequate space
for: (i) access during maintenance of generator(s), (ii) safe and suitable storage of
fuel and lubricants, ease of cleaning up, collection and safe disposal of leaked
and waste Uri and lubricants.
Landscaping:
Design hard arid soft landscaping around perimeter of building and entire site to
ensure (I) aesthetically pleasing site, (O efficient drainage of storm water, (iii)
relative case of maintaining a clean environment within the site and (iv) minimum
dust collection.
Approval Stage    If this stage is   The design of the building should be approved/deared:                                         Allow US$5000 fur
omitted, designs                                                                                                 use of local
run the risk of not   a   to ensure compliance with local building and planning laws, stroetiff-al The Ministry of Public  consultants by
being chocked fil         Integrity of the design and all other issues requiring their attention.  Works,       Ministry of PO-ft
I com1fiume with                                                                                                 Works and INECN



local building,                                                                                                  in cases where
planning and              for compliance with environmental laws and requirements.          The -Inslitut National  elley do not have
environmental                                                                               Pour r Environnement  capacity to cam/
requirements,                                                                              et la Conservation de  out this role
la Nalure (INECN),
Pmcirrernent of    Seleclion of          .   Select firm of Consulting Engineers and Anchitecls with suitable  The PIL) with
Supervisor and     incompetent firms         experience, estanshod record, suitable qualified personnel and willi  assistance and
Contractor-        will mean cost over       professional Indemnity Insurance If possible. Team muse contain person  support of the INECN
runs, poor qua lil       with environmental expertise in design of public buildings.      and Ministry of Works.
product, long         4   Select Construction Company with suitable experience, established
delays, etc.              record, qualified personnel, required equipment and plant, financially
strong with verifiable cash flow during payment intervals, ability lo provide
performance guaranteesfrom local banks { not insurance companies}, As
-___ _      part of bid, contractor must present method statement.
Construction and   Noise. land, waler  COnSitildiOn and Dern. 740M' activities snolifd be carried obit to comply with local
Demolition         and air pollution,  requirements to minimize dug rOiw andpollution. ContaictOr Must
Hazard's to public        a   Take necessary measures lo protect the general public and its  Contractor to build  Included in
safety.                       workers from  Injury and to ensure their Safety, by adequately  and Demolish,      Construction costs
securing site from trespass, by providing workers. with hard hats,                 and professional
suitable foot wear and appropriate tools, by resericeing demolition  Firm to Supervise  fees for
activieies to certain times of the day to minimize nuisances caused by  Construction, and  supervision.
noise and dust, and to cart away and dispose off unwanted rubble  Demolition Activities
safely and according to local requirements.
Maintain' a first aid tool kit that is easily accessible when needed as
part of their emergency response plan which must be simple lo
implement, contain useful/emergency contact tel. numbers, etc..
*   Suilable storage for construction materials such es cement, sand,  Ministry of Public  Allow US$15,040
stones, fuel, lubricants etc, and spillagelleaks must do cleaned up.  Works co provide  tor him of local
oversight,            consultants by
*   Sand and Stone material to be mined from areas acceptable and                      lvlir kistry of PubriC
conforming with local requirements.                          INECN to periodic.    Works and INECN
inspect site,         in cases where
*   Must not use banned, harmful and hazardous materials/substances                   they do not have
according to Burundi and/or international standards, (e.g Asbestos)                copacily tor this
grole.
12115



During this stage also;
* The contractior will bc closely supervised by a firm of Elngineers and
Architects.
*  lhc contactor will be legally botud by legal instriLments with financiA
penalties and In some cases with criminal liability.
Maintenance                          Implement Maintenance Plan as designed in planning stage.               implemented by       Ministry f Finance
Ministry of Finance or  must buc get funds
Ensure Ministry of Finance has budgeted the necessary funds to implement plan,  agent acting on their  outside tl is project
behalf.              to meet this
requirement.
Monitored by the     Fees incl tided
Ministry of Public   above.
Works assisted by
INECN
Nb. When one
government agency
has to monitor
another government
agency, this system
does not work well,
hence the FNECN is
required to assist and
provide some
independence/remove
conflicts of interests.
13/15



41    Key Monitoring Roles and Responsibilities:
TI'he main objective t;or monitoring is two ftld;
i)    to aler-t the lI[] by providing thelml with timely informationi abouLt the
success or otlherwise of the environmrnental management process outlined
in this ElvIP in such a manner that changes can be made as required,
ii)   to make a final evaluation in order to determinie whether the mitigation
mcasures containied in the design, construction and mainteniance stages
are effective.
Therefore;
The PIU for the PAGE will be responsible for implementation of this EMP. The PIU will
also provide oversight to ensure the Ministry of Public Works, the 1 NECN and the
Ministry of Finance, the Design and Supervision Firms of Consulting Engineers and
Architects and the Contractor are carrying out their respective responsibilities. The PIU
will review monitoring reports and implement recommendations there in.
The INECN following clearance and approval of the designs of the consulting firm of
engineers and architects, and following clearance and approval of the method statement
of the contractor, will carry out regular ( at [east once monthly) site visits to ensure
compliance with approved design and method statements and prepare monthly reports
and recommendations for submission to the PIU. On matters/non-compliances requiring
urgent and immediate attention, the INECN will immediately notify the firm of consulting
engineers and architects who is supervising the building and the contractor to remedy
the situation immediately. Such notice will be given verbally on the spot and confirmed in
writing within 24 hours, and such notice shall be copied to the Ministry of Public Works
and the PIU and shall be included in their monthly report.
The Ministry of Public Works will also car-ry out independent periodic inspections
during construction of the building and will prepare montlhly reports on their findings for
submiiissioni to the PIU. On com1pletion of the building, durinig thc maintenance stage, the
Ministry of Public Works assisted by the INECN, will make periodic visits to the
building to detcrminie whethel or not the mainiteniance plan is being implemented, and
whetlher any changes are necded to it. It will prepare reports following each visit for its
records and will submit themii to the Ministry of Finance.
The Ministry of Finance is primarily responsible for maintaining the building in a state
that conforms with environmental and public health requirements and consistent with the
maintenance plan. This would include ensuring that the maintenance plan, prepared by
the firm of consulting engineers and architects who designed this building, is being
implemented, that appropriate funds are budgeted for this and complying with the
recommendations of the Ministry of Public Works/1NECN in their periodic monitoring
reports.
The firmi of consultinig enginecers and architects that are responsible for supervisilng
the constr-uction of the building, wile, enlsuIC the building is built and designed, produce
as-built drawings recording aniy changes to design. issue inst uctionis to the contractor,
prepare monthly reports on all constructiotn activities and for comlplying wvith the
14115



instructions/recommendations of the Ministry of Works/INECK They will maintain the
services of a clerk of works/resident engineer or architect.
The Contractors wilt build the building according to the design and comply with all terms
of their contract, comply with all instructions of their supervisor and the Ministry of Public
Works/INECN.
The following are some pertinent parameters and verifiable indicators to evaluate
success of EMP:
*  Has the Ministry of Public Works cleared the design?
*  H8$ the design been given clearance on environmental matters by the INECN?
*  is there environmental expertise on the team of design engineers and architects?
*  Has the best contractor been selected in a transparent manner and with value for
money?
*  Has contractor provided a method statement and has it been cleared by INECN?
*  Is there a clerk of works/resident engineer/architect on site.
*  How frequently are the Ministry of Public Works and 1 NECN visiting the site,
* Are monitoring reports being prepared by the supervising firm., the 1NEGN and
the Ministry of Works,
*  How many violations of the contractor have been recorded and at what rate are
they occurring.
*  Has the construction been completed on time. If not, why not?
*  Is Ministry of Finance implementing Maintenance plan. Are they maintaining a log
of maintenance activities.
* At what rate are !NEON and Ministry of Public Works monitoring the Ministry of
Finance to implement maintenance plan.
* Is the Ministry of Finance budgeting funds to implement maintenance plan.
4,3   Costs
The cost of implementing This EMP is US$20,000 ( Twenty thousand dollars as stated in
table 4.1). This cost will be included in the total cost of the building.
15/15



I
II
I
I
I
I
I
I



