Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. Cable 
Address: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED 
 
October 8, 2010 
 
H.E. Mrs. Clotilde Nizigama 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
B.P. 1830 
Bujumbura, Burundi 
 
Amendments to Legal Agreements to Allow the Use of Electronic Means for 
Delivering Applications for Withdrawal and Supporting Documentation 
Economic Management Support Project (IDA 38520-BU) 
 
Excellency, 
 
We refer to the legal agreement for the 
above project between the Burundi (“Recipient”), 
on the one part, and the International Development Association (variously “IDA” and “Bank”), 
on the other part, as amended to date. We also refer to our recent decision to allow the use of 
electronic means for delivering applications for withdrawal and supporting documentation for 
projects financed by the Bank out of its own resources or as administrator of trust fund grants 
provided by other donors.   
 
Accordingly, we propose to amend the Legal Agreement by incorporating the provisions 
of the Annex set forth in Attachment II to this amendment letter as an integral part of the Legal 
Agreement.  
 
All terms of the Legal Agreement not hereby amended shall remain in full force and 
effect.  
 
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendments to the Legal Agreement 
on behalf of the Recipient by countersigning and dating the two original copies of this 
amendment letter and returning one countersigned original to us. Upon receipt by the Bank of this 
countersigned copy of this amendment letter, the foregoing amendment shall become effective as 
of the date of the countersignature. We also request that you notify all relevant project 
implementing entities of the above amendments. 
Yours sincerely, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
//s// John McIntire 
Country Director for Burundi 
Page  2
Africa Region 
Page  3
AGREED: 
 
Burundi 
 
By:  _//s// Clotilde Nizigama
Name:  Clotilde Nizigama
Title:  Minister of Finance
Date:  October 8, 2010
Attachments:  
 
I. 
Terms and Conditions for Use of Electronic Means for Delivering Applications for 
Withdrawal and Supporting Documentation
 
Page  4
Attachment I
ANNEX 
Terms and Conditions for Use of Electronic Means for Delivering Applications for 
Withdrawal and Supporting Documentation 
1. 
General.
 
Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement, applications for withdrawal, applications for special commitments, and 
documentation in support thereof (such applications and supporting documentation together 
referred to as “Applications”), may be delivered by electronic means to the Bank on the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Annex; and such Applications so delivered shall be deemed to have 
been duly given or made when they have been delivered by such electronic means to the Bank. 
 
2. 
Electronic Delivery. 
Officials of the Recipient may deliver Applications electronically on 
behalf of the Recipient if they: (a) have been designated in writing by the Recipient, pursuant to 
the terms set forth or referred to in this Agreement, to sign and deliver Applications, (b) are 
registered as users of the Bank’s “Client Connection” (“CC”) website 
(
https://clientconnection.worldbank.org
), and (c) have received from the Bank secure 
identification devices (“Tokens”) for the purpose of delivering Applications by electronic means. 
The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of preparing and delivering Applications in 
paper format. The Bank reserves the right and may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or 
permanently disallow the electronic delivery of Applications by the Recipient. 
 
3. 
Authorized Signatories.
 Subject to any notice received by the Bank from the Recipient 
pursuant to Section 5(a)(i) below, the Recipient represents and warrants to the Bank (and such 
representations and warranties shall be relied upon by the Bank) that all officials authorized or to 
be authorized by the Recipient to sign Applications pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement (collectively the “Signatories” and individually, a “Signatory”) are hereby 
also authorized by the Recipient to accept Tokens and to deliver such Applications by electronic 
means in accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated in this Annex
.
This authorization is 
in addition to any authorization from the Recipient currently in the Bank’s records with respect to 
this Agreement.
 
4. 
Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to Process Applications.  
The Recipient shall 
abide by the 
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Device in Connection with Use 
of Electronic Means to Process Applications 
(“Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens”) set forth 
in paragraph 5 of this Annex.  The Recipient also represents and warrants to the Bank (and such 
representations and warranties, including without limitation, the representations and warranties 
contained in the Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens, shall be relied upon by the Bank) that 
the Recipient shall deliver the Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to each Signatory and 
shall cause each Signatory to abide by those terms and conditions. 
 
5. 
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Device in Connection With Use 
of Electronic Means to Process Applications
.
The Bank will provide Tokens to permit the 
Recipient to deliver Applications to the Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use 
specified herein:   
Page  5
(a)
 Identification 
of 
Users
i. 
The Recipient will be required to have identified in a completed authorized signatory 
letter (“ASL”) duly delivered to and received by the Bank each Signatory who will be 
authorized to deliver Applications. The Bank will provide Tokens to each Signatory 
identified in the ASL, as provided below.  The Recipient shall also immediately notify 
the Bank if a Signatory is no longer authorized by the Recipient to act as a Signatory. 
 
ii. 
Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank’s “Client Connection” website 
(
https://clientconnection.worldbank.org
)
prior to delivery of Tokens.  Registration on CC 
will require that the Signatory establish a CC password (“CC Password”).  The Signatory 
shall not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC Password in 
written or other form.  Upon registration as a CC user (“CC User”), the Signatory will be 
assigned a unique identifying account name. 
 
(b)
 
Distribution, Initialization and Return of Tokens
i. 
The Bank will physically deliver a Token to each Signatory in a manner to be determined 
by and satisfactory to the Bank.   
 
ii. 
At the time of delivery of a Token to a Signatory, the Signatory will receive a copy of 
these Terms and Conditions of Use for purposes of initializing the Token. 
 
iii. 
The Bank will verify that the Token, Temporary Password and Terms and Conditions of 
Use have been duly delivered to and received by the CC User. 
 
iv. 
Promptly upon receipt of the Token and Terms and Conditions of Use, the Signatory will 
access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register his/her Token and 
set a personal identification number (“PIN”) to be used in connection with the use of 
his/her Token, after which the Token will be initialized for use by the Signatory 
exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.  Upon initialization of the Token, the 
Signatory will be a “Token User”.  The Bank will maintain in its database a user account 
(“Account”) for each Token User for purposes of managing the Token of the Token User.  
Neither the Recipient nor the Token User will have any access to the Account. 
 
v. 
Prior to first use of the Token by the Token User for delivering Applications, the 
Recipient shall ensure that the Token User has received training materials provided by 
the Bank in use of the Token. 
 
vi. 
Tokens shall be promptly returned to the Bank upon request of the Bank. 
Page  6
(c)
 
Management of Tokens
i. 
Tokens will remain the property of the Bank. 
 
ii. 
Use of the Token is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the Token 
User in the manner prescribed by the Bank in this Agreement and these Terms and 
Conditions.  Any other use of the Token is prohibited. 
 
iii. 
The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the Token 
by the Token User, other representatives of the Recipient, or third parties. 
 
iv. 
The Recipient undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such 
representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in delivery of a 
Token to each Token User) that each Token User is provided, understands and will abide 
by, these Terms and Conditions of Use, including without limitation the following: 
 
Security 
 
A. 
The Token User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN 
in written or other form. 
 
B. 
The Token User shall not allow anyone else to utilize a Token to deliver an 
Application to the Bank. 
 
C. 
The Token User shall always logout from Client Connection when not using the 
system. Failure to logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected. 
 
D. 
If the Token User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her 
Token he/she shall immediately notify 
clientconnection@worldbank.org
.
E.  The Recipient shall immediately notify the Bank at 
clientconnection@worldbank.org
of any lost, stolen or compromised Tokens, and take 
other reasonable steps to ensure such Tokens are disabled immediately. 
 
Care of Tokens 
 
F. 
Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore should 
be handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to extreme 
temperatures, crushed or bent.  Also, Tokens should be kept more than five (5) cm from 
devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (“EMR”), such as mobile phones, phone-
enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Tokens should be carried and 
stored separate from any EMR device.  At close range (less than 5 cm), these devices can 
output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper operation of electronic 
equipment, including the Token.  
 
G. 
Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical 
instructions on the proper use and care Tokens are available at 
http://www.rsa.com
.
Page  7
v. 
Replacement 
 
A. 
Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of E, above) or destroyed Tokens will be 
replaced at the expense of the Recipient. 
 
B. 
The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Token in the 
case of misuse, or not to reactivate a Token User’s Account. 
 
vi. 
Reservation of Right to disable Token 
 
A. 
The Recipient shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a Token User 
to use a Token for any reason. 
 
B. 
The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently 
disable a Token, de-activate a Token User’s Account or both. 
 
