                                                                                         49087




                                        PROJECT PAPER



 Date: April 13, 2007                               Task Team Leader: David Tchuinou
 Country: Burundi                                   Sector Manager: Yvonne M. Tsikata
 Project Name: Economic Management                  Country Director: Pedro Alba
 Support Project                                    Environmental Category: B
 Project ID: P078627


 Borrower: REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
 Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE

 Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m)
 FY                                    20042006              2007          2008           2009
 Annual                                       4.1              9.7           8.5            3.7 .
 Cumulative                                   4.1             14.2          22.7           26.0


 Current closing date: 07/3112009
 Revised closing date [ifapplicable]: [Not Applicable]



 Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?         a Yes   eNo
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                   aYes aNo
 Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                    aYes eNo


 Revised project development objective/outcomes [Not Applicable]



I



 Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No. Ifso, dick here to
 indicate which one(s) [selection box like the one in the new [SRI


                                  Revised Financing Plan (US$m)
                     Source                             Local         Foreign         Total

 Borrower                                                 1.53          0.00           1.53
 IBRD/IDA                                                 1.90         24.10          26.00
 Others
 Total                                                   3.43          ~4.10          27.53


Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project




                              REpUBLIC OF BURUNDI

                       RESTRUCTURING OF EMSP PROJECT

                                 (Credit No. 3852- BU)



                                     I.     INTRODUCTION


1.     This memo seeks your approval of proposed amendments to the Economic
       Management Support Project (EMSP). The project is financed by an IDA credit
       to Burundi approved by the Executive Directors in 2004.

2.     From early on, the performance of the project had been poor. In October 2006, a
       Bank mission visited Burundi for a mid-term review of project implementation.
       The mission analyzed the main factors behind the poor implementation and
       disbursement performance of EMSP and discussed with the government an action
       plan aimed at: (i) aligning project activities related to the preparation and
       implementation of critical macroeconomic, public finance and sectoral reform
       measures supported by the recently approved Economic Reform Support Grant
       (ERSG); and (ii) strengthening project monitoring and coordination mechanisms,
       leading to better supervision ofthe agreed reform process.

3.     A brief description ofthe main components of the restructured project is provided
       in Annex n. All new activities are in the same areas as the project components
       described in the original Development Credit Agreement.        Accordingly, the
       proposed changes do not need to be reviewed and approved by the Executive
       Directors.

                   II.    BACKGROUND AND REASONS FOR RESTRUCTURING


4.     On January 29, 2004, the Executive Directors approved a US$26 million credit
       for an Economic Management Support Project (EMSP). The credit became
       effective on March 30, 2004. The closing date is July 30, 2009.

5.     The objective of the project - as described in Schedule 2 of the DCA - is to
       increase the efficiency of the Borrower's macroeconomic, financial and
       administrative management systems by strengthening system accountability and
       transparency.     The project includes four components: (i) macroeconomic
       management, (ii) public finance & administrative management, (iii) public
       procurement and privatization of public enterprises, and (iv) legal and judicial
       reform and oversight strategy.

6.     As shown in Table I of the Annex I, the performance of the project was poor. As
       of December 31, 2006, less than 18 percent of the credit had been disbursed and
       only four of the seventeen output indicators (Annex I, Table 2) identified in the
       Project Appraisal Document had been fully met.


                                            1

Burundi: Restructuring of EMSP Project



7.     The poor implementation and disbursement performance of the project was due to
       five main factors:

     Project implementation took place during a political transition process, including
       approval of a new Constitution and Parliamentary and Presidential elections. The
       new govemment which was established following the July-August 2005 elections
       initially focused its attention on political issues, including cease-fire negotiations
       with a rebel group that had refused to participate in the initial political
       reconciliation process. Political circumstances are largely responsible for delays
       in establishing the project coordinating unit, developing a pipeline of eligible sub
       projects and launching the project implementation process.

     The project was conceived as a flexible operational instrument to accommodate a
       complex political context and allow for adaptation to the changing needs in the
       areas of macroeconomic management and structural reforms. The absence of a
       detailed implementation plan, when the project was approved, was a factor
       contributing to the slow development of a pipeline of sound sub-projects.

     The civil war hada devastating impact on the capacity of public institutions. The
       problem was exacerbated by frequent changes in the staffing of key ministries.
       Weak capacities affected the quality of sub-project proposals leading to their
       rejection by the Bank.

     Monitoring and Evaluation was not clearly specified and discussed in the credit
       documents, making it difficult to assess progress towards the attainment of the
       project objectives. Weak capacity in the country prevented .the recruitment of
       monitoring and evaluation specialist to assist the implementing agencies to plan
       their activities and monitor progress.

     The succession of three Team Task Leaders (TTLs) in two years affected Bank
       supervision and the effectiveness of the Project Coordinating Unit.          This is
       evidenced by the long delays (53 days on average) in Bank responses to non
       objection requests concerning sub-project proposals.

8.     Today, however, two factors are likely to have a positive influence on project
       performance.

     The first factor is the renewed interest of the Burundian implementing agencies in
       the types of activities supported by the project. Table 4 in Annex I shows a
       dramatic increase in project activities launched in 2006.

     Second and more importantly, the Burundian government has recognized the need
       to accelerate implementation of key policy and institutional reforms included in
       programs supported by the Bank and the IMF. In August 2006, IDA approved a
       US$60 million Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG) to help implement
       macroeconomic, public finance, procurement, sectoral and other reform measures.
       The closing date of the Grant is June 2007. Effective implementation of these
       measures requires a combination of technical support and capacity-building

Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project



       activities, which are part ofthe proposed revised EMSP. The October 2006 Bank
       mission recommended, and the government agreed, that the scope of the EMSP
       Project be revised to emphasize preparation and implementation of the most
       critical reform measures envisaged in the ERSG program, including triggers for
       future development policy lending.


                                   III.     PROPOSED CHANGES


9.     The proposed changes concern: (i) new project activities, (ii) the revision of
       project components, and (iii) the structure and functions of the project
       coordination and monitoring mechanisms.

A. New Project Activities

10.    The objective of the project has not changed. All new activities are in line with
       the four original components of the project. The most' important change is the
       criteria used to select specific activities for EMSP financing.

      Government priorities in macroeconomic and financial management are much
       clearer now and are reflected in the reform program supported by the recently
       approved ERSG grant. Accordingly, the proposed changes are designed to focus
       EMSP activities on helping prepare and implement the reform measures identified
       in ERSG and other Bank-supported policy reform programs.

      An important component of the ERSG program is the reform of the export crop
       sector (coffee, tea and cotton). The restructured EMSP will therefore give a high
       priority to a series of diagnostic studies, audits and other activities aimed at
       preparing and eventually implementing the privatization of public enterprises
       operating in the sector. These activities have been added to the privatization
       component ofEMSP.


B. Revision of EMSP Project Components

11.    In addition to project coordination, EMSP, as described in the original DCA,
       includes four major components: (i) macroeconomic management, (ii) public
       finance    and   administrative    management,     (iii) public   procurement   and
       privatization ofpublic enterprises, and (iv) legal and judicial reform and oversight
       mechanisms.
            "



12.    Including public procurement and privatization of public enterprises in the same
       category was justified in 2004 - when the project was negotiated - because the
       Ministry of Good Governance was the agency responsible for these two rather
       different types of activities. Today privatization of public enterprises is handled
       by a special department, "Service Charge des Enterprises Publiques" (SCEP)
       which reports to the Second Vice-Presidency.            Consequently, the original
       structure has become obsolete and a new structure is now proposed as described
       in paragraph 15.


                                                3

Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project


13.    As in the original project design, the first component deals with macroeconomic
       management (essentially statistics, data collection and analysis) and the second
       one with public finance and administrative management. The third component,
       privatization of public enterprises, would include a major export crop sector
       reform sub-component, as discussed in paragraph 10.        The fourth component
       addresses    governance     issues,   including   public procurement,    oversight
       mechanisms and judicial reform. It focuses on transparency and the fight against
       corruption, in line with the new priority of the Burundian government as
       expressed in a letter dated May 2006 sent by President Nkurunziza to the
       President ofthe Bank.

C. Project Coordination and Monitoring Mechanism

14.    The Ministry of Finance - in cooperation with other beneficiary institutions
       (Planning, Institute of Statistics, Civil Service, Good Governance, Justice, etc.) 
       is responsible for project implementation. A Project Coordinating Unit headed by
       a Project Coordinator assists the Ministry and other beneficiary institutions in
       selecting and implementing project activities. A Steering Committee, chaired by
       the Finance Minister's and a Technical Committee, chaired by the Chief of Staff
       ofthe Finance Minister, approves annual programs and budgets, discuss as project
       implementation and provides broad guidance' on project objectives and activities.
       The Technical Committee has in fact taken a leadership role in the review of
       EMSP activities, as the Steering Committee has not met regularly.

15.    The mid-term review mission recommended, and the government agreed, that two
       main changes be made in the project coordination mechanisms:

          The first change concerns the membership of the Technical Committee (TC).
            At this stage only the ministries of Finance, Planning, Civil Service, and
            Good Governance, and the Supreme Court are represented. The mission
            recommended that the Ministry of Agriculture, the Service Charge des
            Entreprises Publiques (SCEP), the Budget Department (Direction Generale
            du Budget), the Revenue Department (Direction Generale des Recettes) and
            the Accounting Department (Direction de la Comptabilite Publique) should
            also attend Technical Committee meetings. This is justified by the emphasis
            placed on budget planning and management, privatization of public
            enterprises and the reform of the agricultural sector in the list of planned
            EMSP activities. However, this does not require changes in Schedule 4 to the
            DCA which already provides that the membership of the TC should be
            extended to all implementing agencies.

          The second change concerns the functions and the agenda of the Technical
            Committee (TC). Since the restructured EMSP project is expected to give
            priority to technical support and capacity-building activities aimed at
            preparing and/or implementing ERSGs and other critical policy reform
            programs, the meetings of the Technical Committee should start with a
            systematic review of progress made in implementing the conditions of the
            ERSG grant.      To that end, the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), in


                                              4 


Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project



           cooperation with the ministries and agencies concerned, would prepare two
           sets ofreports: (i) a report on ongoing and planned EMSP activities, and (ii) a
           progress report on implementation of ERSG and other high-priority reform
           measures. This would encourage the government to seek EMSP assistance to
           help implement critical reform measures planned in the context of ERSG and
           other programs on a timely basis.

16.    The mission also discussed with the government the role of the Bank in its
       supervision of the EMSP project. The Bujumbura office has already recruited a
       competent Burundian economist who - jointly with the TTL          will playa major
       role in helping the Project Coordinating Unit and Burundian agencies implement
       and monitor EMSP-fmanced activities. To reduce delays in Bank reviews ofnon
       objection requests, two measures have been taken:

         First, the Bank procurement officer and the PCU have discussed the
           feasibility of grouping a number of planned project activities in order to
           simplify the bidding process.

         Second, the Bank and the PCU have agreed to provide a response within 15
           days from the date of receipt of documents and communication. A tracking
           system has been developed by the PCU to monitor relevant dates and response
           times by all parties.    The system includes immediate acknowledgement
           confirming receipt ofdocuments/communication.

D. Procurement

17.    The PIU is staffed by a qualified Procurement Officer. The Procurement Plan
       will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to
       reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
       capacity. The procurement plan for 2007 has been discussed with the project
       team and will be adopted pending management approval of the proposed
       restructuring.

E. Proposed Reallocation and Disbursement

18.    No reallocation of resources among DCA disbursement categories is expected at
       this time. A computerized system acceptable to IDA capable of producing
       financial reports including quarterly FMRs is available. Records and accounts are
       regularly audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.

                                         IV.    ANALYSIS


19.    The proposed changes in this document are minor and do not require Board
       approval. Not only these changes will not affect the economic, financial,
       institutional and social aspects of the project as appraised, but they will help
       achieve the original project objectives that were out ofreach in the earlier years of
       project implementation due to the political context and the lack of focus ofproject
       activities on the overall reform process. The environmental category has been


                                             5

Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project


       revised and classified as B, rather than C as in the original integrated safeguards
       datasheet. Potential impacts with respect to the construction of a building for the
       MOF will be site specific, minor and can be successfully mitigated through the
       application of the environmental management plan. The proposed changes do not
       involve any exception to current Bank policies.

                                 V.      EXPECTED OUTCOMES


20.    The proposed changes will not affect the project's development objectives and
       outcome indicators. Table 3 in Annex I and Table 7 in Annex II provide a list of
       outcome and new output indicators which will be used to monitor the
       performance of the project. With the help of local consultants and Bank staff, the
       Project Coordinating Unit will develop and implement an appropriate monitoring
       and evaluation system. When preparing reports for the Technical Committee, the
       PCU will also review the progress of ERSG reforms and the indicators listed in
       the matrix ofthe ERSG Board documents.

                                  VI.     BENEFITS AND RISKS


21.    The main benefits to be derived from the project are:

         Timely implementation of the policy reforms agreed upon in the ERSG
           program; and

         Improved capacity of government agencies to: (i) develop a sound statistical,
           economic and social data collection system; (ii) improve budget programming
           in line with the objectives of the country's poverty reduction strategy; (iii)
           improve budget execution and monitoring of public expenditures; (iv) better
           manage the country's public enterprises sector; (v) improve the performance
           of the export crop sector through a carefully planned privatization process;
           and (vi) fight corruption through improved governance, procurement practices
           and more effective oversight institutions.

22.    The main risk is that Government gives the highest priority to critical political
       issues at the expense of sound economic and public finance management and
       therefore will not use the technical support provided by the EMSP project to
       accelerate implementation ofits policy and institutional reform program. Political
       instability and frequent changes in the leadership of key economic ministries are
       some of the factors that could derail the reform process and affect the
       performance ofthe project.

23.    The risk is mitigated by the strength of the Government's commitment to
       implement the reform program and by the Government's significant actions taken
       to speed up project implementation as evidenced by improvement of the project's
       disbursements.

24.    The detailed action plan agreed upon during the mid-term review of the project
       should also reduce the risk of delays in project implementation. The concomitant


                                            6

Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project



       reviews by the Technical Committee ofEMSP activities and progress achieved in
       implementing the country's reform program should help detect adverse
       developments that could affect the effectiveness ofthe project in a timely manner.




                                            7 


Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project




Annex I: EMSP - Project Performance

Perfonnance of EMSP (known as PAGE in French) was poor during the first two years of
project implementation. In 2006, however, the Government demonstrated a renewed
interest in technical support activities financed by the project, as indicated by a
significant increase in the number and size ofnew sub-projects launched.


A.        Poor implementation and disbursement performance during the first two
years of project execution

Until recently, the perfonnance ofthe EMSP Project has been disappointing.


      Table 1 below shows the distribution of disbursements by components. Less than
          18 percent of the credit has been disbursed, and a significant part of it (about 37
          percent) helped finance the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). The two other most
          active components were: (i) public finance and administrative management (28
          percent), and (ii) justice and oversight control institutions (17 percent).

      Table 2 shows that out of 17 output indicators identified in the Project Appraisal
          Document, only four have been fully met. Some progress has been made towards
          achieving seven of the remaining indicators, while nothing has been done with
          respect to the last six.

              Table 1: Disbursements by Components and Category of Expenditure

                        As ofDecember 31,2006 (in thousands of US dollars)

                            Macro      Public Fin.  Procur. & ' Justice & Coordina    All    In % or,
                          economic     and Adm.        Public. Oversight  ling Unit Compo       total I

                      Management     Management    EnteIprises  Controls             nents           I
Goods                         185           226        94         193       299      997       24%
Works                                         47                                      46        1%
Consultants                    54            633       191         65       236     1178       28%
Training                      163           254         69        454       134     1075       26%
Increm. Operating                                                           846      846       20%
Costs
Total                         402           1159 ,     355        712       1514     4143     100%
In % oHotal                  10%            28%        9%        17%        37%     100%
Allocation under              2.42          15.8      3.15        1.63       3.0      26
EMSP


The poor perfonnance ofthe project is due to five main factors:

     a)  Political environment.      During project implementation, Burundi went through
          major political events, including approval of a new Constitution (February 2005)
          and Parliamentary/Presidential elections (July-August 2005). It took a while for
          the new government, established following the 2005 elections, to recognize the
          possible benefits of using the project to help                  implement its overall
          macroeconomic and public finance refonn program. This resulted in delays to
          establish the Project Coordinating Unit, discussing the project objectives and


                                                  8

Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project



       main components with potential beneficiaries, and developing a pipeline of sub
       projects.

   b)  Project design issues. EMSP (PAGE) was conceived as a flexible operational
       instrument to accommodate a complex political context and allow for adaptation
       to the changing needs in the areas of macroeconomic management and structural
       reforms.    The absence of a detailed action plan at the beginning of project
       implementation is partly responsible for the slow development of a pipeline of
       sound SUb-projects. At the same time several activities which are now viewed as
       crucial for the country's development - such as the reform of the cash crop sector
       - were not explicitly spelled out in the original project description. Discussions
       on the eligibility ofthese new project activities led to further delays.

   c)  Capacity building issues. Agencies in charge of implementation did not have the
       skills required to effectively handle critical issues that the project was supposed to
       address.    For instance, ISTEEBU, the agency responsible for collecting and
       processing statistical data, has lost its most experienced economists and
       statisticians.  The capacity problem of many government agencies has been
       exacerbated by rapid turn-over ofmanagers and professional staff. Weak capacity
       affected the quality of sub-project proposals leading to their rejection by the
       Bank, causing further delays.

   d)  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The project does not have an M&E system.
       The need for M&E was not discussed in the PAD and credit documents.

   e)  High tum over of Bank Task Team Leaders (TTLs). The succession of three
       TTLs in two years has been a liability for the efficient functioning of the EMSP.
       This partially explains unusual delays in the Bank team responses to non
       objection requests regarding activities to be financed under the project. As of
       February 28,2006, out Of 106 requests for non-objection sent to IDA by the PCU,
       86 received a response from the TTLs with an average delay of 53 days. About
       25 percent of these responses took about 16 days or less, while another 25 percent
       took 79 days.




                                             9 


  Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project



                           Table 2: EMSP - Status of Original Output Indicators


                                (See Pages 21 and22 ofProject AppraisalDocument)

                       Output Indicators                                  Achievements as of December 2006                I

                                              Macroeconomic management
! Computerized data base                                       Not fully met but some progress. Database available but 

  Data base created by ISTEEBU in cooperation with BRB. 
 not secured and not linked for easy use. 

  Operational economic model 
                                 Not met. No model available so far. Consultant hired to
                                                               help Planning, Finance, BRB and ISTEEBU develop an
                                                               operational model.
  Economic & Statistics Reports                                Partly met. Statistical Yearbook available for 2004.
                                                               ISTEEBU also produces data on prices in various parts of
                                                               the country. Otherwise economic reports are not produced
                                                               regularly.
  Key staffin Planning, Finance and BRB trained                Modest progress. No training has been provided to 

  Key staffin ISTEEBU trained 
                                existing staff. EMSP finances training ofstudents in data
                                                               collection and processing, including survey design and
                                                               national accounts. First series ofgraduates will join      I

                                                               ISTEEBU & other government agencies this year.
                       Output Indicators                                              Achievements
                     Transparency andKovemance in public finance andadministrative manaKement
  Audits & studies completed                                   Partly met. An Audit Court (Cour des Comptes) has been
                                                               created. Areport on government accounts for 2004 has
                                                               beenj)ublished.
  Budget management procedures reformed &                      Not yet met. New organic law under preparation.
  computerized                                                 Consultant will also prepare implementation decrees and
                                                               revised manuals and procedures.
  Database created                                             Largely met. Monitoring of public expenditures has been
  Computerized financial system network operational            computerized through interim SIGEFI. Government plans
                                                               to extend system to payroll management and extemally
                                                               financed expenditures.
                                                      Procurement
  Update procurement code                                      Fully met. Draft code has been discussed with 

  New procurement code approved by cabinet 
                   stakeholders, including private sector and NGOs. Has 

                                                               been submitted to Parliament. 

  Action plan for reform ofprocurement administration 
        Fully met. Action plan has been adopted. 

  adopted 

  New decentralized structure set up 
                         Not met. New institutional system will be established
                                                               after promUlgation ofthe revised code and related legal &
                                                               regulatory documents.
 Framework for monitoring procurement process                 Largely met. Steering Committee has been created. Will
! established                                                  monitor implementation of the procurement reform.
I Steering Committee established
I Information Technology installed                             Not met. To be installed when new institutional system is
                                                               in place
                                                Private sectordevelopment
IAssessment,    audit & bidding process for REGIDESO           Not met. No progress on privatization ofREGIDESO.

I completed
                       DefininK letla/andilldicialr~form strate1[Y & strenKtheninx oversiKht capacity

  Legal & judicial reform strategy defined 
                   Modest progress 

  Oversight procedures established & strengthened 

  Journalists trained 
                                        Partly met. A training session on budget preparation has 

  Parliament & media trained in budgetary process 
            been organized.                                            !

 Tribunal de Commerce & Arbitration Court operational         Fully met. Arbitration center created and operational.
I Judges trained in business law                               No progress.
 Documents, equipment & office space provided                                                                            I



                                                            10 


           Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project




                                 Table 3: EMSP - Status of Original Outcome Indicators 


                                                        As of December 2006 


                                            (See Pages 21 ofProject Appraisal Document) 

                          Outcome Indicators                         Projifress to date

iImproved macroeconomic modeling, forecasting and                   Mar2.inall! satisfaetoD,
 economics
                                                                     Progress is slow: Capacity building activities have been
                                                                     launched with the aim of strengthening ISTEEBU
                                                                     (National Institute of Statistics) competencies including
                                                                     training ofstaff in statistics at the Burundi University

                                                                    ISTEEBU is in contact with AFRlSTAT in order to
                                                                     agree on a work plan that will enable the implementation
                                                                     of institutional reform and production of economic
                                                                     information
IBetter    allocation of resources, national and external, in favor  SatisfactoQ
 ofsocial sector goals in accordance with poverty reduction
, stratejify
                                                                     Good progress: A new classification has been adopted
                                                                     allowing the tracking of poverty expenditures.         The
                                                                     restructured   project will     provide support to the
                                                                     Government     to   undertake the public expenditure
                                                                     tracking survey. Recommendations of the survey will
                                                                     help in formulating the policy reforms needed to
                                                                     increase    the resources    to social sectors (health,
                                                                     education and justice).

                                                                     An interim computerized system is operational and
                                                                     wages has been included in the system.
  Improved fiscal performance                                        Marllinallv satisfactorY
                                                                     Marginal progress: Overall fiscal deficit is lower as
                                                                     compared to the estimates included in the PAD despite
                                                                     growing public expenditure due to the outlays induced
                                                                     by the peace process. Total revenue excluding grants is
                                                                     20 percent ofGDP in 2005 and 19 percent in 2006.
  Unified and transparent budll.et audited                           MarrunalIv satisfactorY
                                                                     The budget is not globally comprehensive as it does not
                                                                     include all projects financed by donors

                                                                     The Audit Court is operational and has started the audit
                                                                     of government accounts. It also provides regular
                                                                     comments to the Government on the budget review and
                                                                     at the budget preparation phase.

                                                                     The content of the Court's competencies has been
                                                                     modified     by  a   judgment      of the    Constitutional
                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                     jurisdiction. It will need realignment with the new
                                                                     orientation of the Government.
  Increased customer satisfaction with MOF operations                Marginallv unsatisfactorv
                                                                     No progress has been reached so far. One component of
                                                                     the public expenditure tracking survey will incorporate
                                                                     an assessment of beneficiaries' satisfaction. It will also
                                                                     help    monitor    customer     satisfaction  with   MOF
i                                                                    operations.




                                                                   11 


Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project


B.       Recent Improvements in the Project Performance

Despite the poor disbursement performance of the project in 2004 and 2005, there are
good reasons to believe that .changing political and economic circumstances have created
an environment more favorable to the effective implementation ofthe EMSP project.


First, the Burundian government recognizes the need to accelerate the macroeconomic
and public finance reform process, and its policy agenda - which received support from
the recently approved Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG) - is far clearer.

Second, the government now sees the EMSP project as one of its main instruments to
help prepare/implement agreed reform measures and develop national capacities.

As a result, project implementation gained momentum in the following ways:


       More than a half of the total credit disbursements took place in 2006.
         Disbursements in 2006 represent 117 percent of the cumulative amounts
         disbursed in 2004 and 2005.

       More importantly, a number of new sub-projects have been initiated to develop
         capacity in economic and public finance management institutions and prepare
         action plans consistent with the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy, public
         finance reform and agricultural sector strategy. As shown in Table 4, EMSP
         activities more than doubled from 2005 to 2006.

                          Table 4: EMSP Activities LauDched by Year

                                             jUSDollar~
  Components                                               2004              2005                2006    i

  1. Macroeconomic Mana2ement                            50,000          571,344            1,268,000 .

  2.Public Finance and Administrative                    86,225          520,976            2,054,938
 Mana2ement

 3. Procurement & Public. Enterprises                                       8,903           1,106,137

 4. Justice & Financial Oversi!Iht                      519,948          124,171             352,,800

                                                                                                         I

 Total All Operational Activities                       656,173        1,228,394            4,782,405 !



 5.Project Coordinating Unit (PCm                      1,081761          194,536              540,554
 Total activities EMSP                                1,737,934        1422,930             5,322,948
 Operational activities in % of total                      38%              86%                  90%
 EMSP activities
 PCU expenses in % of total EMSP                           68%               14%                 10%
 activities
Notes: 

a) This Table shows the year when new activities were launchedandindicates the totalcost ofthat activity. 

b) The Table also shows the decline ofpcuexpenses which were very high during thefirst project 

implementation year. 



                                                   12

 Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project




  Table 5: Main Components and Sub-Components of Original EMSP and the Restructured 

                                                EMSP 


     Component/sub-components         Allocation    Distribution Disbursed      Proposed
                                        under            of        As of   Allocation under
                                        EMSP          remaining  December    EMSPcredit
                                      credit in the     fund       2006
                                         PAD
                                         (US$           (US$       (US$     (US$      (%of
                                        million)       million)  million)  million)    total
                                                                                      credit
                                                                                     amount)
  1. Macroeconomic mana2ement            2.42           2.35        0.4     2.75       10.6
I2.Public  finance and                   15.8           10.2        1.2     11.4       43.8
. Administrative management
. 3. Private sector development and      3.15            4.5        0.3      4.8       18.5   I

  Privatization
  4. Governance. Procurement.             1.63           2.1        0.7      2.8       10.8
  Oversight institutions and Judicial
  reform
  S. Project coordination,                3.0            1.5        1.5      3.0       11.5
  management. monitoring &
  evaluation
  6. Contin2ency                                         1.5                 1.5        4.8
  Total                                   26            21.9        4.1     26.0      100.0




                                                  13 


Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project



Annex II: BriefAnalysis ofthe Main Components ofthe Restructured
Project

The restructured EMSP project will pursue past and ongoing efforts to improve collection
ofeconomic data, modernize public finance management systems and institutions, reform
procurement practices, strengthen oversight institutions, improve the judicial system and
privatize public enterprises, including restructuring and privatizing the export crop sector.


A. Macroeconomic Management

As in the initial project description, this component will focus on strengthening the
National Institute of Statistics (ISTEEBU) and other departments of statistics in key
economic and social ministries. It will also help prepare national accounts and monitor
implementation of the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy.             A series of public
expenditure tracking surveys in social sectors, which is a RIPC condition, has been added
to this component.

Support for ISTEEBU and other departments of statistics will be organized in the context
of a partnership with AFRISTAT. Burundi recently became a member of this regional
institution with help from the EMSP project.

B. Public Finance and Administrative Management

Public finance will continue to be the main component of the restructured EMSP project.
In addition to preparing a Loi Organique that will define future budget preparation,
execution and accounting regulations and practices, the project will help develop multi
sector medium-term expenditure frameworks and introduce the budget-program approach
in a number ofkey ministries.

The main activity of the project in the area of public finance will be to improve and
extend the interim fmancial management system introduced with help from the EMSP
project. The success of this measure will determine the gradual delegation of the
commitment authority to sector ministries.

The EMSP project will also finance a census of the civil service. Together with the
integration of payroll data in the computerized financial management system, this
measure will be critical for a better control ofthe wage bill.

C. Private Sector Development andPrivatization

In addition to improving business laws and regulations, EMSP will support SCEP, the
institution responsible for monitoring public enterprises, and will prepare a privatization
program for a number ofpublic enterprises identified in the ERSG grant.

An important component of the restructured EMSP program will be a series of audits,
studies, and other evaluations ofcotton sector reform and preparation for the privatization



                                              14

 Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project



 of coffee and tea sectors. A well-managed export crop sector could make an important
 contribution to economic growth and rural incomes.


 D. Governance, Procurement, Oversight Institutions and Judicial Reform

 The President of Burundi asked the Bank in his letter of May 2006 to help his
 government develop and implement an effective anti-corruption program. In this context,
 the EMSP project will help prepare an anti-corruption strategy and finance capacity
 building programs for a variety of oversight institutions (Finance Committees, Cour des
  Comptes, Inspection Generale de 1'Etat, etc.).

 With respect to procurement, the project will assist new institutions to be established
  following approval of the revised procurement code, i.e. an Agence de Regulation des
. Marches; and the Direction du Contr61e des Marches.

 With respect to judicial reform, the EMSP project will finance a diagnostic study and an
 action plan to be prepared in a participatory fashion. The project will also support
 programs aimed at improving the rate of execution of judicial decisions, and will help
 revise and harmonize business laws and regulations to improve the business environment.

 E. New Activities

 All new activities (listed in Table 6) have been selected to support the Government
 program and to improve the quality ofthe outcome results. These activities are in line
  with the project development objectives and are in the same areas as the project
  components described in the original Development Credit Agreement.




                                             15 


Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project




        Table 6: List of New Activities by Component and Their Costs (US dollars)


            Component/sub-components                   New Activity             Cost
                                                                                (US$)
    1. Macroeconomic manal!ement
                                               Public            Expenditure      500,000
                                               Tracking Surveys


                                                Facilitation for membership       500,000
                                                ofBurundi in AFRISTAT
    2. Public finance & administrative
    manJ!gement
                                                Physical   census of civil        700,000
                                                servant and establishment of
                                                secured IDs
                                                Study on establishment of         131,340
                                                pension fund
                                                Extension of SYDONIA++            114,000
                                                to border offices
    3. Private sector development and
    privatization                                                                        I

                                                Coffee sector reform             1,400000 i

                                                Tea sector reform                 695,000
                                                Cotton sector study               175,000
                                                Assessment of the banking         100,000
                                                sector (Data collection)
                                                Investment            climate      50,000
                                                assessment preparation of
                                                an action plan
                                                Update and dissemination of       100,000
                                                industrial and trading policy            I

    4. Governance, Procurement, Oversight
    institutions and Judicial reform
                                                Audit of the sale of the          125,000
                                                presidential         airplane
                                                (Falcon)



F. Conclusion

Most of the components of the restructured EMSP project support activities aimed at
preparing or implementing measures planned in the ERSG grant and other programs
supported by the Bank and the donor community. Effective implementation ofthe EMSP
project will therefore be critical to the success of the country's economic, public finance
and governance reforms.




                                              16

 Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project


                                                         Table 7: EMSP - New Output Indicators

 Macroeconomic Management
.ComQrehensive national accounts Eroduced annuall}:
 Basic statistics on economic performance produced and utilized:
          Quarterly Economic Reports produced on a timely basis
          Annual Economic and Financial Reports also produced on a timely basis
 Data base created by ISTEEBU in cooperation with BRB
 Key staffin ISTEEBU, Finance, and BRB trained
 Public expenditure tracking surveys in education, health, and justice sectors completed (end first semester 2007lbeginning second semester 2007) and action plan
 adopted
 Public Finance &Administrative Mana!l.ement
 Budget execution:
          Budget execution is improved: the rate ofexecution improved as compared with 78% for 2005 budget
          Share ofpriority sectors in executed budgets increases annually
 Wage bill control: share ofthe wage bill in GDP is on a declining path
J[I0cedures reformed: Revised Organic Law comEleted and aE2roved
 Computerized financial system network operational:
          Database ofpublic expenditures is regularly updated.
          SIGEFI prepares quarterly & annual reports on budget execution on a timely basis
 Private Sector Development and Privatization
 Assessment and audit for REGIDESO completed
 Satisfactory settlement ofGovernment arrears to private sector: at least 70% ofaudited arrears to the private sector have been settled
 Institutional framework for privatization reviewed. Revised framework adopted by the council of ministers
 SODECO and a majority ofwashing stations has been privatized
 Governance, Public Procuremen~ External Oversi!l.ht, Judiciary reforms                                                       .
I--       Transparency ofprocurement system: the number ofinvitations to tender (in %) for which the invitation process and the attribution ofthe market are
          publicly announced - exceeds 75%
          Competition in the procurement process: the number ofpublic contracts awarded through a procurement process less competitive than the one
           recommended for the estimated amount of the contract - does not exceed 15%
          Quality and regularity ofthe payment process: the number (in %).ofpaymentsperformed with more than 45 days ofdelay - does not exceed 10%
 Audits of government accounts completed on a timely manner:
         Significant reduction in time lag between closing accounts and submission to the Audit Court                                                             i
 Legal & judicial reform strategy defined and adopted
                                                                                                                                                                    ,
 New procurement institutional framework is set up
 Parliament & media training in budgetary process
 Increased number ofParliamentarians trained in budget process
 Increased number of media representatives trained in budgetprocess
 Adoption by the Cabinet ofa governance and anticorruption strategy prepared through a particip.atoryprocess, clearly specifying the role of oversight institutions




                                                                                 17 


Burundi: Restructuring ofEMSP Project




                                        18

