Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5277-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRALZIL
THIRn DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
January 10, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztlon.



CU_ENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:     Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1   Cr$984 (December 31, 1983)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ABDE        Associafto Brasileira de Bancos de Desenvolvimento (Brazilian
Association of Development Banks)
BACEN       Banco Central do Brasil (Central Bank of Brazil)
BB          Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BEFIEX      ComissXo para Concessao de Beneficios Fiscais a Programas
Especiais de ExportaqSb (Special Program of Fiscal Incentives
for Exporters)
BNDES       Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social (National
Bank for Social and Economic Development)
BNDESPAR    BNDES ParticipaSoes S.A. (BNDES Equity Participations)
BNH         Banco nacional de HabitafZo (National Housing Bank)
CACEX       Carteira de Comercio Exterior (Foreign Trade Department, Bank of
Brazil)
CDI         Conselho de Desenvolvimento Industrial (Industrial Development
Council)
CNM         Conselho Nacional Monetario (National Monetary Council)
CEBRAE      Centro Brasileiro do Apoio a Pequena E Media Empresa (Brazilian
Center to Support Small and Medium Enterprise)
CEF         Caixa Econmicff Federal (Federal Economic Fund)
CONSERVE    Programa de Conserva9o de Energia no Setor Industrial (Program
for Energy Conservation in the Industrial Sector)
EMBRAMEC   Mectnica Brasileira S.A. (Capital Goods Financing Company)
FGTS        Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servigo (Time of Service Guarantee
Fund)
FIBASE      Insumos BaSsicos S.A. Financiamento a Participagcoes (Basic Inputs
Fi5nncing Company)
FINAME      Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial (Special Agency for
Industrial Financing)
FINEM       Financiamento de Empresas
FINAC       Financiamento de Acionistas
FINEX       Fundo de Financamento a Exportayao (Export Financing Fund)
IBRASA      Investimentos Brasileiros S.A. (Brazilian Investment Company)
IOF         Imposto Sobre Operag.es Financeiras (Tax on Finanical Operations)
LTN         Letras de Tesouro Nacional (Treasury Bills)
ORTN        Obrigaf5es Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional (Obligations of the
National Treasury)
PASEP       Programa de Formafao do Servidor Peublico (Public Employees
Financial Reserve Fund)
PIS         Programa de Integra!ao Social (Program of Social Integration)
PROMICRO    Programa para Microempresas (Program for Very Small Companies)
SEPLAN      Secretaria de Planejamento (Planning Department)
SEST        Secretaria de Empresas Estatais (Secretariat of State
Enterprises)
SUDAN       Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Amaznia (The
Superintendency for the Development of the Amazon Region)
SUDENE      Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (The
Superintendency for Development of the Northeast)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page \>.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMA?Y ..........................................._
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ..........                            ..            I
A.  Industrial Growth and Structural Change ..................    1
B.  Industrial Policy ............... ...                               2
C.  Outlook .............................................................. 4
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM                        . . ..   5
Introduction .................................................    5
Recent Financial Policies and Conditions               ..               6
III.  THE NATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (BNDES)    7
A. The BNDES System                        .... 7
Background and Objectives .................................        7
Organization and Staffing                  ...  8
Planning, Budgeting and Operating Procedures .............    9
BNDES Operations                      . . .   10
Resources and Financial Per         formance ...............      11
Accounting and Audit .....................................   14
B.  BNDES Area of Operations with Agents               .      .        14
Organization, Management and Staffing . . ..................   14
Programs and Operations                   . . .    14
Operating Procedures                     . . .    15
C.  BNDES Area of Industrial Operations              ....   17
Organization, Management and Staffing . . ..................   17
Programs and Operations                   . . .    17
Operating Procedures                     . . .    18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in May/June 1984.  The mission comprised Messrs. H. Jones, R. Mosse
and E. Bolte of the Industrial Development and Finance Division 1, LAC
Regional Office. Mr. F. Veneroso (consultant) and Ms. R. Halvorson
(researcher) also contributed to the preparacion of this report.
This document nas a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tMe perlormance of
their official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autnonzation.



Page No.
IV.  THE STATE AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS AND INVESTMENT BANKS        18
A. The State and Regional Development Banks ..... ..............     18
Organization, I'anagement and Staffing, .................,  18
Appraisal, Supervision and Audit .........................      19
Operations ................................................... O...  20
Resources and Financial Position.........................       20
The Development Banking Association ...................    .....  22
B.  Investment Banks ............ ................ ... O....* ....   22
V.  THE PROJECT        ..........................  . .... ... * * .......  * ...o......  23
A.  Previous Bank Operations with BNDES .................... ..      23
B. The Project .................. ...... .. ......   ...0..    24
Project Objectives           ...................                24
C.  The Proposed Loan .....................          . ..  .........   .  24
Borrower, Executing Agency and Onlending Terms..o....... ..     24
Amount of Loan and Counterpart ...........................      25
Financial Intermediaries and Beneficiaries ...............      26
Loan Repayment ...........,                    ........ . ....   *,, ,27
Subloan Approval Procedures., ........................          27
Procurement.sooe ................................................ Z28
Disbursement  . ........................... .. .....            28
D.  Project Benefits and Risks ...............................       29
VI.  AGREEMEENTS AND RECOMNENDATIONS .... . ............ ... .. ........  29
Annexes
Annex 1   BNDES Organization Chart
Annex 2   Description of Principal Operations of BNDES Project Areas I and
III
Annex 3   The Brazilian Development Banks
Annex 4   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Tables
Table  1  Brazil - Annual Growth Rates, 1951-1983
Table  2  BNDES System Number of Staff
Table  3  Summary of Statistics of BNDES Operations 1979-1983
Table  4  BNDES Operating Statistics
Table  5  BNDES System Sources and Uses of Funds in Cr$
Table  6  Sources and Uses of Funds for 1980-1983 and Budget 1984
Table  7  BNDES Forecast Sources and Uses of Funds for 1985-1987
Table  8  BNDES Balance Sheets 1979-1983 (including PIS/PASEP)



Table  9  BNDES Balance Sheets 1979-1983 (excluding PIS/PASEP)
Table 10  BNDES Income Statements 1979-1983
Table 11  BNDES AP-III Operating Statistics 1979-1983
Table 12  BNDES AP-I Operations 1979-1983
Table 13  State Development Banks - Selected Financial Data
Table 14  POC Actual Commitments and Disbursements for 1984 and Estimates for
1984 and 1985
Table 15  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



(i)
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMEUlT BANKING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agtncy:      National Economic and Social Development bank (BNDES)
Beneficiaries:         - National Economic and Social Development Bank
- State and Regional Development Banks and Other
Financial Intermediaries
- Export-oriented and small- and medium-size Brazilian
enterprises.
Amount:                USS30U.0 million equivalent including capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.75 million.
Terms:                 Repayable over 15 years on a fixed amortization
schedule, including 3 years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:       The Borrower would make available the proposed loan to
BNDES, the executing agency, on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan. BNDES would take the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan. The loan
proceeds would finance a program of direct loans to
larger enterprises, and a program through state and
regional development banks (SDBs), investment banks and
state commercial banks, to finance principally smaller
scale enterprises, at real interest rates from 6% to
12% p.a. depending upon the region, type of project,
and size of enterprise financed. The principal of the
subloans would be adjusted for inflation in accordance
with changes in the 0RTN1/ index. The maturities of
subloans would be up to 15 years (average loan term of
10 years), including up to 18 months of grace after
project completion for direct operations and up to 10
years including 3 years of grace for operations through
financial intermediaries. In order to cover the
exchange risk, BNDES would make subloans equal to the
amount of the proposed loan in foreign currenty
equivalents to its largest customers at the interest
rate on the Bank loan pltus a spread to cover its costs.
Project Description:  The proposed loan would provide funds for:  (a) larger
privately controlled, industrial enterprises to support
a program to export or expand or reorient production
1/ ORTN - Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional (Ubligatioiis of the
National Trea;ury).



(ii)
for export, and (b) small and medium enterprises when
resources from the Second Development Banking Project
(Loan 2225-BR) are fully committed. It would help
establish in BNDES procedures and the capability for
doing economic analysis of projects and continue the
process started in Loan 2225-BR of extending the
capability and procedures in the SDBs for doing
economic evaluations for the larger projects they
finance.
Risks:                 The major risk associated with the project arises from
the fact that internal institutional opposition could
undermine or delay the application by BNDES and other
investment decision-making institutions of appropriate
economic criteria in project selection and evaluation.
Gradual introduction of the new evaluation procedures
coupled with appropriate staff training and process
monitoring are designed to help mitigate this risk.
Bank staff would be available to assist BNDES in the
implementation of the new project evaluation
procedures. There is also a risk that the Government
may fail to adjust the ORTN to fully reflect domestic
inflation. Covenants on the indexation of financial
assets included in several Bank loans help mitigate
this risk. It would be further agreed that if the
adjustment of the principal of BNDES' loans, together
with the interest rates applicable to such loans shall,
in the Bank's opinion, fail to be positive in relation
to the prevailing inflation rate in Brazil, commitments
and disbursements could be suspended.



(iii)
Estimated Cost and                                                        Total
Financing Plan:                                           Benefi-      Project
Bank    BNDES      ciaries       Cost
(USS million)
A. Operations Through Financial
Agents
Fixed assets and related
working capital                     98.2      49.1        98.2       245.5
Working capital only                 100.0    100.0        133.3       333.3
Sub-Total                          198.2    149.1        231.5      578.8
B. Direct Loans to Larger Private
Sector Companies
Fixed assets and related
working capital                     42.7      21.0        63.7       127.4
Working capital only                  57.3      57.3       114.6       229.2
100       78.3       178.3       356.
C.  Technical Assistance                  1.0      -           -           1.0
D.  Front-end Fee                        0.8       -           -           0.8
300.0    227.4       409.8       937.2
Estimated Disbursements:
1985     1986   1987   1988   1989
(US$ million by Bank FY)
Annual                          45.02/    90.0  125.0   28.0   12.0
Cumulative                      45.0      135.0  260.0  288.0  300.0
Rate of Return:                 n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 5277-BR, dated January iJ, 1985
2/ Including initial deposit in Special Account and front-end fee.



I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Industrial Growth and Structural Change
1.01      In the 30 years up to and includi g 1980, Brazil secured high and
occasionally spectacular rates of GDP growth largely because of the expansion and
diversification of its manufacturing sector. In the 1950s and 1960s, high rates
of industrial growth averaging about 8Z annually were attained primarily through
import substitution with high import protection and the encouragement of foreign
direct investment. The distortions emerging in this process, including high
production costs in some areas, low labor absorption, high levels of capital
intensity as reflected in both product mix and technology choice and
discrimination agai-Lsr the agriculture sector and exports, led the Government, in
the late l960s, to incroduce some trade policy liberalization measures. These
measures included increased export incentives, a reduction in import restrictions,
and improved exchange rate management. Exports began to grow rapidly, and in
1971-73, GDP and industrial growth reached about 13% and 14% per annum,
respectively.
1.02      The first petroleum price shock of 1973-74 led to renewed import
restrictions and further import substitution efforts with increased reliance on
public sector enterprises. Manufacturing continued to expand, and its share in
GDP reached 28.6% in 1980, more than in most middle-income developing countries.
While the share of manufacturing in total exports increased, only about 7% of
total manufacturing output was exported in the 1970s.
1.03      Until 1980, producers of capital goods and durable consumer goods
benefited strongly from demand for machinery and equipment from Government
sponsored infrastructure and basic industry projects as well as from rapidly
rising consumer incomes. By 1979, these subsectors accounted for over one-third
of manufacturing employment, production and value added. Industries producing
non-durable consumer goods have lost much of the dominance which prevailed at the
initiation of the high growth period, although they were still the largest
industrial category in 1979.
1.04      About 1,600 of the 118,000 manufacturing enterprises covered by the 1980
industrial census are considered to be large-scale according to the definition
employed by BNDES.1/ They employ 50% of the country's 4.6 million industrial
workers and generate two-thirds of manufacturing output. The trend toward
increased industrial concentration, which has affected particularly the metal
products and equipment industries since 1967, may have come to a halt during the
current recession. Sub-sectors with a high share of small and medium enterprises,
particularly those producing non-durable consumer goods, have been less affected
by declining demand than the capital goods industry which is dominated by large
firms.
1.05      Many large manufacturing plants are owned by foreign or public sector
enterprises. Public enterprises dominate in the steel, oil refining and basic
chemicals industries; foreign firms in the automotive, machinery and equipment,
and pharmaceuticals industries and several sub-sectors of the food processing
1/ BNDES defines small and medium enterprises as firms with fixed assets not
exceeding 500,000 ORTN (about USS3.7 million).



-2-
industry. Some 530 foreign or publicly owned manufacturing enterprises control
about 40% of industrial production. However, the current recession and the
redirection of industrial policy in Brazil are reducing the incentives for growth
of public enterprises.
1.06      Brazil's manufacturing industry is concentrated in the South-East,
particularly in the Sao Paulo area where most of Brazil's metal working, machinery
and automotive industries are located. Government incentive and investment
policies have had only moderate success in locating industry in the less developed
North-Eastern part of Brazil. The region increased its production share from 6.5%
in 1975 to 7.6% in 1980.
1.07      While manufacturing was favored during the long period of high economic
growth, it has also suffered a more severe set-back than other sectors during the
current recession. While GDP fell by an estimated 6.0% in 1980-83, manufacturing
output has fallen by about 16%, mainly in the capital goods and durable consumer
goods industries which had benefited during the growth period from high import
protection and strong demand from public sector projects. Capital goods
production has declined since 1980 by about 30% and capacity utilization is below
60%. Intermediate and non-durable consumer goods industries are suffering less in
the current crisis, partly because of their higher competitiveness which permits
diversion of production toward export markets. Overall, industrial production
during the third quarter of 1984 was still 13% below the 1980 level; manufacturing
capacity utilization in Sao Paulo as estimated by the Sao Paulo Federation of
Industries, was 72%, compared to over 84% in 1980; and industrial employment in
the state of Sao Paulo (which generates more than half of Brazil's industrial GDP)
had declined by 23% since December 1980.
1.08      The moderate recovery of industrial production during 1984 can almost
wholly be attributed to a strong export performance. While total exports are
growing at an annual rate of about 25%, exports of manufactures are rising at 34%
in 1984. The export share of manufacturing output is currently estimated at over
15%, over twice the average of the 1970s. In 1980 over 4,000 firms were exporting
part of their production and an additional 1,000, mostly Brazilian-owned private
enterprises, have started exporting since 1980.
B. Industrial Policy
1.09      Background.  On the basis of a large domestic market and ample
resources, Brazil followed for most of the 1970s a development strategy of
expanding production primarily for the domestic market. As noted, this involved
high import protection and fiscal and financial incentives for industry oriented
to the domestic market, while incentives provided for export production were
generally inadequate to offset this bias. As a result, the Brazilian economy
remained relatively closed and lack of import competition created some areas of
inefficiency.
1.10      The main problem has been that effective domestic market protection was
high and widely disparate across different sectors and industries. The average
rate of effective protection for manufacturing in 1980-81 was estimated at 44%,
with capital goods obtaining the highest effective protection, exceeding in some
cases 100%. Tariff rates vary from zero to 205% but are subject to pervasive
exemptions and tariff reductions: in the first half of 1983 only about 8% of
imports were subject to the full specified duty, and duty collections were only



- 3 -
5.1l of import values. Non-tariff restrictions are more important protective
devices than tariffs. Until September 9, 1984, import licenses had been suspended
for practically all products produced in Brazil, and the bulk of imports were
being made under special import systems (including Government import programs
which have been severely cut back). About 24 special import programs are
currently in operation.
1. LI     Changes in Import Policies.  Substantial changes in the import regime
are now being made. After liberalizing the duty drawback system in 1983 under the
Bank's first Export Development Project,2/ the Government has taken additional
steps in the direction of trade and import liberalization. In September 1984, the
Government took the following measures: (a) the list of products subject to
suspended import licenses was reduced from about 4,000 to about 2,000 items; (b)
the need to establish the unavailability of local supply to import externally
financed goods was eliminated; Cc) minimum external financing requirements for
imports were lowered to reflect International credit conditions; and (d) import
surcharges were replaced by considerably lower import duties; as a result, the
average nominal import duty of items subject to surcharges was reduced from 145Z
to 75x. Further measures under consideration are: (i) the expansion of the duty
drawback system to include indirect exporters; (ii) further actions to be taken in
the near future to rationalize and reduce import restrictions; and (iii)
preparation of a medium-term, phased program of measures to continue import
liberalization.
1.12      Exchange Rate.  Since the maxi-devaluation of February 1983 (and the
coincidental growth of import demand in the United States) manufactured export
growth has sharply accelerated. The 1984 trade surplus will exceed the US$9
billion target by more than US$3 billion and will be, by far, the highest surplus
ever achieved by Brazil. Tne Government is currently maintaining a policy of
mini-devaluation against the US dollar in line with domestic inflation, and has
indicated that this policy will continue for the present. This would establish
the basis for further export growth and a continuation of the export-led recovery,
which depend critically on an exchange rate regime that keeps exports competitive
in world markets.
1.13      Fiscal Incentives are contributing to manufactured export
profitability. Export production is exempted from taxation, including the
corporate tax on income from exports. Exporters of manufactured goods also
receive a negotiable tax credit certificate of currently 92 of FOB export value.
However, thiR incentive, the credito premio, is being gradually phased-out and
will be completely eliminated by April 1985. Finally, there are two systems which
provide imports of production inputs and machinery at reduced import duty. The
duty drawback system is already an effective export promotion system and the
Government is taking steps to expand it so that domestic suppliers of production
inputs to export manufacturers can also import their inputs duty free. The
Special Program of Fiscal Incentives for Exporters (BEFIEX) system permits imports
of machinery at reduced duty rates for manufacturers entering into long-term
export commitments with the Government. Currently, more than 250 enterprises
maintain long term BEFIEX contracts, and about 302 of manufactured exports (US$4.0
billion) are expected under such contracts in 1984.
2/ Keport No. P-3b4b-bK of September 15, 1983.



- 4 -
1.14      Preferential financing from credit lines operated hy public sector
institutions is provided for both export and priority domestic market
manufacturing. In line with the severe credit restrictions imposed by the
Gf'vernment, the 1984 resources for export financing have been cut.   Consequently
A major part of the export financing must be obtained on commercial terms which
are extremely high (exceeding 25X in real terms). The pre-shipment credit system
for manufactured exports was discontinued mn August 1984 and replaced by a new
system under which the Government is to grant an interest rate subsidy (interest
equalization) to commercial banks, equivalent to 10-15Z, for qualifying
exporters. It should be noted that these exporters will still have to pay a
10-15 real interest rate on the pre-shipment credits that they may obtain from
the banking system. BNDES and the State Development Banks are the most important
sources of long-term financing. Details of the credit programs operated by the
development banking syp:em are described in Chapters III and IV.
1.15      Industrial Policy Reform.  As noted above, industrial policies in Brazil
are currently undergoing substantial changeR towards increased market
orientation. Nevertheless, sone price distortions, particularly those supporting
relatively capital-intensive techniques of production, could continue to exist.
The scheduled abolishment of some export incentives for revenue purposes may also
partly restore an anti-export bias and provide support for import-intensive
industrial production unless there are compensating changes in other policies.
Because of such concerns. the Government has launched, in cooperation with the
Bank, a series of studies for a broad-based policy reform. Important studies on
export and industrial financing as well as on the import protection system are
already underway. Policy measures emanating from these studies would be
considered for implementation in the future and could be instrumental in
correcting price distortions remaining in the system.
C. Outlook
1.16      Brazil's manufacturing sector has the potential to resume its role as
the leading sector in the economy, if industrial policies continue to be adjusted
toward increased market orientation and new investment is chaneled into activities
that make good use of Brazil's ample human and raw material resources. Recent
steps and those contemplated to reduce subsidies and liberalize trade should help
to achieve a more efficient allocation of investment resources. The introduction
of economic project evaluation procedures in BNDES and other investment decision
making institutions which would be supported under the proposed project, would
also contribute to more efficient resource use.
1.17      At the present time, there are relatively few supply problems to
restrict industrial growth. There is idle productive capacity in practically all
industries, and labor at all skill levels is also readily available.
Export-oriented enterprises can acquire imported production inputs and machinery
under the duty drawback and the BEFIEX systems without major difficulty. On the
demand side, however, there exist serious problems for Brazilian manufacturers
because of the lack of domestic demand and protectionist pressures which have
become apparent in a number of the foreign markets in which Brazil sells. Yet,
the evidence suggests that exporters have had some success in adjusting to the
requirements of foreign markets. Provided that Brazilian manufactuirers obtain the
financial support necessary for upgrading product quality and design, large
foreign markets could be opened up, particularly for agro-industria' products,
metal products and equipment.



-5-
1.18      Industrial Sector Financing Requirements and Brazil's Financial System.
GDP growth is expected to be over 4% in 1984, because of the export-let' industrial
recovery experienced during this year. In 1985, manufacturing is expected to grow
by at least 5% to 6% and manufactured exports by double this rate. In spite of
the idle capacity in Brazil's manufacturing sector, these growth rates would
generate a substantial need for investment in fixed assets for new or improved
products and permanent working capital, particularly in export-oriented
industries. The most recent data, of 1979, show that fixed investment in
manufacturing was US$8.6 billion of whicb US$2.8 billion were invested by small
and medium enterprises, US$2.3 billion by large Brazilian private enterprises and
US$3.5 billion by public and foreign enterprises. Fixed investment during 1985
and 1986 will probably be only about one-half of 1979 levels, corresponding to
about US$6.0 billion p.a. in current dollar values. Fixed investment by Brazilian
private manufacturing enterprises would, in these circumstances, amount to around
US$3.5 billion in each year, though this could increase rapidly if the recovery
gathers momentum.
1.19      Working capital requirements were shown in the 1979 census data to
average about 15% of the value of manufacturing production. Recent low demand and
the current high cost of finance have led manufacturers to reduce inventories to
abnormally low levels.  Consequently, there exists a  need to meet minimal working
capital requirements in 1985 and 1986 in spite of the expected prevailing high
interest rates.  Assuming a temporary ratio of working capital to total output of
25%, and an annual increase of around US$20.0 billion in the current value of
production, the incremental needs for working capital for Brazilian private
manufacturing enterprises could amount to about US$2-3 billion per annum in 1985
and 1986. The US$300.0 million loan proposed in this report would finance a
relatively small but important part of these fixed and working capital
requirements in 1985 and 1986. The project would finance investments totalling
about US$937.0 million shared between SME and large firms, and would meet about 8%
of their total requirements, including around 11% of working capital needs.
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Introduction
2.01      Brazil's complex financial system is organized in two tiers.3/  The
first consists of the Central Bank (BACEN) and the Bank of Brazil (BBr(which form
the Monetary Authority), the National Economic and Social Development Bank
(BNDES), and the National Housing Bank (BNH). Except for BACEN, these
institutions lend directly and also pass on funds for relending to the group of
second-tier financial intermediaries: the commercial and investment banks, the
State Development Banks (SDBs), the finance companies, and the savings and loan
institutions.
3/ An analysis of Brazil's financial system can be found in the World Bank
report: Brazil - Financial System Review (Washington, D.C. 1984). See
also World Bank, Brazil - Economic Memorandum, 1983 (Washington, D.C.
1984), Chapter 2, for an analysis of the flow of funds and the financing
of the public sector.



-6-
2.02      In addition to having most of the responsibilities and functions of a
central bank, BACEN also supplies funds for various Government programs. BNDES,
the national development bank, is the main source of long term financing for the
industrial sector. There are 107 commercial banks of which 81 are private and 21
are owned by state governments. They concentrate on short term credit, although
on a limited scale they act as intermediaries for term lending by the federal
banks. The 37 investment banks lend mostly for working capital, but also channel
term funds, mainly from BNDES.  However, they play an important role in assisting
larger clients raise long-term capital through the placement and underwriting of
corporate debt and equity. The SDBs are government-owned state and regional
development banks, acting principally as agencies for BNDES term credit to the
industrial, service and distribution sectors.
2.03      Private pension funds have been the most rapidly growing component of
the long term capital market and currently have assets of US$4.4 billion.   The
corporate debenture market grew rapidly until recently, owing to severe bank
credit limits and wide spreads in the banking system, and in 1981 issues totaled
some US$1.7 billion. Issues in this market virtually ceased at the end of 1983
when the tax law was changed making yields unattractive to investors. Leasing
companies have expanded in real terms at a rapid rate since the mid-1970s.  In
response to tie recent restrictive credit limits, a large volume of non-negotiable
inter-company borrowings has developed.
2.04      Recent Financial Policies and Conditions.  By the end of 1983, after
Brazil had experienced three years of negative per capita growth and inflation
reached 211% for the year, debate intensified on the need for a change in economic
strategy, including a major reform of the financial system which would establish
BACEN as the sole Monetary Authority, transfer its development banking functions
to BB and/or BNDES, and curtail the use of credit subsidies, which would have to
be financed from the Federal budget subject to Congressional control.
2.05      In 1984, inflation has remained high and seems likely to exceed 200% for
the second year in a row. A continued tight monetary policy, government imposed
credit ceilings and the short maturities of liabilities have created serious
liquidity problems for many industrial enterprises. Domestic interest rates have
been on the order of 25% p.a. and above in real terms.  By the third quarter of
the year, there were, aowever, clear signs of an export-led recovery in economic
activity. Nevertheless, maxi-devaluations in December 1979 and February 1983 have
increased the indebtedness of firms with foreign obligations and a combination of
depressed output and very high domestic interest rates have resulted in losses,
eroded equity and increased short-term indebtedness. Some firms in highly
cyclicial industries such as capital goods or construction, especially those which
entered the recessionary period with substantial indebtedness, are in significant
financial distrEss. From a long run point of view, many of these companies are
efficient. WheTn growth res'.mes and real interest rates fall to normal levels,
these firms should be financially viable. Unfortunately, in the interim, high
financial charges and operating losses have eroded equity to the point where
bankruptcy has occurred. Under current conditions, there is an extreme need for
long-term debt and equity finance by Brazilian industrial firms to strengthen
their financial positions: Equity finance is needed because balance sheets have
become more leveraged; long-term finance is needed to refinance excessive short
tern birrowings, reduce current debt service obligations and undertake new capital



-7-
investments. The proposed loan would help meet the need for long-term finance to
support investments by export firms and SMEs.
III. THE NATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (BNDES)
A.   The BNDES System
Background and Objectives
3.01        BNDE as it was known until mid-1982, was established in 1952 as a
state autarky under the Minister of Finance to manage special funds to: (i)
support the Government's efforts to develop key sectors of the economy; (ii)
supply resources for priority undertakings for national development; and (iii)
stimulate private and public investment. In 1971 BNDE became a federal public
corporation under the Federal Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN) until 1979 when it
came under the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. In May
1982 BNDE was renamed BNDES and was subordinated once again to SEPLAN and given
responsibility for administering a new social fund (FINSOCIAL) to finance projects
in food, low cost housing, health and nutrition, education, rural and urban
development and small scale farming. In June 1983 it was also made the financial
agent of the Merchant Marine Fund with responsibility for disbursing funds for
projects approved by the Merchant Marine Council.
3.02        The BNDES system is ale of the principal agents of investment
policy of the Federal Government of Brazil and comprises BNDES and its
two subsidiaries, FINAME and BNDESPAR.4/ FINAME finances the acquisition of
machinery and equipment fabricated in Brazil. BNDESPAR, created in June 1982
through the merger of three ex-subsidiaries of BNDES,5/ specializes in supporting
the capitalization of Brazilian enterprise, principally through equity
participations and the financing of shareholders to subscribe for capital issues
of enterprises.
3.03        BNDES' operational program is closely identified with the
priorities and objectives of the Federal Government.  Its basic objectives
are to support and promote economic and social development, reduce regional
imbalances, strengthen Brazilian private enterprise and foster the growth and
diversification of export and import substitution programs. It seeks to
allocate its resources to maximize their impact on the growth of production
and employment and it favors, through lower interest rates on its loans,
investments in less developed regions to reduce regional disparities. BNDES gives
high priority to strengthening the State and Regional Development Banks, since
BNDES' small and mediun enterprise program relies heavily on the capability of
these intermediaries to allocate funds efficiently. The proposed project will
help support BNDES' efforts to further improve the project evaluation methods of
the development banking system and continue the process started in Loan 2225-BR of
introducing economic evaluation of projects.
4/  FINAME   - Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial.
BNDESPAR - BNDES Participacoes S.A.
5/  IBRASA   - Investimentos Brasileiros S.A.
FIBASE   - Insumos Basicos, S.A. Financiamentos e Participacoes
EMBRAMEC - Mecanica Brasileira S.A.



- 8 -
3.04        During its early years, BNDES' operations were heavily oriented
towards financing public sector projects in power, transportation and basic
industries, especially steel. However, in the mid-1960s BNDES broadened its
lending activities by increasing its term lending to private manufacturing
industry. In recent years, in response to the petroleum crisis and balance
of payments problems, BNDES oriented its efforts toward diversification of
exports, and import substitution, especially of basic inputs and capital
goods. Beginning in 1979, BNDES increased its support for developments in
the energy, agriculture, and infrastructure sectors while maintaining its
support for industry. At the same time BNDES continued its support to small
and medium enterprise through its system of financial agents.
Organization and Staffing
3.05        BNDES' higher management consists of an Administrative Council,
and a Board of Managing Directors. The Administrative Council, which
establishes BNDES' policy, is composed of eleven members, including BNDES'
President, who is the Chairman, the Secretaries General of the Ministry of
Finance and Planning Secretariat and eight members named by the President of
the Republic who serve for three years and can be re-elected. BNDES is
administered by a Board of Managing Directors, consisting of the President of the
Bank and eight Directors, all named by the President of the Republic. BNDES'
President determines the areas of responsibilities of the Directors. BNDES also
has a Fiscal Council consisting of three members named by the President of the
Republic which examines and gives its opinion on BNDES' semi-annual financial
statements and exercises the functions, largely supervisory, stipulated in the Law
for Limited Liability Companies.
3.06      The President represents BNDES in legal proceedings, presides over
Board meetings, administers and coordinates the work of the various units of
BNDES, and delegates responsibility for their administration to the Directors
of BNDES. The Directors define the lines of action of the Bank nd its operating
norms. They approve its administrative budget, its norms for administering
personnel and its internal organization. They also approve operations above a
certain limit, grants for certain types of research, investments in shares and
fixed assets, balance sheets and the borrowing contracts of BNDES.
3.07      Day to day management of each of the eleven operating areas is the
responsibility of a superintendent. Under the superintendents there are
chiefs of departments, managers of operating units, and technical personnel.
An organization chart is shown in Annex 1.
3.08      There are two project areas responsible for direct operations:
Projects Area I, with Departments for Chemical Industries, Metallurgy and
Mining, and Traditional and Capital Goods Industries; and Projects Area II
with Departments for Energy, Regional and Agricultural Development and
Infrastructure. Projects Area III is responsible for lending through
financial agents i.e. development banks and investment banks, principally for
financing small and medium enterprises. Projects Area IV has three
departments; two of which are responsible for lending for social programs
(FINSOCIAL) and the third is financial agent of the Merchant Marine Fund.
The social programs are carried out through the National Housing Bank, Institutes
of Nutrition, Health, Education, Colonization and Agrarian Reform, etc., and
through Federal and State Government Ministries and Secretariats.



- 9-
3.09      Reflecting a competitive selection process, BNDES' staff is
composed of competent and dedicated professionals. Until 1982, salaries and
benefits, were generally competitive with the private sector. However,
because of the restrictive wage policies of the Federal Government, middle
and higher bracket salaries have not been adjusted in line with inflation
since 1983, and real salary levels have decreased considerably. There is,
however, no immediate problem in retaining staff because of the depressed
condition of the Brazilian economy. As of June 30, 1984, the staff of BNDES'
system totalled 2,131, of wnich 1,604 worked for BNDES, 378 for BNDESPAR and 149
for FINAHE. Changes in staff levels since 1980 are shown in Table 2. BNDES has
annual training programs for its staff which are established on the basis of
recommendations of individual training needs identified by the managers of
operating units and department chiefs.
Planning, Budgeting, and Operating Procedures
3.10      Although operating within the broad framework of government policy,
BNDES has considerable flexibility in conducting its business. It finances
projects for the public sector (industry and infrastructure) and private
sector (mainly industry). BNDES generally accepts the priorities for public
sector investments established by the Government through the Monetary
Council and SEPLAN. Although the public sector does not receive any special
preferences from BNDES, the budgeting procedure established by SEST for public
sector investments may result in a more favorable treatment for the public
enterprises. In many cases this means that funds are reserved for the state
enterprises subject to the presentation to BNDES of a suitable project requiring
financing. This results in an informal earmarking of funds, with the private
firms occasionally being crowded out in the presence of credit constraints. For
private sector investments, BNDES has substantial leeway in determining the
strategy and sub-sectoral distribution within the general priorities established
by the Federal Government. However, these procedures have not always led to the
selection of the highest priority projects, and the introduction of economic
evaluation procedures under the proposed loan, represents a valuable addition to
help BNDES management select and support high priority investments. During
negotiations agreement was reached on a "Project Evaluation Plan' for introducing
procedures and the organizational arrangements for doing economic evaluations of
projects.
3.11      The Project Evaluation Plan for introducing cost-benefit analysis into
BNDES' project appraisals is described below. Between November 1984 and the end
of February 1985, BNDES will carry out a study to review the methodologies and
experience of similar institutions in doing cost-benefit analysis, define the
methodology to be introduced in BNDES and the parameters and criteria for its
application, select the sectors and sequence in which the methodology will be
applied, and identify the operational procedures, organizational arrangements,
training and technical assistance required to implement the new analysis. By
March 10, 1985 the recommendations of the study would be submitted to BNDES' Board
for its consideration. A condition of loan effectiveness would be approval by
BNDES' Board of the detailed Project Evaluation Plan. Between April 1, 1985 and
March 31, 1986, BNDES would introduce cost-benefit analysis in accordance with the
defined methodology, parameters and criteria for projects in the initial sectors
identified in the study. Between February 1 and March 31, 1986, BNDES would carry
out an evaluation of its experience with cost-benefit analysis in accordance with
terms of reference agreed upon with the Bank in order to take into account lessons



- 10 -
learned for applying the analysis in the remaining sectors identified in the
study. Between April 1 and September 30, 1986, BNDES would introduce cost-benefit
analysis for the remaining sectors including projects in the industrial sector
which it finances directly and which are above a total project cost of 500,000
ORTN (about US$3.7 million). No later than June 30, 1986 direct industrial
subprojects submitted by BNDES for Bank financing would include a cost-benefit
analysis and economic rate of return calculation. If BNDES failed to carry out
the Project Evaluation Plan in terms satisfactory to the Bank, the Bank may
suspend the right of BNDES to present subloan applications under the project. In
order to assist BNDES to implement these significant changes in its operational
procedures, up to US$1 million of the loan could be used to finance technical
assistance, training and the computers and computer programs identified in the
study referred to above and agreed upon with the Bank.
3.12      Operating budgets, which are built up from individual projects, are
prepared annually for BNDES and its subsidiaries and revised every six months.
Each project is classified according to whether it is a direct or indirect
operation, by sector, objective, and geographical area, and also by responsible
operating area, level of commitment, nature of enterprise, and source of
financing. This classification enables BNDES to adjust its level of operations
fairly rapidly based on the availability of budget resources. Adjustments can
also take into account changes in sectoral priorities, geographical importance and
the availability of BNDES staff to appraise and supervise the work. This rather
sophisticated budget procedure was introduced not only to improve financial and
staff resource planning and control but also to give BNDES greater flexibility in
responding to changes in Government investment and financial policy. BNDES'
budgets have been reduced significantly in real terms in the last three years as
part of the Government's general economic stabilization effort.
3.13      As mentioned earlier, BNDES is guided by the sectoral priorities
established by its Planning Department within general guidelines established by
SEPLAN. Projects are carefully analyzed by BNDES staff from the management,
technical, marketing and financial aspects. Although a partial project economic
analysis is performed, whereby estimates of net foreign exchange effects and
employment generation are determined, no comprehensive economic analysis is
carried out. Careful consideration is given to the technology to be employed,
pollution control aspects, the scale of production relative to prospective demand
and competition, and the quality and cost of the goods and services to be
financed. Projects are carefully appraised and supervised by competent analysts.
Disbursements are made, normally in tranches, subject to satisfactory performance
in executing the project and in satisfying the conditions of the loan. BNDESPAR
follows similar procedures. FINAME finances domestically manufactured machinery
and equipment of approved suppliers through financial intermediaries which take
the credit risk. FINAME is, therefore, mainly interested in assuring that the
items to be financed have the required domestic content and the appropriate price.
BNDES Operations
3.14      BNDES has a number of funds and programs for lending to the private
and public sectors, and these operations have varied considerably in recent
years by amount, sector, and region. Approvals of the BNDES' system for the
years 1979 to 1983 are shown in Table 3 in cruzeiros and summarized in Table 4
in US dollar equivalents. The industrial sector received about 47% of BNDES
^esources during the 1979-1983 period, of which the steel and mining industry
accounted for about half. Energy, transportation, and other infrastructure



- 11 -
operations accounted for 38%. However, since 1982, their share has been declining
mainly because the number of new infrastructure projects undertaken by the
Government has been reduced due to budgetary limitations. Social programs
(FINSOCIAL) accounted for 7% and 21% of BNDES operations in 1982 and 1983
respectively, and are expected to account for about 25% in 1984.6/ The Southeast
region-the most highly developed states of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Minas
Gerais--still received most of BNDES resources; however, its share declined to 41%
in 1983 from 57% in 1979.  The share of the Southern region-Parana, Santa
Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul--declined from 27% in 1979 to 17% in 1983. The
Northeast and Northern regions share increased from 20% in 1979 t  34X ir. 1983, as
the Government increased its efforts to develop the poorer regions of Brazil.
FINAME's share of BNDES lending decreased dramatically from the high level of 56Z
in 1980 to only 9% in 1983, while BNDESPAR approvals increase- f-om 6% to 23% in
the same period. There was little demand in Brazil for new purchases of machinery
and equipment in 1983, while there was an urgent need for resources to strengthen
the financial structure of overindebted companies and BNDESPAR provided resources
in the form of share participations and BNDES in the form of long term loans on
reasonable terms for this purpose.
Resources and Financial Performance
3.15      BNDES System sources and uses of funds for 1980 through 1983 and
the budget for 1984 are shown in Table 5 in cruzeiros and summarized in Table 6
in US dollar equivalents. BNDES' internally generated funds (principally loan
repayments and interest and dividend income) account for about half of its total
sources of funds. The composition of the other half has changed significantly
since 1980 with the creation of FINSOCIAL and the assumption by BNDES of
responsibility for administering the Merchant Marine Fund. At the same time, PIS
and PASEP transfers (which are generated by taxes on income and billings of
companies) declined as contributions fell and payments to participants increased,
and Government loans and transfers were reduced as the Government attempted to
reduce the budget deficit. Finally, external loans fell as the international
commercial banks reduced lending to Brazil and BNDES had increasing difficulties
in obtaining foreign credits. In 1983, BNDES received about US$600 million from
taxes collected for FINSOCIAL (generated by a tax of 0.5% on the gross receipts of
public and private companies, financial institutions and insurance companies, and
5% of the income taxes of public and private service companies). It is estimated
that in 1984, BNDES will receive about US$900 million of FINSOCIAL funds of a
total of US$1.5 billion to be collected. The balance of US$600 million is
administered directly by the Ministries of Interior, Health, and Education.
3.16      A forecast of BNDES' sources and uses of funds, including BNDES'
estimated disbursements on loans and investments for 1985 through 1987 is shown in
Table 7.  In 1985, BNDES expects to disburse US$3.93 billion for loans and
investments of which US$0.84 billion would be for direct industrial loans and
US$0.2 billion for SSE accounting for 39% of BNDES' operations excluding
FINSOCIAL. Loans and investments are forecast to rise to US$4.28 billion in 1986
with US$0.95 billion for direct loans for industry and US$0.21 billion for SSE.
The Bank loan would finance about 50% of SSE, but less than 10% of large direct
industrial loans.
3.17      BNDES' audited balance sheets, including and excluding funds
administered for PIS/PASEP, and income statements for 1979 through 1983 are shown
6/ FINSOCIAL taxes began to be collected in August 1982.



- 12 -
in Tables 8, 9, and 10. BNDES administers PIS/PASEP resources for a fee of 0.5%
p.a. of the value of the assets administered which is about BNDES' cost of
administering these resources. It onlends these resources directly and through
financial intermediaries and advances a portion of these resources to its
subsidiaries to carry on their operations. The PIS/PASEP resources must be
invested in assets yielding at least 3% p.a. plus monetary correction, and BNDES
has invested these funds in assets yielding from 5% to 6% p.a. Loans and
investments as of December 31, 1983 (including those financed with PIS/PASEP
funds) amounted to about Cr$13.6 trillion (US$14.3 billion equivalent). BNDES
conducts its own operations, apart from those it finances with PIS/PASEP
resources, with funds borrowed domestically and abroad, government contributions
for special programs, government capital contributions and retained earnings.
Loans and investments outstanding as of December 31, 1983, excluding assets of
PIS/PASEP, amounted to Cr$6.0 trillion (US$6.3 billion equivalent).
3.18      Audited financial statements of BNDES for the twelve months ending
December 31, 1983, show that BNDES incurred an operating loss of about
Cr$495 billion (US$860 million equivalent) and a net loss of Cr$218 billion
(US$380 million equivalent).7/ The difference between the operating loss
and the net loss represents non-operating financial income which BNDES
generated, from short term investments of undisbursed FINSOCIAL funds. This
is not expected to recur in 1984 as FINSOCIAL disbursements are expected to
catch up with the inflow of FINSOCIAL funds. BNDES operating loss was due
to: (i) 1983 foreign exchange losses of US$280 equivalent, (ii) write-off in
1983 of the US$110 million balance of the deferred foreign exchange losses
from the February 1979 maxi-devaluation; (iii) write-down of the book value
of BNDES' investments in controlled companies to reflect the exchange losses
of these companies which amounted to some US$470 million equivalent. BNDES'
total foreign exchange exposure is about US$3 billion, and US$1.6 billion of
this exposure has been passed on to BNDES' customers. BNDES policy is to
pass on the risk of its foreign obligations to its larger customers and it
expects to fully pass on its uncovered foreign exchange risk by the end of
1986 as its loans with a foreign exchange clause are disbursed. The Bank
proposed that BNDES establish an additional charge on its loans to be
credited to a reserve for potential foreign exchange losses incurred between
the time BNDES draws down foreign loans and the risk is passed on to its
larger customers; however, BNDES was not convinced that such a change was needed
at this time. However, agreement was obtained during negotiations that BNDES will
continue its current policies and practices and take other measures which may be
necessary to assure that its foreign exchange exposure is minimized.
3.19      BNDES denominates most of its loans in ORTN equivalents and adjusts
their cruzeiro value monthly for variations in the ORTN value. However, in the
years 1979 and 1983 the ORTN adjustments fell behind inflation which made BNDES'
onlending rates negative in real terms and had a negative impact on the
financial condition of BNDES. To the extent that BNDES invests its funds in ORTN
adjusted assets, whenever ORTN adjustments fall behind inflation, the reflows from
its loans are smaller, in real terms, than the original amounts of its loans.
Thus, BNDES' equity is eroded, in real terms, and less is available for BNDES
7/ In 1982 BNDES operating loss was about US$275 million equivalent,
however, it showed a final net income, before taxes, of US$100 million
equivalent.



- 13 -
subsequent lending operations. This can be seen in Table 8 where BNDES' total
assets (in December 31, 1983 cruzeiros) fell from Cr$17.030 trillion at the end of
1982 to Cr$15.116 trillion at the end of 1983 and BNDES equity declined over the
same period from Cr$4.006 trillion to Cr$3.167 trillion. These changes were
caused by the accounting losses referred to in paragraph 3.18 and the financial
erosion caused by the failure! to adjust the ORTN to fullf reflect inflation. To
deal with the latter problem, it was agreed during negotiations that, as in Loan
2225-BR, the Bank would stop commitments (and eventually disbursements) if ORTN
adjustments fall behind inflation.
3.20      The share of BNDES' loan portfolio affected by arrears increased
significantly between the end of 1979 and 1983 from 4.52 to 16.2% (this last
figure does not take into account loans which were renegotiated and rolled over)
and overdue accounts increased from 0.9% to 2.9% of outstanding loans, principally
because of the current recession. Although BNDES provision for bad debts is
small, i.e. about 0.3% of its outstanding portfolio, BNDES considers, and its
external auditors agcee, that the provision is sufficient since BNDES holds real
guarantees of at least 130% of the loans it makes and, most outstanding loans are
to public companies. BNDES capital structure at the end of 1979 through 1983 is
summarize& below:
Table 3.1: BNDES CAPITAL STRUCTURE
(in US$ billions)
By the end of:
1979   Z   1980   %   1981   Z   1982   Z   1983   %
PIS/PASEP Funds              6.1   46   7.5   51   9.4   56  11.0   53   8.7   54
FINSOCIAL Funds              -      -   -       -   -       -   0.5    -   0.2    1
Long-Term Debt
- Foreign                  2.2   17   2.5   17   2.6   15   2.7   13   2.9   18
- Domestic                 1.9   14   1.6   11   1.3    8   1.3    6   0.8    5
Other Obligations            0.3    2   0.3    2   0.3    2   0.6    3   0.1    1
Equity                       2.7   21   2.8   19   3.2   19   4.9   23   3.3   21
13.2  100  14 .7  17 0  6    100  2l-.   1070  1f6.   1 X
3.21      The main reason for the significant decreas.e in BNDES capital in
1983, expressed in US dollar equivalent, is that the ORTN adjustments in that
year were 156.6% (compared with inflation8/ which was 204%) while the cruzeiro
was devalued 286% in US dollar terms. Nevertheless, BNDES' capital structure
remained sound with a low debt/equity ratio at the end of 1983 of 53/47. Forecast
BNDES' 1984 operating results and income statements show a small profit, assuming
no other maxi-devaluation and that changes in the ORTN index fully reflect
inflation.
8/ Getulio Vargas Foundation
IPA/DI Column 4



- 14 -
Accounting and Audit
3.22      BNDES accounting system is sound and its financial statements are
well prepared. BNDES has a competent internal audit department, which
reports directly to BNDES' President. In addition to its normal internal
auditing functions, BNDES internal auditing department prepares a highly
detailed and useful annual review of BNDTS operations and performance. BNDES
also has its annual accounts audited by competent, independent external
auditors and publishes an annual report of its activities and of those of its
subsidiaries. BNDES has received an unqualified opinion on its accounts in recent
years, except for the deferred foreign exchange losses of 1979 which were fully
written off in 1983. As in Loan 2225-BR, it would be a condition of the loan that
BNDES continue to engage independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
B. BNDES Area of Operations with Agents
Organization, Management and Staffing
3.23        AP-III is the operating area of BNDES responsible for the
analysis, contracting and supervision of operations and programs through
financial intermediaries and of operations with states for increasing the
capital and strengthening the State Development Banks (SDBs) and state
commercial banks with development portfolios. It also supervises the
performance of financial intermediaries and coordinates the provision of
technical and managerial assistance to SDBs. AP-III will be directly
responsible for executing the small and medium scale enterprise (SME)
component of the proposed project.
3.24        AP-III is headed by a 'superintendent- who is the executive
manager of that area, and who reports to the Director of BNDES responsible
for all AP-III operations. AP-III has two departments which divide their
work on a geographical basis.  It is staffed by 110 highly qualified and
competent employees of which 22 are executives, 37 are professionals (12
lawyers, 7 accountants, 10 economists, 6 engineers, and 2 statisticians) and
51 are support staff.
Programs and Operations
3.25        BNDES' operations through financial intermediaries provide the
necessary support for small undertakings in line with the goal of fostering a
more even distribution of economic activity. As part of these operations
AP-III is attempting to strengthen the planning functions of SDBs, their
allocation process and overall operational capability. AP-III's main
operating program to achieve this is its Program of Joint Operations (POC),
which was created in mid-1974, and which channels funds to SME through
financial intermediaries (Investment Banks, State and Regional Development
Banks, and State Commercial Banks with a development portfolio). Within POC,
financial intermediaries can carry out two types of operations: (a)
financing of Brazilian controlled companies (FINEM), and (b) financing of
Brazilian shareholders (FINAC) whereby shareholders use the proceeds of the
loan to acquire shares in the company executing the project being financed.
POC resources can be used to finance fixed investments (civil works and-the
acquisition of machinery and equipment) and permanent working capital and for
the financial strengthening of companies. The financial intermediaries take the



- 15 -
credit risk on POC subloans. Terms and conditions of POC lending operations are
given in Annex 2. Norms governing POC and other AP-III operations which were
agreed with the Bank are spelled out in a consolidated statement of policies and
procedures which is available in the Project File.
3.26        Apart from the POC program which represents about 851 of AP-III's
operations, AP-III also has PROMICRO (Program for Micro Enterprises) which is
designed to finance fixed investments and working capital of very small
undertakings; Resolution 474 which is a program to strengthen the equity base of
SDBs through loans to state governments; and CONSERVE which is designed to
encourage companies to replace petroleum based operations with other energy
sources. AP-III also assists in financing the training programs of ABDE (the
Brazilian Association of Development Banks) and programs to support very small
companies and small and medium exporters carried out by CEBRAE (the Brazilian
Center for Support to Small and Medium Enterprise).
3.27        AP-III operates principally through yearly contracts which it
enters into with participating financial intermediaries through which POC
funds are allocated at the beginning of the year among financial
intermediaries. The contract specifies the total amount of the POC resources
to be made available, the purposes for which the resources are to be used,
onlending terms and spreads, free limits, etc. In its initial allocations
BNDES favors the poorest regions. However, generally after about four months the
allocations are reviewed on the basis of the utilization of the quotas by the
financial intermediaries. The resources allocated to a particular intermediary
which have not been used are then allocated on a first-come-first-served basis.
3.28        AP-III's operations for the years 1979 to 1983 are shown in Table
10. Approvals declined significantly in 1981 and 1982 after reaching maximum
historical levels in 1979/80 as subsidies for SME lending were eliminated and
BNDES budget allocations were reduced. The availability of resources through Loan
2225-BR was instrumental in increasing BNDES' lending for SME in 1983 despite
continued limitations on BNDES' overall lending operations. The increased
availability of funds for financial agents in 1983 resulted in renewed interest on
the part of the Investment Banks to participate in the POC program and their
participation increased from 12% of POC approvals in 1982 to 22% in 1983. There
was a continued shift in POC operations in 1983 from fixed asset investments to
permanent working capital operations reflecting the priority needs of project
beneficiaries in a recessionary environment. There was also a shift of POC
lending from the poor regions of the North and Northeast to the South, Southeast
and Sao Paulo regions reflecting the increased demands in the industrial areas for
working capital and financial restructuring. AP-III programs have shown a
flexible response to the needs of small and medium enterprise through its
operations channelled through the state and regional development banking system.
Operating Procedures
3.29        Formats for subproject appraisal are established by AP-III and
cover all essential data about the enterprise, the project and the subloan.
Since there is some variability in the quality of the appraisals carried out by
the SDBs, AP-III has a number of levels of free limits for financial
intermediaries ranging in subloan amount from 20,000 ORTNs (equivalent to about
US$150,000) for the newer less sophisticated SDBs and lBs to 150,000 ORTNs
(US$1.12 million) for the more experienced and stronger institutions.



- 16 -
For subloans within the free limit, the financial intermediary is only
required to submit to BNDES a summary description of the proposed operation,
in accordance with an established format. These free limits are for subloans
financing fixed assets, permanent working capital or ordinary working
capital. For financial restructuring operations above 30,000 ORTNs
(US$220,000), financial intermediaries are required to submit to BNDES a
special report which includes a detailed analysis of the firm, and financial
forecasts for three years. Operations above the agent's free limit have to
be accompanied by the financial intermediary's detailed appraisal of the
operation and beneficiary. AP-III staff reviews and comments on these
appraisals and prepares a report on the subproject. Operations above 150,000 ORTN
(US$1.12 million) must be approved by BNDES' Board.
3.30        After many years of operations and the training in project
analysis supplied ro financial intermediaries by AP-III staff and the
Brazilian Association of Development Banks (ABDE), project appraisals are
generally of high quality. However, financial intermediaries justify
subprojects primarily on the basis of financial criteria91 (using the same
approach BNDES takes for its direct operations), and sel-?om carry out
economic analyses of projects.  As part of the Second Development Banking
Project-Loan 2225-BR, an action plan was agreed between BNDES and the Bank, by
which AP-III staff in cooperation with ABDE would train the staff of the financial
intermediaries to perform economic evaluation of projects so that BNDES could
require such evaluations for subprojects above the free limits. With the help of
EDI, ABDE organized a seminar and some training courses for the SDBs in economic
analysis. Staff from a number of the SDBs were trained in the methodology;
however, a more systematic series of training and technical assistance is needed
before including an economic analysis as part of the normal operating procedures
of the SDBs for the larger projects they finance. During negotiations, the Bank
agreed with BNDES on a plan of action for strengthening the SDBs (para. 4.11)
includ,ing a program of training to be carried out through ABDE to train the staff
of the SDBs how to do economic analysis of the projects they finance. Bank staff
would assist ABDE in defining the length, content and number, etc. of training
courses to be held in 1985 and possibly early 1986 to train staff of the
principal, and more sophisticated SDBs, in the methodology for doing economic
analysis. These staff, possibly with technical assistance supplied through ABDE
would apply the methodology gradually in their SDBs.   At a later stage, staff
from the smaller, less sophisticated SDBs could be seconded to the SDBs which had
introduced the new methodology for on-the-job training. The initial objective
would be to have the SDBs provide by June 30, 1986 an economic analysis whenever
the cost of the investment project to be financed is above 350,000 ORTN (US$2.5
million). Prior to that date, the Bank would finance projects costing more than
350,000 ORTN on the basis of a detailed appraisal including a financial analysis
and financial rate of return calculation.
3.31        AP-III's supervision of financial intermediaries' performance is
carried out through periodic reporting requirements and field visits. Over
the years, the emphasis given by AP-III to supervision has shifted from a
review of specific subprojects and programs financed by BNDES to the
institutional/financial strengths and weaknesses of the intermediaries
themselves. AP-III is concentrating its efforts more on analyzing the overall
resource requirements of the system of financial intermediaries, their policies
9/ As well as technical and operational soundness.



- 17 -
and procedures, development roles within their spheres of influence and the
technical capacity of their staff. AP-III also carries out a review of the
program it finances with a particular agent, paying attention to the use of the
resources transferred, evaluating the results of the program in terms of growth in
installed capacity, capital formation, employment generation, etc. Finally,
AP-III reviews specific subprojects financed with its resources, including
compliance with the subloan contract, disbursement conditions, adequacy of
guarantees and insurance, supervision carried out by the financial intermediary
etc.
3.32        AP-III normally relies on the procurement procedures of :he
financial agents which are based upon the normal commercial practice of
project beneficiaries who purchase from the most advantageous source after
canvassing alternative sources of supply. Subloan disbursement requests
received from financial intermediaries include a list of the documents
supporting such requests. The original documents are retained by the agents
and AP-III staff as well as BNDES internal and external auditors review these
documents on periodic supervision missions, normally on a sample basis. From
time to time AP-III staff also visit selected project beneficiaries in order
to supervise the works financed and to check the adequacy of the agents'
procedures and subproject supervision. BNDES' external auditors long form
report provides a separate opinion in respect of subproject disbursements,
expenditures, and the quality of records kept, and in 1983 its opinion was
unqualified. Procurement and disbursement procedures of AP-III and the
financial intermediaries are acceptable and there has been smooth disbursement of
the proceeds of previous Bank loans.
C.   BNDES Area of Industrial Operations
Organization, Management and Staffing
3.33        AP-I is the operating area of BNDES responsible for the analysis,
contracting, and supervision of the direct industrial operations of BNDES.
It is headed by a superintendent who reports to the Director of BNDES
responsible for AP-I operations. AP-I has three departments: Chemical
Industries, Metallurgy and Mining, and Traditional and Capital Goods
Industries. It has 141 highly qualified and competent staff, of which 78 are
professionals (23 engineers, 12 economists, 17 lawyers, and 26
accountants/financial analysts), and 63 are support staff.
Programs and Operations
3.34        AP-I resources are normally used to finance civil works,
permanent or ordinary working capital, and financial restructuring. Many
AP-I operations are financed jointly with BNDES' subsidiaries, i.e. FINAME
which finances machinery and equipment, and BNDESPAR, which makes equity
participations. AP-I also provides guarantees to industrial enterprises for
other loans taken by these enterprises. Terms and conditions of AP-I lending
operations are given in Annex 2.
3.35        AP-I lending operations for the years 1979 to 1983 are shown in
Table 12. They represented about 21% of BNDES-system approvals and 27Z of
disbursements. Metallurgy and Mining accounted for 8OZ of AP-I approvals while
Chemical Industries and Traditional and Capital Goods accounted for 14% and 6X



- 18 -
respectively. AP-I's lending operations reached a peak in 1981 when they
accounted for a third of approvals. Because of the credit and budgetary
restrictions of the Government, and because increasing shares of BNDES resources
have been directed to complete investments of public enterprises and
infrastructure projects, BNDES' funds for private sector industrial firms have
been curtailed in recent years. Nevertheless, AP-I still represents BNDES' most
important department in terms of lending volume.
Operating Procedures
3.36        BNDES has established appraisal procedures, and formats for
appraisal reports. When BNDES receives a request to support a project, it is
analyzed first by its Planning Department to determine whether it falls
within the sectoral priorities established by the Government. The Planning
Department prepares a Project Brief which is analysed by the "Commissao de
Prioridade" or Priority Commission; the "Commissao", which is composed of the
Superintendents and Department Heads of BNDES lending areas and the heads of
the Planning and Financial Departments, reviews the Planning Department
report, and approves or rejects the request for financial support depending
on whether the proposed project meets the general sectoral priorities
criteria. If approved, the prospective borrower prepares his project in
detail. When the project has been fully prepared, BNDES staff prepares an
appraisal report which is submitted to BNDES' President or Board. Loans of
up to 150,000 ORTN (US$1.12 million) are approved by BNDES' President, and loans
over this limit by BNDES' Board.
3.37        BNDES staff carries out regular supervision visits during the
project implementation period as well as during operation and requires its
borrowers to submit periodic progress reports. BNDES verifies that goods and
services procured under the project are competitive in price and quality, and
are appropriate for the purpose intended. It also assures that the proceeds
of financing are used only for the goods and services authorized by BNDES at
the time of loan approval.
IV.  THE STATE AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS AND THE INVESTMENT BANKS
A. The State and Regional Development Banks
Organization, Management and Staffing
4.01      In response to a need for institutions which could provide term
finance at the regional or local level, a number of state and regional
development banks (SDBs) was established in the 1960s. In 1968 the Central Bank
formally regulated the constitution and functions of SDBs. The system now
consists of 12 state development banks, 2 state and 2 federal regional development
banks and 11 state commercial banks with development portfolios. A list of these
institutions is given in Annex 3. The SDB's objectives include promoting and
assisting the development of agricultural, industrial and service enterprises;
encouraging and promoting import substitution and export oriented projects;
stimulating private investments in the basic sectors of the economy; and
supporting public sector infrastructure projects. To accomplish these objectives,
the SDBs engage in short and long term lending, share capital financing and
underwriting, and provide local and foreign currency guarantees.



- 19 -
4.02      Each SDB is governed by an assembly of shareholders assisted by a
fiscal council. In most SDBs, management authority is delegated to a
collegial directorate, consisting of from three to seven directors and a
president. Each director is responsible for the operations of a functional
area or areas and the president is chairman of the board.  The full board w
meets periodically to discuss policy matters. The system works well in some
states where a number of the directors are career officers of the SDBs. In
other states where the Board is replaced with each change of state
government, often by individuals without appropriate background or
experience, management is usually weaker. In recent years, ABDE has carried
out special management training programs for new director appointees which
has greatly helped the transition process in some SDBs. Nevertheless, BNDES,
through AP-III, has for some time, been attempting to use its influence to require
that Board members meet minimum professional qualifications and that a number be
career officers of the SDB. Staff quality differs among SDBs. In the larger
banks, particularly in the more developed areas, staff quality is reasonably, and
in some cases very, high. In some SDBs, staff is relatively inexperienced, in
some cases because salary scales are not always competitive with the private
sector. Through its training programs, ABDE has helped greatly to improve the
capabilities of the staff of the SDBs and the Bank and BNDES will cooperate with
ABDE to assure that its work is continued and expanded in the future.
Appraisal, Supervision and Audit
4.03      The SDBs normally follow the format established by BNDES for
project appraisal work. Appraisal standards for larger SDBs are usually
satisfactory and through ABDE programs staff of the newer and smaller SDBs
have been trained in the various elements of appraisal work. Although there
has been significant improvement in recent years in the SDB's ability to
assess the technical aspects of projects, the SDBs generally focus on the
financial aspects and the borrowers' creditworthiness and the collateral he
can offer. In determining the economic viability of projects, SDBs are
guided by the sectoral priorities established by the Federal Government in
projects financed with BNDES and Central Bank funds, their own views on state
priorities or those set by the State Planning Departments. Only a few of the SDBs
calculate the economic rate of return of projects and only for the larger projects
they finance. However, as part of the Plan of Action for SDBs (para. 3.30), BNDES
proposes to work with ABDE to train staff of the SDBs so that they will be able to
carry out such analysis by June 30, 1986.
4.04      In checking procurement, the SDBs rely mainly upon the normal
commercial practice of their customers to shop around for the best quality
goods and services at the lowest price. The SDBs complement this activity by
having their engineers review the proposed equipment and civil works design
and contractors' bids to determine the appropriateness of the technology
adopted, costs, quality and project scope. All of the SDBs have established
project supervision procedures, which have been much improved with the
assistance of ABDE in the smaller and newer SDBs in recent years. The
development banks also have established disbursement procedures which are
adequate. Loaw disbursements are mostly made in installments and are only
authorized upon demonstration of satisfactory progress (which is usually
checked by periodic inspections during project implementation) and evidence
that loan conditions have been met. All of the SDBs also have independent
external auditors.



- 20 -
Operations
4.05      Total commitments of the SDBs, excluding Banco do Nordeste which does
not separate its development from its commercial operations, averaged US$2.8
billion a year between 1978 and 1982, reaching a maximum of US$3.5 billion in
1980, but fell to US$1.6 billion in 1983. Disbursements in these years averaged
US$2.4 billion per annum.
4.06      Commitments have been on average, 41% for public enterprises (mostly for
infrastructure investments), and the balance private sector loans (rural 13Z,
industry 31% and other 15%). The SDBs have been an important factor in
development, both with their own resources and with those transferred from public
institutions.
Resources and Financial Position
4.07      The resource structure of the SDBs has undergone some change in
recent years.
Table 4.1: RESOURCE STRUCTURE OF SDBs
(US$ millions)
December 31, 1983
1978         X          1983         2
Deposits                         56.0         1.4       975.5        19.2
Loans - Central Bank            456.1        11.7       159.6         3.1
BNDES                 1,069.9       27.6        352.6        6.9-
BNH (Housing Bank)      287.0        7.4      1,084.7       21.4
FINAME                  911.3       23.4      1,037.8        20.4
Other                   249.5        6.4        288.7        5.7
2,973.8       76.5      2,923.4       57.5
Foreign loans                    81.4         2.1       420.0         8.3
Financial and other funds       217.1         5.6       333.9         6.6
Equity                          558.8        14.4       427.4         8.4
3,887.1      100.0      5,080.2      100.0
4.08      Because of limitations on AP-III lending, BNDES share of the
resources supplied to SDBs has declined in recent years. Whereas at the end
of 1978, BNDES and FINA E together, accounted for 51% of the resources made
available to SDBs, by the end of 1983 the total had declined to 27.3%. This
decline was offset by a large increase in deposits and foreign loans. Begiming
in 1980, the SDBs began to obtain significant amounts of resources by issuing



- 21 -
certificates of deposits both locally and in the major financial centers. At the
same time the SDBs increased their operations with foreign funds, although almost
all of such operations are accounted for by four banks, BDMG (Minais Gerais),
BADESP (Sao Paulo), BADEP (Parana) and BRDE (regional development bank of the
extreme south). Both the certificates of deposit and foreign loans have been used
to make short term, mainly working capital, loans.
4.09      In 1983 the financial condition of the SDBs was greatly affected by
the third consecutive year of recession. Operations declined as limitations
were placed on the growth of credit to the public sector to reduce the fiscal
deficit. This in turn made it impossible to roll over the debt of public
sector enterprises   At the  ame time many private sector enterprises had
great difficulty meeting their financial obligations because of reduced
activity, extremely high financial charges and liquidity problems. As a
result, the levels of overdue accounts of the SDBs increased by almost 400%
in 1983. Finally the SDBs had increasing difficulty in renewing their
certificates of deposit in 1983 because of the failure to adjust the ORTN
index (the adjustment index for CDs) to fully reflect inflation in the second
half of 1983. Investors sought other shorter term instruments with higher
returns.
4.10      Because of these developments, a number of the SDBs suffered losses in
1983, their debt/equity ratios exceeded in some cases the legal limit of 15:1 and
overdue accounts exceeded their equity. Selected financial data and ratios are
given for the principal SDBs in Table 13. They show that not only the smaller
SDBs in Maranhao, Rio Grande do Norte, and Goias are in weakened financial
conditions but also some of the larger, more important SDBs such as those in Sao
Paulo and Rio. For BADESP (Sao Paulo) and BD-RIO (Rio de Janeiro), overdue
accounts were 167% and 251% respectively of their equity. It is probable that the
condition of the SDBs will improve as the Brazilian economy recovers; however,
many are having financial problems and most liquidity problems. A number will
need to be restructured when the financial conditions of the state governments
improves (para 4.11).
4.11      Although BNDES developed a Plan of Action in 1982 to monitor and
attempt to strengthen the financial condition of the SDBs, it was unable to
influence their financial policies or make serious efforts to strengthen
their financial conditions. Because of its own budget constraints, BNDES'
resources for its POC operations were seriously limited in 1981 and 1982 and the
SDBs turned to the certificate of deposit market and to external credits to
finance their operations. BNDES' ability to influence SDB's policies was reduced
in proportion to its ability to supply resources. Moreover, its efforts to
strengthen the capital structures of the SDBs was thwarted by lack of resources at
the state level.10i It is now concentrating its efforts in three areas:
supporting the training of SDB staff to strengthen their project evaluation and
administration capabilities; providing more term resources through the SDBs for
investment and the financial strengthening of their customers; and, when the
financial condition of the state government improves, making loans to them for
equity participations in the SDBs to improve their financial structures. AP-III
10/ Through its Strengthening of Financial Agents Program, BNDES lends money
to the state governments to be used to purchase stock in the SDBs.
However, each cruzeiro of BNDES must be complemented by state government
funds.



- 22 -.
prepared a plan of action for upgrading the SDBs (covering training, financial
management, project appraisal and supervision, arrears control, planning and
budgeting, promotion, etc.), which was reviewed during negotiations and found
acceptable. AP-III also carried out a study of the interest charges and financial
spreads given to the financial intermediaries on POC operations including
recommended increases to strengthen the finances of the SDBs. The proposals were
reviewed during negotiations and agreed upon. The new interest rates and spreads
were submitted to BNDES' Board and approved. It was also agreed that Bank funds
would not be used to finance subprojects of SDBs which do not meet the financial
standards established by the Central Bank (e.g. debt not in excess of fifteen
times equity).
The Development Banking Association
4.12      ABDE was established in 1969 in order to promote the operational
and institutional strengthening of its members, administer a program to train
executives and technical staff and assist in establishing and applying
ethical standards and regulations of conduct. It also represents the
development banks with the Government and large financial institutions
(BENDES, BNH, Central Bank, etc.). ABDE has 28 members including BNDES, the
12 state development banks, 11 state banks with development portfolios and
the 4 regional development banks. It has a staff of 40, working principally
on economic studies and in administering training and technical assistance
programs. Indoctrination courses for new management are also given. ABDE
basically manages the courses which are given by professors of several
universit-es with which ABDE maintains close relations, educational and
research foundations and, most importantly, by the professional staff of the
more experienced development banks.
4.13      ABDE also manages a technical program in the areas of planning,
financial administration, administration of human resources, and organization
systems and methods. This assistance is actually given by teams provided by
the more experienced development banks. The ABDE programs have been
instrumental in training staff of the development banks and in transferring
the latest management techniques to the newer and less sophisticated
development banks. In September 1983 it organized a seminar given by EDI
staff in development banking and project analysis. A number of staff of the
SDBs was trained in the fundamentals of economic analysis of projects and
they are programmed to give additional courses to staff of the SDBs in these
techniques in 1985/86.
B. Investment Banks
4.14      Investment banks (IBs) were created simultaneously with the SDBs as
a second set of first-tier institutions aimed primarily at meeting the
investment needs of the Brazilian private sector. Of 37 IBs, 28 belong to
commercial banking groups, including one SDB, and 9 are independent. With a few
exceptions, IBs are in generally sound financial conditions. As of December 31,
1983, IBs had combined assets of US$9.6 billion, including US$1.4 billion of
equity and US$8.2 of liabilities of which US$4.3 billion were certificates of
deposit, US$0.6 billion loans from BACEN, BNDES (including FINAME) and BNH
transfers, US$2.7 billion from foreign borrowing, and US$0.6 of other
liabilities. In addition, they had granted guarantees of US$675 million. Of the



- 23 -
transfers from BNDES appearing in IB's balance sheets some US$91 million had been
from AP-III's POC program.
4.15      Investment banks have two main areas of operations, lending and capital
markets, the latter including underwriting operations and the management of Fiscal
Funds. Their lending operations are mostly short term reflecting their sources of
funding which are mainly short term certificates of deposit. The IBs also channel
resources of the BACEN, BNDES and BNH for specific longer term operations.
Because of the limited financial spreads and the shortage of resources for these
programs they now represent only 6% of IB's resources. However, because of the
greater availability of resources beginning in 1983, IBs are again interested in
participating in POC programs and utilized some 23% of POC funds in 1983 compared
with only 17.8% in 1981. IBs would also participate in the program financed under
the proposed project. Only a few of the larger IBs are expected to finance
investment projects above 350,000 ORTN which would require an economic analysis.
These IBs could be expected to make their own arrangements and if necessary engage
qualified personnel to include such an analysis if they wish to submit such
projects to BNDES for financing.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Previous Bank Operations with BNDES
5.01      The Bank's first loan to BNDES to finance small and medium scale
enterprises dates back to February 10, 1976, when the Bank approved the First
Development Banking Project Loan (No. 1206-BR). The loan was not fully committed
mainly because, between 1976-1980, the bulk of BNDES lending programs for SME
carried heavily subsidized and negative real interest rates. Furthermore, because
of budgetary constraints and other priorities, BNDES was also unable to fully
comply with its institution building undertakings under the loan, and in 1980,
after disbursing about 37% of the loan, the balance was cancelled. However, the
Bank made efforts to maintain a close dialogue with the new management of BNDES
that took office in the spring of 1979, first to attempt to remedy the problems
that affected Loan 1206-BR, and then to develop a new project that would retain
the basic objectives of the first loan. On December 21, 1982 the Bank approved a
Second Development Banking Project loan for US$220 million (Loan 2225-BR) for
BNDES to mainly finance small and medium enterprises (SME) through a system of
state and regional development banks (SDBs) and to help further strengthen the
institutional capabilities of SDBs and assure a more rigorous economic analysis of
at least the larger projects financed.
5.02      As of November 30, 1984, US$186 million equivalent of the loan had been
committed, and US$175 million had been disbursed (including the US$25 million
advance in a Special Account in BACEN). The loan has disbursed rapidly since
March 1983 when the Bank increased its financing from 50% to 67% of subloans for
fixed assets and related working capital and from 12.5%! to 50% of subloans for
permanent working capital only. This was done as part of the Special Action
Program in accordance with which the Bank in December 1983 agreed to finance 50%
of subloans for financial restructuring operations in certain cases to improve the
maturity structure of the debts of basically sound firms with liquidity problems.
The loan is expected to be fully committed by end March 1985 and fully disbursed
by late 1985. As of June 30, 1984, some 51% of the loan had been used for working



- 24 -
capital and 4% for financial restructuring loans for SME during a time when
limited investments for plant and equipment were being made due to the severe
recession. Funds were needed and were supplied on reasonable terms through the
POC program to rebuild inventories to maintain or regain capacity utilization and
employment levels or to restructure a firm's debt by making a term loan at a
reasonable interest rate to pay short term obligations to suppliers and to
refinance short term obligations to SDBs (the short term loans made by the SDBs
were financed by certificates of deposit issued during the period when POC lacked
term resources due to BNDES budget cuts). Disbursements in these restructuring
cases were limited to purchases of inventories in the preceding six months. Loan
resources were used principally for small scale (87%), industrial (89%),
operations for investment and the maintenance of firms and of their levels of
capacity utilization. Actual commitments and disbursements of POC for 1983 and
estimates for 1984 and 1985 are shown in Table 14.
B. The Project
Project Objectives
5.03      The basic objectives of the project would be as follows:
(a)  To provide term credit on reasonable terms to larger manufacturing
companies to initiate a program to export or increase exports and to support
investments to help maintain and expand Brazil's export drive. BNDES' resources
would be supplemented to meet the financial needs of larger industrial
enterprises, to purchase inventories at reasonable prices to permit firms to
initiate a program to export or increase production for export, and to buy
specialized equipment, introduce quality control systems, etc. to re-orient
production or adapt it to the needs of foreign markets.
(b)  To provide additional resources for SME after Loan 2225-BR is fully
committed.
(c)  To establish in BNDES the procedures and capability for doing economic
analysis of projects along lines acceptable to BNDES and the Bank so that
appropriate economic (as well as technical, administrative, financial and other)
criteria can be taken into account in making investment financing decisions.
(d) To continue the process started in Loan 2225-BR of extending the
capability and procedures in the SDBs for doing economic evaluations for the
larger projects they finance.
C. The Proposed Loan
Borrower, Executing Agency and Onlending Terms
5.04      As in Loan 2225-BR, the Borrower would be the Federative Republic
of Brazil and the Executing Agency would be BNDES.  The Government through
BACEN, would make cruzeiros available to BNDES equivalent to the amounts withdrawn
from the Bank loan at the exchange rate prevailing when disbursement requests are
presented to the BACEN. Arrangements between the Government and BNDES
satisfactory to the Bank for transferring and repaying the resources would be a
condition of effectiveness.  Principal and interest payments on the Bank loan
would be made by BNDES and BNDES would take the foreign exchange risk. Subloans



- 25 -
by BNDES would be principally made in cruzeirosll/ adjusted for cr.anges in the
ORTN index with interest at 6% to 10% p.a. (direct operations through AP-I) or at
the rates shown in Annex 2 (for operations through financial agents). Since the
ORTN index is adjusted monthly to reflect domestic inflation, BNDES lending rates
would be positive in real terms.
5.05      BNDES onlending terms and conditions to financial agents and by
these to beneficiaries would be in accordance with AP-III/POC policies and
procedures and BNDES onlending terms and conditions for direct operations
would be in accordance with API policies and procedures. Both are modified
from time to time to reflect prevailing conditions in Brazilian capital
markets. Current onlending terms are as shown in Annex 2. For direct
operations BNDES finances up to 50% of the cost of the total investment (up
to 60% where a BNDES' guarantee is made) for up to 20 years (up to 15 years for
subloans the Bank finances) depending upon the economic life of the investment
including up to 18 months of grace after project implementation. For operations
through financial agents, lending rates to project beneficiaries range from 6% to
12% depending upon the type of operation, geographical region and size of
enterprise, and spreads for the financial agents are from 2.5% to 5% p.a. BNDES
finances from 50% to 80% of the total investment, depending upon the geographical
region, with loans up to 10 years including up to 3 years of grace. Agreement
was reached during negotiations that the Bank and BNDES will review these rates,
terms and spreads periodically and make any changes which may be required in order
to maintain a reasonable relationship between BNDES' rates and market rates in
Brazil. A consolidated statement of AP-It's policies and procedures and lending
policies were also reviewed and agreed upon during loan negotiations.
Amount of Loan and Counterpart
5.36      The Bank loan of US$300 million equivalent would have two components.
The first of about US$200 million would finance the balance of the POC program for
1985, and part of 1986, after Loan 2225-BR, funds had been fully committed. The
other approximately US$100 million would finance a share of direct loans budgeted
for 1985 and early 1986 for larger private sector manufacturing companies to
initiate a program to export or increase exports as shown in Table 5.1.
11/ In some cases BNDES subloans are adjusted for changes in the Cr$/US$ or
other foreign currency, with interest at BNDES cost of funds plus a
spread.



- 26 -
Table 5.1
Benefi-      Total
Bank       BNDES      ciaries   Project Cost
(US$ million)
POC
Fixed assets and related
working capital                98.2        49.1         98.2      245.5
Working capital only             100.0      100.0        133.3      333.3
-198.      _14.1         231.5       .78.8
Direct Loans to Larger
Private Sector Companies
Fixed assets and related
working capital                42.7        21.0         63.7      127.4
Working capital only              57.3       57.3        114.6      229.2
100.0       78.3        178.3      356.6
Technical assistance and
front-end fee                   1.8         -            -          1.8
300.0     T227.4        409.8      937.2
5.07      The loan would support a program totalling an estimated US$937 million.
Bank and BNDES resources would cover on average 60X of the total cost of eligible
subprojects for SME and 50% for large enterprises. The Bank loan would cover 67%
of BNDES disbursements for fixed assets and permanent working capital subprojects
and 50% of subprojects for working capital only. The Bank loan would cover about
32% of the cost of eligible subprojects.   This percentage is above the estimated
foreign exchange component of 20%, but is justified so that the Bank can make a
reasonable contribution to the cost of projects submitted for financing. The
provision of counterpart would be automatic as the Bank would reimburse BNDES for
a share of its loans already made.
Financial Intermediaries and Beneficiaries
5.08      Eligible financial intermediaries would be the state and regional
development banks, state commercial banks with development portfolios and
investment banks which currently participate in POC programs. The proposed
loan would provide term financing to small and medium Brazilian owned or
controlled enterprises with fixed assets, including the new investment being
financed, not exceeding 500,000 ORTN12/ (about US$3.7 million), in all
productive, distributive and service activities except agriculture and housing;
large Brazilian owned or controlled industrial enterprises for investments
financed through financial agents up to 1.5 million ORTN (about US$11.0 million);
and large private, Brazilian-owned or controlled industrial enterprises with
12/ Provided they do not belong to a group with equity above one million
ORTN.



- 27 -
which receive resources directly from BNDES to initiate a program to export or
increase exports.
Loan Repayment
5.09      There are expected to be about 2,500 subloans of which some 2,470
would be through 59 eligible financial agents. This would make the use of a
composite amortization schedule impractical and BNDES has requested a fixed
amortization schedule. The proposed loan would therefore have a fixed
15-year maturity including 3 years grace.
Subloan Approval Procedures
5.10      In accordance with its Project Evaluation Plan for introducing
cost-benefit analysis and economic rate of return calculations into its project
analysis, BNDES would not be required to include a cost-benefit analysis in the
direct industrial subprojects submitted to the Bank for financing until June 30,
1986. In order to support projects of companies which have demonstrated the
efficiency of their operations in economic terms, until this requirement is met,
the Bank would normally authorize only industrial subp'-ojects financed directly by
BNDES for firms which have exported at least 10% of their sales in one or more of
the preceding three years. Also, subproject evaluations would be required to
include detailed financial forecasts and a financial rate of return calculation.
Until subprojects directly financed by BNDES under the project include a
cost-benefit analysis, the Bank would limit its approvals for disbursement to
subloans for directly financed industrial subprojects totalling not more than
US$50 million and to not more than US$100 million for SME. After June 30, 1986,
the Bank would provide finance to large privately controlled industrial
enterprises which have a program to export or expand or reorient production for
export.  Because this would be the first loan to finance large direct industrial
operations of BNDES, involving newly established procedures for including an
economic analysis, there would be no free limit for subloans to such enterprises
until the Bank had received and approved the first five subprojects which included
an economic evaluation and the Bank had reviewed progress in carrying out the
Project Evaluation Plan and found it acceptable. During negotiations it was
agreed that such a review would be carried out by September 30, 1986 with a view
to establishing such a free limit and the Bank's information requirements for
subprojects below this limit. In Loan 2225-BR, the Bank's free limit for
operations through AP-III was based upon the size of BNDES' subloans and a number
of relatively large projects were financed with Bank resources on the basis of a
limited analysis. In this operation, for subloans through financial
intermediaries for investment projects above 350,000 ORTN (about US$2.5 million),
BNDES would send to the Bank its evaluation and the financial agent's evaluation,
which would include, after June 30, 1986, ar. appropriate economic evaluation of
the investment project. Until June 30, 1986 subloan applications for projects
costing more than 350,000 ORTN would include detailed financial forecasts and a
financial rate of return calculation. For projects costing less than 350,000 ORTN
where BNDES' subloan exceeds BNDES' free limit with the financial agent, BNDES
would send the financial agent's evaluation (without an economic evaluation) and
its evaluation. For other smaller subloans through AP-III, the Bank would be sent
a copy of BNDES' proj ect summary. It is expected that overall the Bank would
review about 30 to 35 subprojects (about 2 per month over the commitment period)
and representing about 40% of the Bank loan.



- 28 -
Procurement
5.11      The Bank loan -would finance the indirect foreign exchange costs of
subprojects and direct imports only in a few cases. Bank resources would finance
principally civil works and inventories as most machinery and equipment included
in subprojects would be financed, not with Bank resources, but through FINANE, a
BNDES subsidiary which finances domestically manufactured equipment with more than
85% Brazilian content. Such machinery and equipment would not be eligible for
financing with Bank resources. However, machinery and equipment financed directly
by BNDES (which would be mainly imported) would be eligible for financing under
the loan if, for contracts above US$2 million equivalent it was procured using
international shopping procedures including at least three bids, of which at least
two bids from foreign suppliers. In the case of civil works, the Brazilian
construction industry is highly developed and as a result, few if any, foreign
contractors would bid except on very large civil works contracts and many would be
dissuaded even in these cases from bidding because of the low capacity utilization
of the Brazilian construction industry. In the case of inventories, Brazilian
companies obtain their raw materials in most cases from established domestic or
foreign sources of supply or engage in domestic or international shopping as a
matter of established business practice. BNDES considers, and we agree, that the
procurement practices of its private sector clients are adequate to assure that
the goods and services it finances are obtained in an efficient manner. BNDES
reviews the procurement of goods it finances ex post to assure that they are
competitive in price and quality and are appropriate for the purpose intended.
Procurement for civil works and inventories would therefore be in accordance with
standard practice for loans to DFCs and would follow normal commercial practices
of private sector enterprises, the beneficiaries of the loan.
Disbursement
5.12      Bank disbursements would be for 67% of BNDES' disbursements to
finance fixed assets and related permanent working capital and 50% of BNDES'
disbursements to finance permanent working capital only.  In order to assure that
a minimum number of subprojects will be financed with Bank resources, Bank
financing would be limited to 1 million ORTN (US$7.5 million) for any subproject
to any company or related group.  Expenditures made not more than 180 days prior
to Bank receipt of the request for subproject authorization would be eligible, but
in no case would disbursements be made for expenditures prior to the date of the
loan. Bank disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure. As in
Loan 2225-BR, as part of its audit covenant, BNDES will be required to agree that
its external auditors will, as part its annual audit, give an opinion as to
whether statements of expenditure can be fairly relied upon to support
applications for reimbursement. In any case, especially for the large direct
BNDES' operations, Bank supervision missions would check a sample of statements of
during which BNDES would finance the Bank's share of subloans with its own
resources, a Special Account would be opened in BACEN with an initial deposit of
up to US$35 million and BNDES may req6iest the Bank to make disbursements in
dollars from the loan account into this Special Account to cover both foreign and
local expenditures. The Special Account would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
5.13      The Bank loan is expected to be committed in about 24 months and
disbursed in about four years. Disbursements under the Second Development Banking
Project (Loan 2225-BR) reached 74% by November 30, 1984, as against the 25%



- 29 -
expected to be disbursed on the basis of the disbursement profile for IDF loans.
Full disbursement is thus expected in two years as opposed to the normal profile
of six years. The second project was for SME enterprises while the proposed loan
will include financing also for working capital and minor plant expansions for
larger projects. Based on BNDES' experience with the latter type of project, it
is expected that the proposed loan will be disbursed somewhat slower than the
second project but considerably faster than the normal profile as shown in Table
15. The final date for submission of approval requests would be December 31, 1987
and the closing date would be December 31, 1989.
D. Project Benefits and Risks
5.14      The proposed loan would supplement the limited resources of BNDES which
is at present practically the only financial institution that provides mediur and
long-term financing to industry. By improving access by efficient export
manufacturers to term credit on reasonable terms, the project would support the
re-orientation of production needed to raise the export competitiveness of
Brazilian manufacturers. It would make a significant contribution to sustaining
the incipient export-led recovery of industrial production and employment. The
loan would also finance viable small and medium-scale enterprise to expand
efficient domestic market production. The upgrading of economic capabilities
within BNDES and the SDBs and the changes in procedures in these institutions to
make more use of economic analysis in project selection and evaluation, beside
representing a major institutional change in the Brazilian national system of
development banks, would greatly contribute to improving overall allocation of
investment resources in Brazil.
5.15      The major risk associated with the project arises from the fact that
internal institutional opposition could undermine or delay the application by
BNDES and other investment decision-making institutions of appropriate economic
criteria in project selection and evaluation. Gradual introduction of the new
evaluation procedures coupled with appropriate staff training and process
monitoring are designed to help mitigate this risk. Bank staff would be available
to as-ost BNDES in the implementation of the new project evaluation procedures.
There is also a risk that the Government may fail to adjust the ORTN to fully
reflect domestic inflation. This occurred for several months during the latter
part of 1983, but the Government resumed full indexation following discussions
with the Bank and the realization of the negative impact of their action in the
financial markets. Covenants on the indexation of financial assets included in
many Bank loans would help reduce this risk. It was further agreed during
negotiations that if the adjustment of the principal of BNDES' loans, together
with the interest rates applicable to such loans shall, in the Bank's opinion,
fail to be positive in relation to the prevailing inflation rate in Brazil,
commitments and disbursements could be suspended.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiatior.s, agreement was reached on the following
matters:
(a) With the Government on:
(i) Arrangements for making the Bank loan available to BNDES
including the onlending terms (para 5.04); and



-30 -
(ii) Arrangements for establishing a Special Account in the Central
Bank for making disbursements and replenishments and for auditing
the Special Account (para 5.12).
(b) With BNDES on:
(i) Project Evaluation Plan for introducing procedures and
organizational arrangements for doing economic evaluations of
projects (para 3.10);
(ii)  Undertaking to minimize BNDES' foreign exchange exposure (para.
3.18);
(iii)  Mechanism for suspending subloan commitments and disbursements
(para. 3.19);
(iv)  External audit arrangements including arrangements foi auditing
statements of expenditure (paras. 3.22 and 5.12);
(v) AP-III's Plan of Action for upgrading the State Development Banks
(paras. 3.30, 4.03 and 4.11);
(vi)  Financial standards SDBs must meet to be eligible for
participating in the project (para. 4.11);
(vii)  AP-I's operating policies and procedures and lending terms
(-a.a. 5.05);
(viii) Arrangements for reviewing AP-I and AP-III lending rates (para.
5.05);
(ix)  Free limits and approval procedures for subloans (para.5.10);
(x) Procurement procedures (para. 5.11); and
(xi)  Disbursement procedures and percentages financed (para. 5.12).
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
6.02      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) Approval by BNDES' Board of Directors of the detailed Project
Evaluation Plan referred to in para. 3.11; and
(b) Arrargements between the Government and BNDES acceptable to the
Bank for making loan proceeds available to BNDES (para. 5.04).
Recommendation
6.03      With the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$300 million to the Federative Republic of
Brazil on the terms and conditions shown in Chapter V.



- Ul -
s m   ilKM  Mr= 
Amilar 
Tuns vmm m~ 8~Iw
ussr -    Isom wI
w~~~mi Eta   mzmiimLO   Anmu
-   u -           No seamm"ma-
WUUI5UUG        mm         ~      r"   m zwn
I -
Or
nlwasmmr nw J.l              y    m w
4ml ---mi
-m  - Damn= 
in*L _                                                I  GMT
- I L- m   s 
_UE LI
_tv~~~~~a                             V
1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ X _nofm r
1  1         l                         I,   '_         0 or BON&M
.  l   _     D -F_so"I
. _ _ I__U10 = g  . S XS _i
morQ  -                      O      __ ._ 
.. _ _ _ . _mrla    _r           _      -mazrg
1s1_ _ _ 0 1 _ .-
.1 1 MAl



MAZIL
STAFF APA ISAL RWt
THIRD tlEVELllEt AMCiO FJECT
Oesrlptln of Principal Opoertlons of  MQ1S Project   as  I and III
PFOJECt AIA III                                                          FROJCT AEA I
Program                                             FinAncing Smll and ldiudm Entrprlsos                                  Financing Larg  Entoeprlso
Purpose                            Financing of fixEd       Financing af pmanrert   Financig of finoncial   Fitancing fixed assets   Financig of peranont   Financing large
isets and purunent    workilng capital only        strengthening            and permant working    wkinlg cpital or           enterprslos
workilng capital                                                            c pltal                   fin acial
stre    nlnng
Seneficlarles                                   Private national eowpnles vIth fixed aswts                                     Prlvate natlonal                   National copaniles
Including the fied Investentt to be finanocd                                   ceal_
up to 500,000 OWI not belonging to an  conolc
group with st asnts abone   e  illlion 0IN
Agent                                           Devlomnt and Investmnt baras                                             Devlepannt  n  inveu st  n  betks       iND   (direct)
operat insl)
Financlal ch ergn It)
Region  /                          I     11     III         I     11      III         I     11     III         I     11      III         I     11     III      6.0 to 10.0 or 3S'
gIOES  r_eration                  1.0    4.5    6.0        4.5    7.0    7.5        4.5    7.0    7.5         4.0    7.5    7.5         7.0    9.S    9.S      for loan In  orelgn
Agent's Woprod                   5.0    3.9   3.0          3.5    3.0    2.5         3.9    3.0    2.5        4.0    2.5    2.9         3.0   2.5    2.5       corren                      I
Cost to benefIclary              6.0    t.0    9.0         R.O   10.0  10.0          0.0   10.0  10.0         0.0   10.0   10.0        10.0  12.0   12.0                                   U
GNM system
Partclipatlon Ilelt (I)           s0      70     60         s0     70     60         I0      70     60         50     50     50         eO      SO     50                50
CcItm nt fee (1)                            0.1                      0.1                       0.1                      0.1                       0.1                       0.1
l fatry corret lon                          WltN                     IRTN                      CRTN                up to 50 USt              up to g5us SltN or forelgn
baaneo aWIN              balance WM            curenct
Repaymnt period                        uptoiflye                up fto5yews              upto  Team               uptoi0 Tows               upflaeTwu ft20 yars
Total                              up to  3 r  rs            up to 2 ye              up to 2 yes CUp to  3 years                        up to 2 Vos            Vp to Is  ths aft1
Graw perlod                                                                                                                                                    project cqletlon
Guarantees
It of operation)                         130                      130                      130                       130                      130
I/ For Project Area III operatlons boneficiarli s an be privato natlonal companie or shrholdrs of such clospni  whvo an loan proade to Increas, capital In the enterprlse
which Is used to finance the InvestAnt project. 
2/ Region is  Amannas, Pare, Acre,  uranhwo, Plaul, Ceara, Rio Grste   do Notto, Peralba, Pornmeco. Alagos. Srgipe. Sebla, Espirito Santo. Maft Grcso. Mato Grosno do Sol,
Goles. Territories and regian of Minas GOrals Included In Pollgio des Sac.
Region IIs Rio Grands do Sul, Santa Ctarin,e Paeran, Minas bearals Rio de Janlro. Oistrito Fearal.
Reglon ll. SWo Pulo.
Soutrce  waOS
LCPI I
Dece6r  1964



-33 -                                            ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
THE BRAZILIAN DEVEIOPMENT BANKS
SEA 0~~~~~Bnar 
Banacre s l ~~~~~ - - ~~~ { \ \ r +-;}-~~~~Produbun
0  Dances R3poni      eron iandese
Dance )o Euulo do AznADesenbanxo
Danco di RoiauBem- BaORBtBNDE
Baumco Nacido do Desm  lBandes
FacogOiEcosd Socia-BNDES                                                  BDMG
0 Bcos Re&m de Deaou  eto                                                                J
Banco da Anuznin -Basa                     h                     oesp                   D-R-R o
Banco do Nordet do Barail - BNB                    A,DJ
Banco P1gina de DesenvdviKnto do Exueno Sul-8D         
Banco Rek    de Bras   co - BRB DBoddeP                                         Ar
Bucs Eisuw cor Canein de Desxmdvo e9
Banco do Estado de Rondl a - Bomn dae
Banco do Estado di Serp - 8rcze                                                                      V
Baieo do Euado do azonas - BEAna
Banw de R.rarahm- B=WrAt=
Banco do Estdo do Fm - Bearpi                    adesulBRE  
Banco do Estado do Paui - BEP                         I d   
Banco do       EEstdd da        Babi -  Parbnbanco
Dunce iDsuOifClQ odotaoEspPirbu o -   Santo                                              ABDEd
Banco do DEstadolade Atios- Ptdiiub AGraiAsA   BRASLEMR
Bamc do Esao deolwSenite d                                                DE BANCOS DE DESENVOLVIaAENTO
Banco do Estano de Mto dto Es5BeSat
Banco de Desawolimento do Estado do ahio-BDM
Banco do Demwollfimento do Ccati -SBant c noe
Banco de Dmavolvmnento do Rio Ganade do Norm -BDRN
Banco de Dcenavhnento do Estado da B*a- Deunbanco
BBnco de Deswvolitnento do E*pfrito Santo - Budes
Banco de Dexm<onnnto de Mai Gaas - BDMG
Banco de, Desaemdcnnto do Estdo do Rio de Jaer - BD4tio
-Banmco de Desemoisnento do Esttdo de SAD Pru - OBadksP
Banco de De _novimet do piar - Badev
Bw   de Dexmolcnto do Esatdo de S nta Cataia-Ba-s
B nco dcf" wolvianeto do Eudo do Rio Grnde do Sul - Badesul
Banco de Desevohimaeto do Esado dr Goas - BDGoiis
*'_WAb*1<6 U                                                                                    D    _wVwomm 33



ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
(Information on BNDES' budgets, annual reports, auditors' reports, operating
statistics, operating policies, etc. upto 1981, and subsequently in some
cases, are contained in the Project File for Loan 2225-BR, Second Development
Banking Project, Document No. 266.301).
A. The Project
BNDES Reports
A-01  Annual Internal Audit Reports - 1982, 1983
A-02  Annual Report of Operations - 1982, 1983
A-03  Budgets 1983, 1984, Estimates for 1985-1987
A-04  Annual External Auditor's Reports - 1981, 1982, 1983
A-05  Operating Statistics of AP-III - 1983, 1984
A-06  Description of Operating Programs dated August 1983
A-07  Regulations Governing Operating Programs and Rules Applicable to
Loan Contracts (Resolution 535/79)
A-08  Basic Legislation of BNDES' System (1983)
A-09   Consulta Previa- Form
A-10  Study of Financial Condition of State Development Banks (Disucssion
Notes prepared by AP-III)
A-1l Description of Program to Support Exports (PROEX)
ABDE (Association of Development Banks)
A-12 Financial Reports of State and Regional Development Bank and of
State Banks with Development Portfolios - 1982 and 1983
A-13  Report on Training Programs, 1983
ANBID (Association of Investment Banks)
A-14  Statements of Resources and Assets - 1981, 1982, 1983
B. The Sector
Central Bank
B-O1 Basic Statistics on Capital Markets Module 1, December 31, 1983 and
March 31, 1984
B-02 Basic Statistics on Capital Markets Module 2, June 30, 1983
October 1984
LCPI1



- 35 -
TABLE 1
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Brazil - Annual Growth Rates, 1951-83
(Z)
GDP
per                 Agri-
Years       GDP   Capita  Industry   culture
1951-1955   6.8      3.7      7.7       5.1
1956-60     6.9      3.7     10.1       3.8
1961-65     4.5      1.6      3.8       5.8
1966-70    7.2       4.7      9.7       0.8
1971-73    12.8    10.0    14.3         6.4
1974-78     7.0      4.4      7.7       5.1
1979        6.4      3.8      6.4       5.0
1980        7.2      4.6      7.9       6.3
1981      -3.2a/  -5.6   -10.2a/        6.4
1982        0.9    -1.5       0.6      -2.5
1983b/    -3.2     -5.5    -6.8         2.2
a/ Bank mission estimates based upon
preliminary industrial output date.
bI Preliminary estimates.
Source: Getulio Vargas Foundation, Conjuntura
Economica, various issues; and Central
Bank, Relatorio Anual, various issues.
October 1984



-36-                           TABLE 2
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
BNDES' SYSTEM NUMBER OF STAFF
DECEMBER 31
1980      1981      1982       1983      JUNE 1984
ENDES                 1,562     1,555     1,584      1,584        1,604
Executives            237       247       279        300          305
Professionals        490        459       441        427          438
Support Staff        835        849       864        857          861
BNDESPAR                327       331       402        387          378
=     _.         _            =
Executives             54        69        67         56           56
Professionals        119        102       144        153          144
Support Staff        154        160       191        178          178
FINAME                  153       153       157        149          149
Executives             16        15        16         16           16
Professionals         19         20        20         18           18
Support Staff        118        118       121        115          115
TOTAL              2,042      2,039     2,143      2,120        2,131
_--                                           =



- 37 -
BRAZIL                                         TAILE 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOWPNT ANEKIG PROJECT
StIngY OF STATISTICS OF flNES OPERATIONS  1979-1983
(CrS billions)
Current 1983 CrS                              In lid-1983 CrS
1979     1980     1981      1921l              1979     1980    1981      398S2-  ~1983
A. IUES System Operations Approvals
asic Inputs                        53.5      93.5    308.4    344.6    b2b.9   1225.1   1023.6  1584.7    895.9        626.9
Equip                               7.3      10.2     12.5      14.4     94.5    167.2    111.7    64.2       37.4      94.5
Other                               16.7     25.1     22.4      34.9    126.6    382.4    274.8   115.1       90.7     126.b
S73     128.F    343.3    393.9    848.0   1774.7   1410.1  1764.0   1026.0         848.0
S                                  57.0    (42.1)   (47.8)   (47.4)   (36.6)
Infrastructure
nergw                              12.8    111.3    Z10.4    165.3    367.0    293.1   1218.5  1081.2    429.6          367.0
Transportation                     14.8      21.0    105.8    103.1    173.8    338.9    229.9   543.7    268.0         173.8
Other                               4.9      12.0      1.0      28.2    235.6    112.2    131.4       5.1     73.3     235.6
32.5    144.3    317.2    Z96.6    776.4    744.2   1579.8  1630.0    771.1         776.4
Z                                  (23.9)   (67.2)   (46.3)   (35.7)   (33.6)
FINSOCILAL                          -         -        -        60.8    484.4
2                                   -         -        -        (7.3)   (20.9)
Other Sectors                      26.0      32.8     56.8      79.1    204.9    595.4    359.0   289.7    205.7       204.9
2                                  (19.1)   (10.7)    (7.9)    (9.6)    (8.9)                                           (8.9
TOTAL                              136.0    305.9    717.3    830.4   2313.7   3114.4   3348.9  3658.2   2159.0    2313.7
2                                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
USS billion equivalent              5.06      5.80     7.71      4.63     4.01
S. BNDES System Operat2ons by Reglon. Approvals
Shares by Region (S)
Region                             t919      1980     1981      3982     1983
Northern                             2.5      1.9     16.3      15.b      10.9
Northeast                          17.6      17.3     15.5      23.7     27.9
Southeast                          56.9      50.7     53.3      47.3     41.4
South                              20.2      27.2     13.1       8.7     17.1
Centerwest                          2.8       2.9      3.8       4.7      2.7
TOTAL                              100.0             100.0      100. 1 00.
NUDES System Operations by Subsidiaries. Approvals -Disbursements
Current CrS                                  In lid-1983 Cr5
1979     3980      1981   1-982      1983      1979     1960    3981    -1982       3983
Approvals
NMUD                                67.5    117.4    462.9    475.9   1582.4   1545.7   1279.7  z360.8   1237.3    1582.4
FIAME                               54.4    172.3    231.1    301.7    200.4   1245.8   1878.1  1178.6    784.4         200.4
8YDESPAR                            14.1      16.2     23.3      52.8    530.9    322.9    176.6   118.8    137.3       530.9
13 -6.0o    -5     73    MU.-&  2313.7          T       3134.6  3658.2   2159.0    2313.7
OISBlRSENErTS
8NDE5                               56.3     U8.4    149.7    498.1   1617.0   1289.3    963.6   763.5   1295.1    1617.0
FrJIAME                             63.6      66.9    116.8    218.2    389.2    998.4    729.2   595.7    567.3        389.2
6NDESPAR                            12.0      20.2     26.1      63.9    230.7    274.8    220.2   133.1    166.1       230.7
1 11.9    1756.5    3z5    7I0Y          9   !SISI   1913.0    92.    1            2236.9
SHARE OF APPROED OPERATIONS
TO PUBI.C AMO PRIVATE
ENTERPRISES (2)
Private                             46.9      32.0     23.2     29.1      36.2                                           36.2
Public mad Hixed                    53.1      68.0     76.8      70.9     63.8                                           63.8
APPROVALS ACCORDINC TO
TYPES OF OPERATIONS
Direct Loans                        48.8      81.3    417.4    Z10.3    721.1   1117.5    886.2  2128.7    546.8        721.1
Loas to Shareholders                 -         3.7      7.2      52.9      5.9       -       40.3    36.7    137.5        5.9
Share Participations                 8.1      13.1     15.3    182.7    338.6    185.5    142.8    78.0    475.0         338.6
Underwriting                         1.0       3.9      3.9       4.3     42.0      22.9     42.5    19.9      11.2      42.0
Other                                0.4       -        1.0      46.5    462.3       9.2      -        5.1    120.9     462.3
Total Direct Operations             53.3    1-2.0    444.8 ".     l T   1569.9  T135.    1111.B  2268.4   1291.4    1569.9
Indirect Loans                      77.7    184.8    265.0    328.0    741.6   1779.3   2014.3  1351.5    852.8         741.6
Loam to Shareholders                 -        17.8      7.0       5.7      2.2       -      194.0    35.7      14.8       2.2
Capitalization of Companie           -         1.3      0.5       -        -         -       14.2     2.5       -         -
Total Indirect Operations             77     203.9    Z72.5    333.7    7.8        773    2225  1389.7    867.6          743.8
GRAND TOTAL                          136.0    305.9    717.3    830.4   2313.7   3114.4   3334.3  3658.2   2159.0    2313.7
Jll1 198'



-38-                               TABLE 4
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
BNDES OPERATING STATISTICS
In Billions of US$
1979   Z   1980   Z  1981   %   1982   Z   1983   Z
Industry                          2.88  57   2.44  42  3.69  48   2.20  48   1.47  37
Energy                            0.48   9   2.11  36  2.26  29   0.92  20   0.64  16
Transportat ,n                    0.55  11   0.40   7  1.14  15   0.57  12   0.30   7
Other Infrastructure              0.18   4   0.23   4  0.01   -   0.16   4   0.41  10
Other Sectors                     0.97  19   0.62  11  0.61   8   0.44   9   0.35   9
(mainly agriculture)
Social Projects (FINSOCIAL)       -        -         -  -      -   0.34   7   0.84  21
Total                           5.06 100   5.80 100  7.71 100   4.63 100   4.01 100
- -         =e -- --   =-                          -



- 39 -
TABLE S
UWAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKINC PROJECT
BNDES SYSTEM SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(Figures in CrS Billious)
CURRENT CrS                                IN MID-1983 Cr$
1980     1981     1982      1983     l9e4         1980     1981     1982      1983     1984()
(Budet)                                            (Budget)
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Generation
Repuyent oan Loans                        8Z.0    164.5    370.9   1047.8   3015.7         897.7    845.3    982.4   1047.8       993.8
Government Payments on
Subsidixed Loans                        12.4      10.8     19.7     55.3    267.2        135.7     55.5      52.2     55.3      88.0
Sale of Securities                         9.6       2.3     12.0      7.2      90.0       103.1     11.8      31.8      7.2      29.7
Other                                     10.2      19.6     90.6    232.5    453.5        111.7    100.7    240.0    232.5       149.4
114.2    197.2    493.2   1342.8   3826.4       1250.2   1013.3   1306.4   1342.'    1260.9
Transfers
PIS/PASEP                                 59.6    117.6    194.7    510.4    985.3         652.5    604.3    515.7    510.4      324.7
FINSOCIAL                                  -        -       132.6    338.4   1595.9          -      3 - 2    351.2    338.4      525.9
Merchant Marine Fund (FMM)                 -         -        -        -       758.8         -        -         -        -        250.0
59.6    117.6    327.3    84.8B  3340.0          652.5    60.3               VWri8- 8. 1800.6
Loans and Grants tram
Federal Government
Federal Government Grant                   -         -       90.0    236.0      77.0         -        -       211.9    236.0      25.4
C-ntral Bank Loan                         12.8      21.2      0.3      -         -         140.2    109.0       0.8      -         -
Bill Loan                                  3.3      0.7       0.8      1.7       -          36.1      3.6       2.1      1.7       -
16.1     21.9     81.1    237.7      77.0       176.3    112.6    214.8    97          -2 25.4
Earmarked Funds
Proalcool                                  4.4      18.5     26.9     40.4      51.0        48.2     95.1      71.3     40.4      16.8
Conserve                                   -         1.8      9.5     16.0      20.0         -        9.2      25.2     16.0       6.6
Procarvac                                  -        0.2       0.5      0.3       0.2         -        1.0       1.3      0.3       0.1
Other                                      5.1       -        6.0      -         -          55.8      -        15.9      -         -
9.5     20.5     42.9      567      71.2       104.0    105.3   iia*7        W.:7     iW:5
External Loans                              31.6      37.1     71.5    222.2    919.0        345.9    190.7    183.4    222.2      302.8
TOTAL SOURCES                              231.0    394.3   1016.0   2708.2   8233.6        2528.9   2026.2   2691.2   2708.2    2713.2
APPLICATIONS
Disbursements on loans
end Investments                           175.5    292.6    780.2   2237.0   6490.1        1921.3   1503.6   2066.6   2237.0    2138.7
Debt Service
Local                                     17.1      24.5     31.9     69.1    116.1        187.2    125.9      84.5     69.1      38.2
Foreign                                   30.4      61.6    127.0    321.7   1147.3        332.8    316.5    336.4    321.7      378.1
47.-5-    86.1   T158.9   T9i -0   126-3.4       5ZO.    442.-5   W2-0-.    NEW.    416.3
Administrative Expenses                      4.7       9.6     21.5     56.3    158.4         51.5      49.3     57.0     56.3       52.2
Other                                        3.7       1.6      1.9     19.7       6.9        40.5      8.2       5.0     19.7        2.3
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                         231.4    389.9    962.5   2703.8   7918.8        2533.3   2003.6   2549.5   2703.8    2609.5
Net change in caab                          (0.4)      4.4     53.5      4.4    314.5
Cash at beginning of period                  1.3       0.9      5.3     58.8      63.2
C-ah at end of period                        0.9       5.3     58.8     63.2    377.7
JUNE 1984



-40 -                            TABLE 6
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS FOR 1980-1983 AND BUDGET 1984
(In US$ Billions)
In Billions of US$
1980   X   1981   X   1982   Z   1983   X   1984*  %
Budget
Sources
Internal Generation              2.17  49   2.13  50   2.70  48   2.33  50   2.21  47
PIS/PASEP Transfers              1.13  26   1.26  30   1.08  19   0.89  19   0.57  12
FINSOCIAL Transfers              -      -   -       -   0.74  13   0.59  12   0.92  19
Loans Federal Government         0.31   7   0.23   5   0.01   1   -        -   -       -
Grants Federal Government       -       -   -       -   0.44   8   0.41   9   0.05   1
Earmarked Funds                  0.18   4   0.22   5   0.24   4   0.10   2   0.04   1
ExLcrnal Loans                   0.60  14   0.40  10   0.40   7  0.38   8   0.53  11
Merchant Marine Fund             -      -   -       -   -                  -   0.44   9
Total                            4.39 100   4.24 100   5.61 100   4.70 100   4.76 100
Uses
Disbursements on Loans and
Investments                   3.33  76   3.14  75   4.35  81   3.88  83   3.75  82
Debt Service
Local                         0.32   8   0.28   6   0.18   3   0.12   2   0.08   2
Foreign                       0.58  13   0.66  16   0.71  13   0.56  12   0.66  14
0.90  21   0           0.89 16   0.68  14   0.74  16
Administrative Expenses          0.09   2   0.10   2   0.12   2   0.10   2   0.09   2
Other                            0.07   1   0.02   1   0.01   1   0.03   1   -         -
Total                            4.39 100   4.20 100   5.37 100   4.69 100   4.58 100
Net Change in Cash              -           0.04        0.24        0.01       0.18
* Projected mid-year exchange rate (mid-year budgetary recision BNDES/SEPLAN US$1    1,730
Cr$.



- 41 -
BRAZIL                           TABLE 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
FORECAST
Sources and Uses of Funds for 1985 through 1987
(in US$ billions)
Forecast
Sources                                      1985       1986        1987
Internal generation                          2.20       2.28        2.29
PIS/PASEP                                    0.45       0.48        0.50
FINSOCIAL transfers                          0.85       0.93        1.00
Grants federal government                    0.13       0.11        0.11
Earmarked funds                              0.04       0.04        0.04
External loans                               0.57       0.65        0.57
Merchant marine fund                         0.48       0.53        0.58
To be defined                                0.26       0.47        0.68
Total                                        4.98       5.49        5.77
Uses
Disbursements on Loans & Investments
- AP-I (Direct industrial loans)             0.84       0.95        0.93
- AP-II (Infrastructure loans)               0.49       0.72        1.00
- AP-III (SSE)                               0.20       0.21        0.22
- AP-IV (FINSOCIAL &
Merchant Marine)                        1.26       1.40        1.56
- AP-V (BNDESPAR)                            0.14       0.17        0.18
- FINAME                                     1.00       0.83        0.73
3.93       4.28       4.62
Debt service
- Local                                      0.08       0.10        0.10
- Foreign                                    0.87       1.00        0.93
C3Ey    1.10        1.03
Administrative &
other expenses                             0.10       0.U1       0.12
Total                                   4.98       5.49       5.77
=            -=
October 1984
LCPI1



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL RIEPORT
THIRD DEVELPKINT lAING PROJECr
BND3 S 8ALANCES SHEETS
(Including P1S/PASEP Fundsl
(rigures in CrS 6i I Iions I
Current CrS                                                    In December 31, 1983  CrS
Dec.        Dec.         Dec.         Dec.         Dec..
1979        1980         198L         1982         Dec;            1979          1950         1981           1982          1983
ASSECTS
Clrculating/Long Term Assets
Cash and Banks                                                   0.3        0.2           0.7          1.4           3.1              8.5          2.6           4.6           4.7           3.1
Marketable SecuritLes                                            0.5        -             4.3        219.6         438.4             14.2          -            28.4         733.5         438.4
Loane outstanding                                              420.6      725.3       1.547.4      3.496.8      10.230.8         11.946.7      9.307.0    10.220.0        11.690.8      10.230.a
Legs Provlsion for losses                                       (0.1)      (2.2)          3.6         (7.9)        I30.0             (2.8)       (28.2)        (33.8)        (26.4)        (30.0)
421.3      723.3      i.548.8       3.709.9      10.642.)        11.966.6       9.281.4     10.229.2       12.)92.6      10.642.3
Amounts due from Federal Government                                26.4       56.7         189.8        328.6       1.042.7            749.9        727.6       1.253.6       1.097.7       1.042.7
Government and other Securities                                     6.7        1.7          -            57.3           58.6           190.3         21.8         -             191.4          58.6
Other                                                               7.3        9.2           S.6         53.3          320.4           207.3        118.0          56.8         178.0         320.4
461.7      790.9      1.747.2       4.149.1      12.064.0         13.114.1     10.148.8    11.539.6        13.859.7      12.064.0
Permanent Assets
Investmnt In Controlled, Affiliated and other companies         73.4      121.2        307.9         872.7       2.986.9          2.084.8      l.555.2      2.033.5        2.915.2       2.986.9
rFied Assets (not)                                               3.4        6.9          13.4         26.4          65.5             96.6         88.5          88.5          88.2          65.5
Deferred Charges                                                21.6       26.0          38.2         50.2         -                613.5        333.6         252.3         167.7         -
Total Assets                                                   560.1      945.0      2.106.7       5.098.4      15.116.4         15.909.0     12.126.1     13.913.9       17.030.0      15.116.4
LIABILITISS AND CAPITAL
Deposits                                                            2.9        4.5         10.0          30.7          33.9             82.4         57.7          66 0         102.6          33.9
Long-Torm Debt
Domestic                                                       78.8      102.5        164.9         328.2         766.0          2.238.2      1.315.3      1.089.1        1.096.3         766.0
rorelqn                                                        94.0      160.6        329.0         665.9       2.752.0          2.670.0      2.060.8      2.172.9        2.224.4       2.752.0
172.8      263.1        493.9         994.1       3.518.0         4.908.2       3.376.1      3.262.0        3.320.7       3.518.O
Resources adainistered for the Government
PIS-PASEP Funds                                                257.6      483.1      1.154.9       2.676.9       8.141.7          7.316.a      6.199.1      7.627.6        8.942.0       8.141.7
FINSOCIAL Funds                                                 -          -             -           132.8         165.4            -            -              -            443.6          165.4
other                                                            0.3        0.3          23.1         17.8          65.3              8.5          3.8         152.6          59.4          65.3
257.9      483.4      1,178.0       2.127.5       8.372.4         7.325.3       6.202.9      7.780.2        9.445.0       8.372.4
Other Obllgations                                                   9.6       IS.I          25.9         46.7           25.1           272.7        193.5         171.1         156.0           25.1
Social CeoLtal
Capital                                                         60.0       90.0         202.6        670.0-      1.328.6          1.704.2      1.154.9       1.338.1       2.238.1       1.328.6.
Resrveas                                                        56.9       88.9        196.3         529.4       1.838.4          1.616.2      1.140.7      1.296.5        1.768.4       1.338.4
116.9      178.9        398.9       1.199.4       3.167.0         3.320.4       2.295.6      2.634..6       4.006.5       3.167.0
Total LiabilLtile  end Capital                                    560.1      945.0       2.306.7      5.098.4      15.116.4         15.909.0     12.126.1      13.913.9      17.030.8       l5.116.4



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL RPORT
THIRD DEVELOFMMi BANKINO PROJECT
31015 flALAE SMElTS
tistLuding PIS-PAStP Funds)
(Figures in CrS Bhilionsl
Current CrS                                                                 In December 31; 1983 CrS
Dec.        Ofc.         Dec.         Dec.          Dec.                      1979           1980         1981        1982          1982
1979        1920 1981                 196i          1983
ASSETS
CirgulatAna/Lono-Tera Aosets
cash and Bans                                  0.3          0.2         0.7            1.4           3.1                       8.5            2.6          4.6          4.7         3.1
Government Securities                          0.5          -           _             57.3          S8.6                      14.2            -            -          19L.4        58.6
Loans and Financings (Net)                   160.3        272.5       460.1        1.055.9       3.041.6                   5.121.2        3.496.7      3,038.8      3.527,1     3.041.6
Due from Federal GoVernment                   15.4         28.7       100.2          171.9         446.4                     437.4          368.3        661.6        574.2       446.4
Other                                          7.3          2.1         8.3          192.9         372.6                     207.4           26.9         54.8        644.4       372.6
203.8       303.5        569.3       1.479.4        3.922.3                   5.798.7       3.894.5       3.760.0     4.941.8      3.922.3
Permnent AeeetQ
Investments in Controlled, Aftiliated end
other Coempanies                            73.4        121.2       307.9          872.7       2.9N6.9                   2.064.8        1.555.2      2.033.6      2.91S.2     2.966.9
Fixed Assets (Net)                             3.4          6.8        13.4           26.4          65.                       ff.6           87.2         U.5          88.a        65.5
76.8       128.0        321.3         899.1        3.052.4                   2.151.4       1.642.4       2.122.1     3.003.4      3.052.4    a
DWeerred xpenses                              21.6         26.3        38.1           41.n         _                         613.5          337.5        251.6        143.6       -
Total  sets                                  302.2        457.8       928.7        2,421.5       6,974.7                   8,583.6        5,E74.4      6.133.7      8.088.8     L.9_7 7
LIABILITISU AM  CAPITAL
Deposits                                         2.9          4.5        10.0           30.7          33.9                      62.4           57.7         66.0        102.5        33.9
Long-Tar. Debt
Dometic                                       78.8        102.5       164.9          328.2         766.0                   2.238.2        1.315.3      1.0E9.1      1.096.3       766.0
rotorsn                                       94.0        160.6       329.0          665.9       2.752.0                   2.670.0        2.060.       2.172.9     2.224.4     2.752.0
112.6       263.1        493.9         994.1        3.516.0                   4.908.2       3.376.1       3.262.0     3.320.7      3.518.0
FINSOCIAL Fsds                                   -            -          .             132.8         165.4                     -              -             -           443.6       165.4
Other Obligatlons                                9.6         11.3        25.9           64.5          90.4                     272.6          145.0        171.1        215.5        90.4
Social Capital                                 11G.9        l79.9       398.9        1.19.4        3.167.0                   3.320.4        2.295.6      2.634.6      4.0065S     3.167.0
Total Liabilities and Capital                  302.         457.6       928.7  *    2.421.         6,974.7                   *.583,6        S,874.4      6.133.7      8.0U.8      6.974.7
_                        _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL SEP01?
ThiR3DoEVEw0PHEfs 3U11G PROJECT
ONDES INCOME STATDEHWIS
(Figures in Cr5 Billions)
Current Cr5                                         In Mid-1983 CrS
1979      1980    1981       1982       1983           1979       1960        1951       1982        1,33
OPERATING REVENUES
Loan rinencinLe/rLnencial Acolications
Inatereat and Commissions                                                 12.0       15.7     34.2      36.9       Z53.3          274.9       171.9       175.7      230.2       255.3
Monetary correction                                                       57.0       92.2    250.2    438.2    1.399,0           1.305.6    1.009.4    1,U23.7    1.160.7    1.399.0
Exchange rate adjustments                                                   -                  13.3     76.7    1.023,            -            _          68.3       203.a    1.028.4
69.0    107.9      297.7    601.8    2,U62.7          1.580.4    1,181.3    1.529.7    1,594.1    2,682.7
Inveatagnts
Partcicpatione/Dividends                                                   0.1        4,0       6,2      1.0        71.4            2.3        43.5        42.1        2.6        71.8
Monetary correction                                                       25.4       51.2    157.9    418.3    1.525,2            581.B       560.5       811.4    1.109.0    1.525.2
Total Revenues                                                            94.5      163.1    463.6  1,021.1    4,279.7          2.164.5     17683.6    2,383.2    2,704.7    4,279.7
OPERATINO EXPENSES
Interest and Cmmissions                                                   11.3       23.4     53.4    103.1        271.6          258.8       256.2      274.4       273.1      271.6
Monecary correction                                                       15.1       28.7      66.3    123.4       363.7          345.9       314.2       340.7      326.S       363.7
Exchange rate edjuatenta                                                  21.2       51.3    146.4    316.7    L.902.2            4UJas       SG1.6       762.6      639.9    1.902.2
47.6     103.4    268.1    543.2    2.537.5           1.090.3    1.132.0    1.377.7    1.438.I    2.537.5
Amortization of deferred toreign exchange lossee                           -          5.5       9.5     16.3        -              -           60.2       46.6        46.5        -
Provision for loan end investmnt losses                                    0.1        3.9       1.6      4.6        25.3            2.3        42.7        8.2        12.2        25.3
Monetary correction on social capital                                     36.8       59.9    174.4    484.1    1.887.3            842.9       655.8      696.2    1.282.3    1.687.3
Administrative expenses                                                    2.0        3.7       6.3     17.7        54.4           45.6        40.5       42.6        46.9        54.4
Other expenses                                                             4.3        0.2       0.5      2.4       269.8           98.5         2.2         2.6        6.3       269.8
Total Expenses                                                            90.8      176.6    462.4   1070j3g     4,774.3         2.079,6    1.933.4    2.376.1    2.R35.0    4.774.J
Net Operating income Gloss)                                                3.7      (13.5)      1.4    (49.2)    (494.6)           84.7      (147.8)       7.1      (130.3)    (494.6)
Non-Operating incmes                                                                 iLl       4.2      67A.       277.0           -          1IhQ.9       21.0      178.0       277.0
3.7       1.2       5.6     18.0      (217.6)          64.7                   IFT         47.7      217.6a
Income Taxes                                                               3.1        -        -        12.4        -              71.0        -          -           32.9       -
Nit Income (lose?                                                          0.6        1.2       5.6      5.6      t217.6)          11.7        13.1        78.1       14.8      (217.6)



- 45 -
TABLE 11
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
BNDES AP-III Operating Statistics 1979-1983
1979     1980      1981      1982  , 1983
Number of Operations - Approvals                               2,548    1,766        515       550    1,558
Operations Approvals (Cr$ Millions)
Joint Operations Program (POC)                               5,162    5,063    6,438   15,411  116,732
Projects                                                     928       878      181         -         -
FINAC (Financing Shareholders)                            12,150   17,963    7,110    5.242    2,235
TOTAL                                                       18,24    23,904   13,729   20,653  118,967
Financial Strengthening of Agents                            1,845       550    2,591       842    6,187
Other                                                        1,092         -       498    1,232   23,415
TOTAL                                                       21,177   24,454   16,818   22.727  148,569
Distribution of POC Approvals by Institution (Z)
State and Regional Development Banks                            76        82        82        88       78
Investment Banks                                                24        18        18       12        22
TOTAL                                                          100       100       100       100      100
Distribution of POC Approvals by Regions (2)
Region I                                                        44        44        44       41        27
Region II                                                       39        41        41       49        58
Region III                                                      17        15        15        10       15
TOTAL                                                          100       100       100       100      100
Approvals in USS Millions Equivalents
POC                                                            677       454       147      115       206
Others                                                         109        10        34        12       52
TOTAL                                                          786       464       181      127       258
DisbursemenL in US$ Million Equivalent
POC                                                            bOB       358      206       133       199
Others                                                          47        26        14        17       45
TOTAL                                                          655       384       220       150      244
Distribution of POC Approvals by Sector (2)
Industry                                                        67        78       85        90        93
Commerce                                                        15         9         6         9        6
Services                                                        18        13         9         1        1
TOTAL                                                          100       100       100       100       0O0
Disbribution of POC Approvals by Object of Financing (Z)
Fixed Assets and Permanent Working Capital                      53        60        86        61       38
Permanent Working Capital Only                                  31        22         7       28        53
Financial STrengthening                                        U6        _0          7        11        9
Total                                                          100       100       100       100      100
Source:  BNDES
June 1984



- 46 -                                TABLE 12
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
AP-I Operations - 1979 to 1983
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Approvals - US$ billion                   0.92    0.84    2.49    0.91    0.57
- share of BNDES system (z) a/            18       14      32       20      14
- share of BNDES (X)                      37       38      50       34      21
Approvals by Department - US$ billion
- Metallurgy and Mining                  0.57    0.68    2.27    0.64    0.41
- Chemical Industries                    0.33    0.11    0.15    0.18    0.04
- Traditional & Capital Goods            0.02    0.05    0.07    0.09    0.12
Disbursements - USS billion               1.07    0.83    0.87    1.26    1.01
- share of BNDES system (%) a/            26       25      28       29      26
- share of BNDES (M)                      51       49      54      45       36
Disbursements by Department - US$ bil.
- Metallurgy and Mining                  0.64    0.59    0.51    0.94    0.73
- Chemical Industries                    0.36    0.18    0.21    0.19    0.12
- Traditional & Capital Goods            0.07    0.06    0.15    0.13    0.16
a/ BNDES's system includes subsidiaries.



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
State Development Baiks
Selected Financial Data
(amillions of CrS)
BRDE      8ADESUL  BADESC    DADEP    BADBSP    BD-RIO    BANDES    TDWO    DD-GOI AS   DES!NBANCO  8DRN    BANDECE                  39BM
Income Statements - 1983
Financial Revenues                   556,825   97,337   85,475   155,256   300,036   267.670   25,203   364,064    81,059                 214,493   9,426    26,251    18,539
Financial Expenses                   494 013   88 Cu2   77 723   119,260   262 007   257 831   14 189   298 328    48 315                 162 256   7 645    18 429    13 354
Flnancial Margin                6        2,812 9-it    7,752 35,996                              9,839 65,736 5227                         W           7, 2 5  18 5
Administrative and Other
Expenses                            25,610    3,846    3,922    21,133    15 990    25,159    4,580    20,595    59 897                  21 794      862      4,311      3 943
Operating Profit                      37,202    5,429    3,830    14,863    22,039   (15,320)   5,634    45,141    (27 153)                30 T443      919-    3,511       1,242
Non-operating Revenues &
Expenses                               608        30        (27)     1,759        727                   30         303          1           124         -         (4)      *jU
37,4 I       39I          3,803  16,622     22,766    (15,3 56)   5,864    45,444   (27,152)          30,567       919      3,507      1,235
Monetary Correction                   34 917       5146    2,983    23 182    33 105         3 305    4 527    38 307         5,039        21,147       917      3,499      3,166
2193       31         820    (6560)  (10,33   (T8TT              1,33      7,137   (32,191)          9,420    *3             8    (1,931)
Provision for Income Taxes                -         208       651           -       -           157       665         -           -         4,572         -          -
Net Profit (Loss)                      2,893        105       169    (6,560)  (10,339)  (18,818)          672      7,137   (32,191)         4,848         3          8    (1.931)
Profit or Loss/Capital 1983                   3.9       1,0       2,4      (15.2)    (17.3)    (48.5)         8,6        9.1       a/             11,2      0.2        0.1      (36.7)
(Z)                    1982                10,5       1,9      24.7        0,7        0,3        10,0       6,5        7.9        2,5            4.7   (31.1)       (8.7)       5.6
1981                9.6       7.5       0,3       (0.3)        1.1       14.0      13.8        5.9      (24.8)          45.9)  (20.0)    (13.2)    (14.9)
Overdue Account,/
Capital (Z)             1983               75.4      78.8     105.9       55.2       167.6      251.4      57.9       46.1       84,9           11.9   184.0        39.9       NA
1982               36.6      53.6      48.7       25.5       NA         104.9      64.3       28.7       13.1            6.9   143.1        35.0       NA
1981                4.7      24,4      48,7       24.2        56.7       36.4      55.0       33,9       22.8           19.7    73.1        14.2       40.9
Debt/Capital(Tiues)       1983               11        13        21           7          9         21         8          7          s/             7        8           8          7
1982               11        14        I8          5          7          14        10          8         Ti              6       11          8          4
1981                9        t0        12          4           5         11         6          8         10              4        8          5          4
Bad Debts/Financial
Nargin(X)               1983               17.9      10.2      14.3       38.4       24.3       111.7      14.8       13.7      175.8            9.5      4.2       21.8       42.3
1982                8.3      18.0      14.1       11.1       21.2        32.3      10.0        9.3        7.1            8.6      6.3       27.9        4.3
1981                7,3       1.2       1.2       16.5       28.7         6.0      13.1        6.3        9.7           11.9      6.7       22,0         1.2
NA a Not available.
r! Capital and free reserves negative.
LCPII
June 27, 1984



-48-                                TABLE 14
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POC Actual Commitments and Dishursements for I9R4
and Estimates for 19R4 and 19R5
(USS Millions)
ACTUAL               ESTIMATE FOR            ESTIMATE FOR
1983                    1984                    1985
BNDES   IRRP   TOTAL   P%Eh.5  IiI.P IOTAL   3nT%1  -       - -TA'
Commitments
Fixed Assets        27.5   41.5    69.0    34.1   59.1    93.2    37.0   65.0  102.0
and P.W.C.
Working Capital     50.6   47.3    97.9    51.9   51.6   103.5    57.0   57.0  114.0
Financial
Restructuring      12.9    3.7    16.6    12.2    7.9    20.1    13.0    9.0    22.0
Total POC           91.0   92.5   183.5    98.2  118.6   216.8   107.0  131.0   238.0
Disbursements
Fixed Assets
and P.W.C.         23.2   35.2    58.4    27.7   48.0    75.7    30.0   54.0    84.0
Working Capital     46.0   43.1    89.1    51.3   51.2   102.5    56.0   56.0   112.0
Financial
Restructuring      12.3    3.4    15.7    12.2    7.8    20.0    14.0    8.0    22.0
Total POC           81.5   81.7   163.2    91.2  107.0   198.2   100.0  118.0   218.0



49 _                       TABLE 15
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD FY and                         Disbursement (US$ million)
Quarter Ended                    By Quarter                 Cumulative
FY85
June 30                           45.0                        45.0
FY86
September 30                      21.0
December 31                       22.0
March 31                          23.0
June 30                           24.0                       135.0
FY87
September 30                      26.0
December 31                       32.0
March 31                          35.0
June 30                           32.0                       260.0
FY88
September 30                      10.0
December 31                        7.0
March 31                           6.0
June 30                            5.0                       288.0
FY89
September 30                       5.0
December 31                        3.0
March 31                           2.0
June 30                            2.0                       300.0
December 1984
LCPI1



Boo                 " PNA                        -            RAYi
~~   ~~~  N.....~~~~~~,   ~~~     C    S   S   0    ~~~~~~~~   GO~~
. o-.                                                          t9
A 0/.c  ~ 
-.                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~BRASiLiAL'f-
~~             , ~~~~    MArCf~- G~SO- -                          M IN AS5
P A  CI F I C      ""  ~~   (         -~  s-p.            ~ampoGr6nde 
DO SAO PULO
~y;- 1>-.~. .          PARAGUA~\                      -.
'0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~t~                                              Sa Pul
~~  Ar/ANtI                               -.c~~~~~~ '-   A'tiN
OCEAN ~~~~~~~~~E --NT 4'
B R A,IunuIlu.maIL      1   - I                    ---V        * Li'
~~~ URARU                O  U



I BRD-15685 R
GtWJiAN                                                      .,.  ..   - .       AUGUST 1933
,of   /   S   t               9                      Ah~~~~~~eresin&;CEARA/OG RA   EDON ORTE
vi 4                                                ERNAMBUCO * safe
Al: 7  A                      .2>  C.E AL G
u   {  %  >   /   |       j        . - - - ~~~~~~~~~ >it           <~~-'  rcaju              '*
I~~~~~~~~~~~~Iln
- nto                                                          Luisbcs   <  BRASiLIA; {j  -|
0tf , @.. 't'-g ;' '-  ',_' Goionic a       
0-'';e;. ~; Campo Gronde  .            *-         /ESPin ITO SANTO
i X t X        4                      <   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Hononntre,-Nr 
*t               _             -                   &IWO1
. . W*           -g1, -2R.: ^,  
PA AC A            Poto~                             .l geFo . .O   StoteE  cO      pOC AN
Sao Paulo ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ A   i                   Pssc
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
BlRAiLn~IXsB                              A I
-~~~~*                   P orn5   ,X~=% - KILOMETERS 0  10 200 30 40 0 500 -- S_ b_are
E   1 , ij5O                     i: ;y -                '0.:. 3ER






