Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,k,V   yzor -s
Report ~P-3921-BR
REPORT AID RECOMMENDATION
IF THE
*  -                                     PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
I1 AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
.
January 10, .985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its cotents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQuIVALENTS
Calendar 1984                                               January 3, 1985
Currency Unit - Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 - Cr$1,952                             US$1 - Cr$3.041
Cr$S - US$0.000512                          CrSl -  US$0.000328
GOVERNDENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
Jan;... 1 - December 31
Unless otherwise ipdicated, dollar equivalent figures in this report
are based on the dollar-cruzefro exchange rate as of Deceimber 31,
1983 (US$1.00 - Cr$984.00), the date of the base cost estimates.
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ABDE      Associagao Brasileira de Bancos de Desenvolvimento
(Brazilian Association of Development Banks)
BACEN     Banco Central do Brasil
(Central Bank of Brazil,
BB        Banco do Brasil
(Bank of B-zil)
BEFIEX    Comissao para Concessao de Beneficios Fiscais a Programas
Fspecials de Exportacao (Special Program of Fiscal
Incentives for Exporters)
3NDES     Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(National Economic ana Social Development Bank)
BNDESPAR  BNDES Participagoes, S. A. (BNDES Equity Participations)
BNH       Bance Nacional de Habitagao
(*National Housing Bank)
CACEX     Carteira de Comercio Exterior (Foreign Trade Department,
Bank of Brazil)
FINAME    Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial (Special
Agency for Industrial Financing)
OEi.    Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Obligations of the National Treasury)
POC       Program of Joint Operations with Agents
SDBs      State and Regional Development Banks
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency)
SMEs      Small and Medium Euterprises



FOR OFFMAL US ONLY
BRAZIL
THRD DEVELOPHET BANKIG PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agency:    National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES)
Beneficiaries:        - National Economic and Social Development Bank
- State and Regional Development Banks and Other
Financial Intermediaries
- Export-oriented and small- and medium-size
Brazilian enterprises.
Amount:               US$300.0 million equivalent including capitalized
front-end fee of about US$0.75 million.
Terms:                Repayable over 15 years on a fixed amortization
schedule, including 3 years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:      The Borrower would make available the proposed loan
to BNDES, the executing agency, on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan. BNDES would take the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan and would pass
this risk on to its largest customers. The loan
proceeds would finance a program of direct loans to
larger enterprises, and a program through state and
regional development banks (SDBs), investment banks
and state commercial banks, to finance principally
smaller scale enterprises, at real interest rates
from 6X to 12Z p.a. depending upon the region, type
of project, and size of enterprise financed. The
principal of the subloans would be adjusted for
inflation in accordance with changes in the
This document has a rtrted distibuton and may be used by eipents only in the performance
of their offici duie.lits contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



-          (ii)
ORTNI/index. The-maturities of subloans would be up
to 15 years (average loan term of 10 years),
including up to 18 months of grace after project
completion for direct operations and up to 10 years
including 3 years of grace for operations through
financial intermediaries.
Project Description:  The proposed loan would provide funds for: (a) larger
privately controlled, industrial enterprises to
support a program to export or expand or reorient
production for export, and (b) small and medium
enterprises -when resources from the Second
Development Banking Project (Loan 2225-BR) are fully
committed. It would help to establish in BNDES
procedures and the capability for doing economic
analysis of projects and continue the process started
in Loan 2225-BR of extending the capability and
procedures in the SDBs for doing economic evaluations
for the larger projects they finance.
Risks:                 The major risk associated with the project arises
from the fact that internal institutional opposition
could undermine or delay the application by BNDES of
appropriate economic criteria in project selection
and evaluation. Gradual introduction of the new
evaluation procedures coupled with appropriate staff
training and process monitoring are designed to help
mitigate this risk. Bank staff would be available to
assist BNDES in the implementation of the nei project
evaluation procedures. There is also a risk chat the
Government lay fail to adjust the outstanding balance
of the subloans to fully reflect domestic inflation.
Covenants on the indexation of financial assets
included in several Bank loans would help reduce this
risk. It has been further agreed that if the
adjustment of the principal of BNDES' loans, together
with the interest rates applicable to such loans
shall, in the Bank's opinion, fail to be positive in
relation to the prevailing inflation rate in Brazil,
commitments and disbursements could be suspended.
1/ ORTN - Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional (Obligations of
the National Treasury).



(iii)
Estimated Cost and                                                     Total
Financing Plan:                                          Benefi-      Project
Bank    BIDES     ciaries       Cost
(US$ million)
A. Operations Through Financial
Agents                                         -
Fixed assets and related
working capital                98.2     49.1        98.2      245.5
Working capital only            100.0    100.0       133.3       333.3
Sub-Total         198.2    149.1      231.5       578.8
B.  Direct Loans to Iarger Private
Sector Companies
Fixed assets and related
working capital                42.7     21.0        63.7      127.4
Working capital only             57.3      57.3      114.6       229.2
Sub-Total         100.0     78.3      178.3       356.6
C.  Technical Assistance                 1.0      -          -           1.0
D.  Front-end fee                       0.8       -          -           0.8
TOTAL             300.0   2727.4      409.8       937.2
Estimated Disbursements:
1985        1986        1987       1988       1989
(US$ million by Bank FY)
Annual               45.0/2       90.0       125.0       28.0        12.0
Cumulative          45.0         135.0       260.0      288.0      300.0
Rate of Return:        n.a.
/2 Including initial deposit in Special Account and front-end fee.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCrION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$300.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations o. a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$300.0
million to help finance the Third Development Banking project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. The proceeds of the loan would be made
available by the Government on the same terms as the Bank loan to the
National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES), which would in
turn relend the funds either directly to larger enterprises or through
state and regional development banks mainly to small and medium
enterprises. BNDES will assume the foreign exchange risk and would pass
this risk on to its largest customers. The principal of the subloans would
be adjusted for inflation according to the ORTN index. The interest to the
final beneficiaries will range from 6Z to 12Z per annum depending upon the
region, type of project and size of eaterprise. The maturities of subloans
would vary from 3 to 15 years including up to 3 years of grace, depending
upon the type of project financed.
PART I - THE ECONO1Y
2.        An economic report entitled -Economic .Iemorandum on Brazil
(Report No. 4674-BR, dated August 22, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 22, 1983. The following paragraphs summarize
and complement the findings of that report. A subsequent economic mission
visited Brazil in May-June 1984, and its report will be distributed
shortly.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Figueiredo,
completes its six-year term in March 1985. Its main economic priorities
have included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of manufactured
exports and reduced dependence on imported oil, and at the same time an
improvement in the situation and prospects of the most economically
disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the Northeast. The prime
political concern has been the return to a fully democratic system of
government. Much of the Government's attention, since 1980, has had to be
diverted from longer-term political and economic change because of
the stabilization problems confronting Brazil. In spite of the economic



-2
recession and consequent social pressures, however, substantial progress
has been made towards the struct-iral changes needed for Brazil's next stage
of development.
4.        Presidential elections are scheduled for January 15, 1985, and
the new Government will take office in March. In pre-election statements
the two candidates have emphasized the need to restore economic growth,
raise real incomes and improve income distribution. They have also
recognized that growth cannot be sustained without a decline in inflation
and equilibrium in the external accounts. The prospects are for a
relatively smooth transition, and for a new Government also well equipped
to tackle the problems still facing Brazil.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprise; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billinn. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and interest rates increased, the
current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion, or 5.0%
of GDP. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of 1.9% in GDP in 1981, ending the long period of
sustained growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination
of external developments, including declining world commodity prices,
economic problems among some major trading partners, and regional events
leading to the debt crisis of August 1982.  Faced with the loss of its
reserves, the reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or
extend new credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought
assistance from the International Monetary Fund in support of an
intensified ad-,ustment program. In February 1983 the IMF pledged financial
assistance of the order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and



3-
through the Extended Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Associated with
this were commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new
loans, the rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loans due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support, which were later extended into 1984.
7.        The primary objective of the program was the reduction of the
current account deficit and external borrowing requirements. The cruzeiro
was devalued by 30% in February 1983 and subsequently adjusted in line with
domestic inflation, import Lestrictions were increased, and tight fiscal
and monetary restraints were imposed. Imports fell by 21% in 1983, and
exports increased by 8.5Z in spite of adverse trading circumstances,
resulting in a trade surplus of US$6.5 billion and a reduction in the
current account deficit from US$14.8 billion to US$6.2 billion. The major
source of internal disequilibrium, the public sector deficit, was also
brouw. under control. Central Bank figures show that the consolidated
operational public sector deficit was reduced from 6.6% of GDP in 1982 to
2.5% in 1983, with a small surplus expected in 1984. In addition, steps
were taken to eliminate product and interest rate subsidies, adjust
relative prices for fuel and other products, reduce public expenditures and
increase revenues. The adjustment process continued during 1984, and,
although inflation has remained high, substantial progress was made towards
establishing a new basis for growth. In particular, strong export
expansion during 1984 resulted in earnings in excess of US$26 billion and a
trade surplus amounting to over US$12 billion.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments has nevertheless been
high. Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages
in the supply of tradable goods, increases in administered prices, very
high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation.  Preliminary
official estimates show a decline in GDP of 3.2% in 1983, concentrated in
the industrial and commercial sectors. On that basis, per capita GDP
declined by about 12% in 1981-83, and industrial employment by over 20%,
with the largest reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the
main industrial centers.
9.       Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is expected to grow
in the 3% range, or about 1% per capita. The increase in manufacturing
exports is assisting industrial recovery, despite the fact that for most
sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remains relatively
small. Overall expansion is still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, however, which can be expected to continue until there is s me
relaxation in the present austere demand management policies. In
particular, recovery is not likely to become generalized until real
interest rates fall from their present levels of 30-40%. Unless
significant progress is made against inflation, the outlook is for domestic
market conditions to improve only slowly. The end of the year annual
inflation is estimated at 224Z.
Economic Outlook
10.      The short-term economic outlook for Brazil appears much more
encouraging than that of a year before. The balance-of-payments situation
is much stronger, sone signs of recovery from the domestic recession are
apparent, and inflation is no longer accelerating. In addition, the



-4-
international economic situation appears more encouraging, with at least a
temporary easing of interest rates and oil prices. 1/ The international
financial environment also appears more accommodating than a year ago.
11.       The immediate prospects for the balance of payments appear quite
favorable following the trade surplus of over US$12 billion obtained for
1984. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much
of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US
dollars, total exports for the first eleven months were 23% greater than in
the same period in 1983; the comparable increase for industrial exports was
35X. Reflecting the favorable trade performance, Brazil's international
reserve position has also improved markedly.
12.       Inflation is no longer accelerating, but reducing it under the
current system of indexation and in the context of very resilient
inflationary expectations is proving to be exceedingly difficult.
Indexation, while making it difficult to reduce inflation, does of course
mitigate some of the adverse economic and social effects commonly
associated with inflation. Although the aggregate demand has been
substantially reduced, as a result of the measures taken to eliminate the
real consolidated public sector deficit, indexation and inflationary
expectations continue to propagate the inflation. A major challenge for
the new Government will be co restore confidence and, in doing so, dampen
inflationary expectations. To accomplish this, a comprehensive and
consistent medium-term strategy and a clearly stated and credible economic
program will be essential.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, assuming the continuation of the recovery now becoming
evident. This recovery depends, however, both upon the economic policies
pursued by the Government and a number of external economic conditions
outside the control of Brazilian policy-makers. The level of international
interest rates, oil prices, continued recovery in the OECD, the avoidance
of additional trade barriers for Brazil's exports, and the willingness of
the international commercial banks to increase their nominal exposures are
all critical for Brazil. At the same time, much will also depend upon the
conduct of national economic policies by the incoming Government.  The
present situation requires a comprehensive and integrated, medium-term,
strategy for structural adjustment and economic recovery. This strategy
should focus on greater production efficiency, an improved allocation of
economic resources, reduced inflation, increased investment and savings,
further export promotion, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
1/   Over three quarters of Brazil's external debt carries variable
interest rates, or is short-term, so that a change of 1% in average
interest rates means a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about
US$750 million. Similarly, a dollar per barrel change in average
annual oil prices has an impact of up to US$300 million on the trade
balance.



-5-
14.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economic recovery,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance, which turned positive in 1983 with the large trade
surplus of that year, would continue to grow, resulting in a further
reduction of the current account deficit. This deficit, which amounted to
US$6.2 billion in 1983 (equal to about 3% of GDP) and an estimated US$2.6
billion in 1984, is prcjected at US$2.4 billion in 1990.  The debt would
grow at much more modest rates than in the past. Total medium and
long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at an annual rate of
4.8% from 1983 to 1990, below the projected rate of international
inflation. The projections assume that gross disbursements would rise from
US$14 billion in 1985 to about US$22 billion in 1990 in current prices, and
amortization from US$10 billion to about US$15 billion in the sane period,
with net disbursements averaging approximately US$6 billion annually. For
private M&LT debt, the projections are consistent with reductions of total
real commercial bank exposure in Brazil and a reduced share of Brazilian
loans in total commercial bank lending portfolios. Nevertheless, continued
new lending will be required for the foreseeable future.
15.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would improve
substantially over the projection period. The total debt service ratio is
projected to fall from 82% in 1983 to a plateau of 69-70% for 1984-86, and
then decline gradually to about 46% in 1990. In the absence of any further
rescheduling, there would be an amortization bulge in 1986. The total
external debt as a multiple of total goods and non-factor service exports
is projected to decline continually, after having reached a high of 3.9 in
1982. By 1990 the ratio is projected to have fallen to 2.0.
16.       One striking feature of the balance-of-payments projections is
the magnitude of the projected net financial medium- and long-term resource
transfers (excess of interest over net new borrowing) from Brazil to its
creditors. This transfer would amount to almost US$8 billion in 1985. The
net resource transfer over the entire projection period would average 3X of
GDP annually. Even with these transfers, however, economic growth of a
reasonable magnitude could occur.
17.       Base case projections, with the component sectors of GDP
projected on the basis of assumed economic policies and individual sectoral
prospects, show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, with GDP growth increasing
from a projected 4.3% in 1985 to 6.6% in 1989. Throughout the 1984-90
period an average increase in real per capita consumption of 3.0% annually
is projected. Even so, it would not be until 1989 that the 1980 level of
per capita income would be restored.
18.       Alternative projections assuming a more vigorous pursuit of
export promotion policies produce more favorable results suggesting the
possibility, with eased foreign exchange constraints, of GDP growth
exceeding 7% a year by 1990. On the other hand, adverse changes in the
LIBOR, oil prices, and particularly in export growth (whether through
restraints by trading partners, adverse international economic conditions,
or inappropriate domestic economic policies) could undermine and delay the
recovery.



-6-
19.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
enormous uncertainties regarding future international market conditions.
Nevertheless, some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of
Brazilian development strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon
the country's success in expanding exports. Second, given the seriousness
of the external constraints, Brazil 's economic growth over the period
1984-90 will be more modest than during the 1970s. Third, to sustain that
more modest rate of growth will require both a continued net inflow of
external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly improved
savings effort from the domestic economy. Finally, despite the clear
difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has the
economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work its way out of
the present liquidity situation and resume a satisfactory rate of growth
while continuing to meet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil
should remain creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
magnitudes indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
20.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government over the past decade has made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced
illiteracy. Social security programs have been strengthened and extended
to rural areas, and upgrading and expanding health services for the poor
have received much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have
also been directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and .he
improved provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection
of these and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary
estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard
and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real
income gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains,
as reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the
impact of present economic difficulties on output and employment, however,
there is a possibility that some of these gains could have been seriously
eroded in the present crisis.  Slow growth in employment opportunities, at
the rates of GDP growth currently postulated for the 1980s, emerges as a
potentially serious problem. Large unemployment and underemployment would
persist well after the recession, unless strategies favoring more
labor-intensive activities or technologies are pursued.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By September 30, 1984 the Bank had made 134 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,725.3 million (net of cancellations), of which 69 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,



-7-
US$764 million in FY83, and US$1,405.0 million in FY84. The undisbursed
amount as of September 30, 1984 was US$3,782.9 million. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans.
22.       Over the FY77-83 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$1,457 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. They were US$52.7 million !or
a market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million
for an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural
credit and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase
of the Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a ru-ral
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$20.0 million for a technician training project, US$40.0 million for an
urban basic education project in the North-Centerwest regions, US$210
million for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the federal highway
network, US$55.5 million for basic health care in the State of Sao Paulo
and US$2.0 million for national health studies. In addition, a total of
US$30.5 million of supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects was approved in FY84. No loan has been approved
so far for Brazil in FY85. Work is relatively advanced however for a US$72
million loan for science and technology project, and for loans for a second
agricultural sector project, for electric power, for rural water, and for
three rural development projects in the Northeast of Brazil.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$81 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.3% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 3.5%.
24.       As of September 30, 1984, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,019.53 million, of which US$662.20 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$357.33 million, US$278.79 million
represent loans and US$78.54 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1984 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983 are being
reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing under
the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of project



-8-
costs of recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental
financing amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and
rural development projects, and amending existing loans where werranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of Project
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to
reduce the need for the Government to prefinaac Bank's share of project
costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is earected toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency tbrough
exposure to international competition. The proposed loan, following up on
two previous loans to BNDES, ais at strengthening industrial development
along these lines.  Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a
restructuring of incentive and trade policies in support of Government
initiatives, have been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up
loans designed to support the next steps in this adjustment process are
under preparation.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed tse need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, -vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development, were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in
greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities
are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition
research and development project and a first health. project for the
northwest region, a basic health care project in the state of Sao Paulo and
a national health studies project are helping promote efficiency, cost
effectiveness and equity in the delivery of health services in Brazil.



-9-
Several projects for rural and urban development, for health and for rural
water supply and sanitation, directed wainly to the needs of the lowest
income groups in the Northeast, are under preparation.
30.       Institution-buil.iug and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important coLponents of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank part;cipation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have been
provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten co-financing operations
for about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with private
financial institutions. Co-financing opportunities have been rather
limited in Brazil in the last two years, as the volume and terms of
commercial bank financing have been determined within the framework of the
debt rescheduling package. Co-financing could become more important in the
near future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank
participation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new co-financing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority p-- jects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND ITS FINANCING
Industrial Growth and Structural Change
31.       In the 30 years up to and including 1980, Brazil secured high and
occasionally spectacular rates of GDP growth largely because of the
expansion and diversification of its manufacturing sector.  In the 1950s
and 1960s, high rates of industrial growth averaging about 8% annually were
attained primarily through import substitution with high import protection
and the encouragement of foreign direct investment. The distortions
emerging in this process, including high production costs in some areas,
low labor absorption, high levels of capital intensity as reflected in both
product mix and technology choice and discrimination against the
agriculture sector and exports, led the Government, in the late 1960s, to
introduce s'ne trade policy liberalization measures. These measures
included increased export incentives, a reduction in import restrictions,
and improved exchange rate management. Exports began to grow rapidly, and
in 1971-73, GDP and industrial growth reached about 13% and 14Z per annum,
respectively.
32.       The first petroleum price shock of 1973-74 led to renewed import
restrictions and further import substitution efforts with increased
reliance on public sector enterprises. Manufacturing continued to expand,



- 10 -
and its share in GDP reached 28.6% in 1980, more than in most middle-income
developing countries. While the share of manufacturing in total exports
increased, only about 7% of total manufacturing output was exported in the
1970s.
33.       Uatil 1980, producers of capital goods and durable consumer goods
benefitted strongly from demand for machinery and equipment from
Government sponsored infrastructure and basic industry projects as well as
from rapidly rising consuler incomes. By 1979, these subsectors accounted
for over one-third of manufacturing employment, production and value
added.  Industries producing non-dirable consumer goods have lost much of
the dominance which prevailed at the initiation of the high growth period,
although they were still the largest industrial category in 1979.
34.       About 1,oOO of the 118,000 manufacturing enterprises covered by
the 1980 industrial census are considered to be large-scale according to
the definition employed by BNDES.21 They employ 50% of the country's 4.6
million industrial workers and generate two-thirds of manufacturing
output. The trend toward increased industrial concentration, which
has affected particularly the metal products and equipment industries since
1967, may have come to a halt during the current recession. Sub-sectors
with a high share of small and medium enterprises, particularly those
producing non-durable consumer goods , have been less affected by declining
demand than the capital goods industry which is dominated by large firms.
35.       Many large manufacturing plants are owned by foreign or public
sector enterprises. Public enterprises dominate in the steel, oil refining
and basic chemicals industries; foreign firms in the automotive, machinery
and equipment, and pharmaceuticals inaLstries and several sub-sectors of
the food processing industry. Some 530 foreign or publicly owned
manufacturing enterprises control about 40% of industrial production.
However, the current recession and the redirection of industrial policy in
Brazil are reducing the incentives for growth of public enterprises.
36.       Brazil 's manufacturing industry is concentrated in the
South-East, particularly in the Sao Paulo area where most of Brazil's metal
working, machinery and automotive industries are located. Government
inceative and investment policies have had only moderate success in
locating industry in the less developed North-Eastern part of Brazil. The
region increased its production share from 6.5Z in 1975 to 7.6% in 1980.
37.       While manufacturing was favored during the long period of high
economic growth, it has also suffered a more severe set-back than other
sectors during the current recession. While GDP fell by an estimated 6.0Z
in 1980-83, manufacturing output has fallen by about 16%, mainly in the
capital goods and durable consumer goods industries which had benefitted
during the growth period from high import protection and strong demand from
public sector projects. Capital goods production has declined since 1980
by about 30% and capacity utilization is below 60%. Intermediate and
2/ BNDES defines small and medium enterprises as firms with fixed assets
not exceeding 500,000 ORTN (about US$3.7 million).



- Hl -
non-durable consumer gocis industries are suffering less in the current
crisis, partly because of Ltheir higher competitiveness which permits
diversion of production toward export markets.  Overall, industrial
production during the third quarter of 1984 was still 13% below the 1980
level; manufacturing capacity utilization in Sao Paulo as estimated by the
Sao Paulo Federation of Industries, was 72Z, compared to over 84Z in 1980;
and industrial employment in the state of Sao Paulo (which generates more
than half of Brazil's industrial GDP) had declined by 23% since December
1980.
38.       The moderate recovery of industrial production during 1984 can
almost wholly be attributed to a strong export performance. While total
exports are growing at an annual rate of about 25%, exports of manufactures
are rising at 34% in 1984. The export share of manufacturing output is
currently estimated at over 15%, over twice the average of the 1970s. In
1980 over 4,000 firms were exporting part of their production and an
additional 1,000, mostly Brazilian-owned private enterprises, have started
exporting since 1980.
Industrial Policy
39.       Background. On the basis of a large domestic market and ample
resources, Brazil followed for most of the 1970s a development strategy of
expanding production primarily for the domestic market. As noted, this
involved high import protection and fiscal and financial incentives for
industry oriented to the domestic market, while incentives provided for
export production were generally inadequate to offset this bIas. As a
result, the Brazilian economy remained relatively closed and lack of import
competition created some areas of inefficiency.
40.       The main problem has been that effective domestic market
protection was high and widely disparate across different sectors and
industries.  The average rate of effective protecti,= for manufacturing in
1980-81 was estimated at 44%, with capital goods obtaining the highest
effective protection, exceeding in some cases 100%. Tariff rates vary from
zero to 205% but are subject to pervasive exemptions and tariff
reductions: in the first half of 1983 only about 8% of imports were
subject to the full specified duty, and duty collections were only 5.1% of
import values. Non-tariff restrictions are more important protective
devices than tariffs. Until September 9, 1984, import licenses had been
suspended for practically all products produced in Brazil, and the bulk of
imports were being made under special import systems (including Governmnt
import programs which have been severely cut back). Aboutc24 special
import programs are currently in operation.
41.       Changes in Import Policies.  Substantial changes in the import
regime are now being made. After liberalizing the duty drawback system in
1983 under the Bank's first Export Development Project,3/ the Government
has taken additional steps in the direction of trade and import
liberalization. In September 1984, the Government took the following
3/ Report No. P-3646-BR of September 15, 1983.



- 12 -
measures: (a) the list of products subject to suspended import licenses
was reduced from about 4,000 to about 2,000 items; (b) the need to
establish the unavailability of local supply to import externally financed
goods was eliminated; (c) minimum external financing requirements for
imports were lowered to reflect international credit conditions; and
(d) import surcharges were replaced by considerably lower import duties; as
a result, the average nominal import duty of items subject to surcharges
was reduced from 145% to 75%. Further measures under consideration are:
(i) the expansion of the duty drawback system to include indirect
exporters; (ii) further actions to be taken in the near future to
rationalize and reduce import restrictions; and (iii) preparation of a
medium-term, phased program of measures to continue import liberalization.
42.       Exchange Rate.  Since the maxi-devaluation of February 1983 (and
the coincidental growth of import demand in the United States) manufactured
export growth has sharply accelerated. The 1984 trade surplus will
exceed the US$9 billion target by more than US$3 billion and will be, by
far, the highest surplus ever achieved by Brazil. The Government is
currently maintaining a policy of mini-devaluation against the US dollar in
line with domestic inflation, and has indicated that this policy will
continue for the present. This would establish the basis for further
export growth and a continuation of the export-led recovery, which depend
critically on an exchange rate regime that keeps exports competitive in
world markets.
43.       Fiscal Incentives are contributing to manufactured export
profitability. Export production is exempted from taxation, including the
corporate tax on incue from exports. Exporters of manufactured goods also
receive a negotiable tax credit certificate of currently 9% of FOB export
value.  However, this incentive, the credito premio, is being gradually
phased-out and will be completely eliminated by April 1985. Finally, there
are two systems which provide imports of production inputs and machinery at
reduced import duty. The duty drawback system is already an effective
export promotion system and the Government is taking steps to expand it so
that domestic suppliers of production inputs to export manufacturers can
also import their inputs duty free. The Special Program of Fiscal
Incentives for Exporters (BEFIEX) system permits imports of machinery at
reduced duty rates for manufacturers entering into long-term export
commitments with the Government. Currently, more than 250 enterprises
maintain long term BEFIEX contracts, and about 30% of manufactured exports
(US$4.0 billion) are expected under such contracts in 1984.
44.       Preferential financing from credit lines operated by public
sector institutions is provided for both export and priority domestic
market manufacturing. In Line with the severe credit restrictions imposed
by the Government, the 1984 resources for export financing have been cut.
Consequently a major part of the export financing must be obtained on
commercial terms which are extremely high (exceeding 25% i-= real terms).
The pre-shipment credit system for manufactured exports was discontinued in



- 13 -
August 1984 and replaced by a new system under which the Government is to
grant an interest rate subsidy (interest equalization) to commercial banks,
equivalent to 1OZ-15Z, for qualifying exporters. It should be noted that
these exporters will still have to pay a 10-15Z real interest rate on the
pre-shipment credits that they may obtain from the banking system.  BNDES
and the State Development Banks are the most important sources of long-term
financing. Details of the credit programs operated by the development
banking system are described in paragraphs 62 through 66 below.
45.       Industrial Policy Reform. As noted above, industrial policies in
Brazil are currently undergoing substantial changes towards increased
e       market orientation.  Nevertheless, some price distortions, particularly
those supporting relatively capital-intensive techniques of production,
could continue to exist. The scheduled abolishment of some export
incentives for revenue purposes may also partly restore an anti-export bias
and provide support for import-intensive industrial production unless there
are compensating changes In other policies. Because of such concerns, the
Government has launched, in cooperation with the Bank, a series of studies
for a broad-based policy reform. Important studies on export and
industrial financing as well as on the import protection system are already
underway. Policy measures emanaring from these studies would be considered
for implementation in the future and could be instrumental in correcting
price distortions remaining in the system.
46.       Outlook.  Brazil's manufacturing sector has the potential to
resume its role as the leading sector in the economy, if industrial
policies continue to be adjusted toward increased market orientation and
new investment is chanelled into activities that make good use of Brazil's
ample human and raw material resources. Recent steps and those
contemplated to reduce subsidies and liberalize trade should help to
achieve a more efficient allocation of investment resources. The
introduction of economic project evaluation procedures in BNDES end other
investment decision making institutions which would be supported under the
proposed project, would also contribute to more efficient resource use.
47.       At the present time, there are relatively few supply problems to
restrict industrial growth. There is idle productive capacity in
practically all industries, and labor at all skill levels is also readily
available. Export-oriented enterprises can acquire imported production
inputs and machinery under the duty drawback and the BEFIEX systems without
major difficulty.  On the demand side, however, there exist serious
problems for Brazilian manufacturers because of the lack of domestic demand
and protectionist pressures which have become apparent in a number of the
foreign markets in which Brazil sells. Yet, the evidence suggests that
exporters have had some success in adjusting to the requirements of foreign
markets. Provided that Brazilian manufacturers obtain the financial



- 14 -
support necessary for upgrading product quality and design, large foreign
markets could be opened up, particularly for agro-industrial products,
metal products and equipment.
48.       Industrial Sector Financing Requirements and Brazil's Financial
System. GDP growth is expected to be over 3Z in 1984, because of the
export-led industrial recovery experienced during this year. In 1985,
manufacturing is expected to grow by at least 5% to 6% and manufactured
exports by double this rate.  In spite of the idle capacity in Brazil's
manufacturing sector, these growth rates would generate a substantial need
for investment in fixed assets for new or improved products and permanent
working capital, particularly in export-oriented industries.  The most
recent data, of i979, show that fixed investment in manufacturing was
US$8.6 billion of which US$2.8 billion were invested by small and medium
enterprises, US$2.3 billion by large Brazilian private enterprises and
US$3.5 billion by public and foreign enterprises. Fixed investment during
1985 and 1986 will probably be only about one-half of 1979 levels,
corresponding to about US$6.0 billion p.a. in current dollar values. Fixed
investment by Brazilian private manufacturing enterprises would, in these
circumstances, amount to around US$3.5 billion in each year, though this
could increase rapidly if the recovery gathers momentum.
49.       Working capital requirements were shown in the 1979 census data
to average about 15% of the value of manufacturing production. Recent low
demand and the current high cost of finance have led manufacturers to
reduce inventories to abnormally low levels. Consequently, there exists a
need to meet minimal working capital requirements in 1985 and 1986 in spite
of the expected prevailing high interest rates. Assuming a temporary ratio
of working capital to total output of 25Z, and an annual increase of around
US$20.0 billion in the current value of production, the incremental needs
for working capital for Brazilian private manufacturing enterprises could
amount to about US$2-3 billion per annum in 1985 and 1986. The US$300.0
million loan proposed in this report would finance a relatively sr'll but
important part of these fixed and working capital requirements in 1985 and
1986. The project would finance investments totalling about US$937.0
million shared between SHE and large firms, and would meet about 8% of
their total requirements, including around 11% of working capital needs.
50.       The Financial System.  Brazil's complex financial system is
organized in two tiers>4/ The first consists of the Central Bank (BACEN)
and the Bank of Brazil TBB) (which form the Monetary Authority), the
National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES), and the National
Housing Bank (BNH). Except for BACEN, these institutions lend directly and
also pass on funds for relending to the group of second-tier financial
intermediaries: the commercial and investment banks, the State Development
Banks (SDBs), the finance companies, and the savings and loan institutions.
4/ An analysis of Brazil's financial system can be found in the World Bank
report: Brazil - Financial System Review (Washington, D.C. 1984). See
also World Bank, Brazil - Economic Memorandum, 1983 (Washington, D.C.
1984), Chapter 2, for an analysis of the flow of funds and the
financing of the public sector.



- 15 -
51.       In addition to having most of the responsibilities and functions
of a central bank, BACEN also supplies funds for various Government
programs. BNDES, the national development bank, is the main source of long
term financing for the industrial sector. There are 107 commercial banks
of which 81 are private and 21 are owned by stxite governments. They
concentrate on short term credit, although on a limited scale they a   as
intermediaries for term lending by the federal banks. The 37 investment
It       banks lend mostly for working capital, but also c'nannel term funds, mainly
from BNDES. However, they play an important role in assisting larger
clients raise long-term capital through the placement and underwriting of
9        corporate debt and equity.  The SDBs are government-owned state and
regional development banks, acting principally as agencies for BNDES term
credit to the industrial, service and distribution sectors.
52.       Private pension funds have been the most rapidly growing
component of the long term capital market and currently have assets of
US$4.4 billion.   The corporate debenture market grew rapidly until
recently, owing to severe bank credit limits and wide spreads in the
banking system, and in 1981 issues totaled some US$1.7 billion. Issues in
this market virtually ceased at the end of 1983 when the tax law was
changed making yields unattractive to investors. Leasing companies have
expanded in real terms at a rapid rate since the mid-1970s. In response to
the recent restrictive credit limits, a large volume of non-negotiable
inter-company borrowings has developed.
53.       Recent Financial Policies and Conditions.  By the end of 1983,
after Brazil had experienced three years of negative per capita growth and
inflation reached 211% for the year, debate intensified on the need for a
change in economic strategy, including a major reform of the financial
system which would establish BACEN as the sole Monetary Authority, transfer
its development banking functions to BB and/or BNDES, and curtail the use
of credit subsidies, which would have to be financed from the Federal
budget subject to Congressional control.
54.       In 1984, inflation remained high, exceeding 200% for the second
year in a row. A continued tight monetary policy, government imposed
credit ceilings and the short maturities of liabilities have created
serious liquidity problems for many industrial enterprises. Domestic
interest rates have been on the order of 25% p.a. and above in real terms.
By the third quarter of the year, there were, however, clear signs of an
export-led recovery in economic activity.  Nevertheless, maxi-devaluations
in December 1979 and February 1983 have increased the indebtedness of firms
with foreign obligations and a combination of depressed output and very
high domestic interest rates have resulted in losses, eroded equity and
increased short-term indebtedness. Some firms in highly cyclical
industries such as capital goods or construction, especially those which
entered the recessionary period with substantial indebtedness, are in
significant financial distress. From a long run point of view, many of
these companies are efficient. When growth resumes and real interest rates
fall to normal levels, these firms should be financially viable.



- 16 -
Unfortunately, in the interim, high financial charges and operating losses
have eroded equity to the point where bankruptcy has occurred. Under
current conditions, there is an extreme need for long-term debt and equity
finance by Brazilian industrial firms to strengthen their financial
positions: Equity finance is needed because balance sheets have become
more leveraged; long-term finance is needed to refinance excessive short
term borrowings, reduce current debt service obligations and undertake new
capital investments. The proposed loan would help meet the need for
long-term finance to support investments by export firms and SMEs.
Past Lending and Bank Strategy
55.       The Bank's first loan to BNDES to finance SMEs dates back to
February 1976 (First Development Banking Project, Loan 1206-BR, US$85.0
million,   The loan was not fully committed mainly because, between 1976
and 1980, the bulk of BNDES lending programs for SMEs carried heavily
subsidized and negative real interest rates. Furthermore, because of
budgetary constraints and other priorities, BNDES was also unable to fully
comply with its institution-building undertakings under the loan. In 1980,
after about 37% of the loan had been disbursed, the balance (US$53.8
million) was cancelled. This project is the subject of a Project
Completion Repor-; dated November 30, 1981. A Project Performance Audit
Report, under preparation, is expected to be submitted to the Bank's
Executive Directors shortly. A draft of this Audit Report concluded that
the project, while making only a small contribution to improving the
systems and procedures of BNDES and the SDBs, nevertheless helped sensitize
BNDES to the necessity of strengthening the national system of development
banks. The report also pointed to the need for further improving the
appraisal and super-ision work of some SDBs, particularly the introduction
of economic analysis. These institutional improvements are being pursued
in the Second Development Banking Project (para. 56) and are also a
principal focus of the proposed project.
56.       In May 1982, the Bank's Industrial Sector Report (No. 3766-BR of
July 2, 1982) was discussed with the Government. The Government expressed
its agreement with the report's scope and main recommendations including
such areas as export subsidy reductions, interest rate policy and domestic
price controls, where important policy improvements were being initiated by
the Government. This improved policy framework and dialogue and the fact
that the specific problems that affected Loan 1206-BR had been rectified,
led the Bank to approve, on December 21, 1982, a Second Development Banking
Project loan for USS220.0 million (Loan 2225-BR). This loan is helping
BNDES to finance mainly small and medium enterprises (SME) through the SDBs
and is ftrther contributing to strengthening the institutional capabilities
of SDBs, some of which are now applying economic analysis for at least the
larger projects they finance.
57.       The implementation of the Second Development Banking Project is
proceeding satisfactorily. As of October 31, 1984, US$175.0 million
equivalent of the loan had been committed, and US$171.0 million had been
disbursed (including the US$25.0 million advance in a Special Account in
the Central Bank). The loan has disbursed rapidly since March 1983 when
the Bank, as part of the Special Action Program, agreed to increase its



- 17 -
financing from 50% to 67% of subloans for fixed assets and related working
capital and from 12.5X to 50% of subloans for permanent working capital
only, and to finance 50% of subloans for financial restructuring operations
in certain cases to improve the maturity structure of the debts of
baesically sound firms with liquidity problems. Some 55% of loan
cortmitrients as of June 30, 1984 had been used for working capital and
fin&,ncial restructuring loans for SMEs to rebuild inventories, to maintain
or reguii- capacity utilization and employment levels, or to restructure a
firm's debt by making a term loan at a reasonable interest rate.
Disbursements in these restructuring cases were limited to purchases of
inventories in the preceding six months. *"e remaining 45% of loan
commitments have been used for fixed asse.s and permanent working capital
financing. The loan is expected to be fully committed by March 1985 and
fully disbursed by late 1985.
58.       As noted above, dialogue between the Government and the Bank on
industrial and financial policies has expanded in recent years and a number
of policy measures have been adopted by the Government with a view to
expanding manufacturing exports, increase industrial efficiency and allow
the financial system to mobilize and allocate resources more effectively.
Improvements in exchange rate and trade policies adopted in 1983 have been
strengthened and broadened by import liberalizati6n measures adopted in the
past few months. At the same time, current tight credit restrictions,
which can be expected to continue for some time, are hampering efforts by
soundly-managed and efficient small and medium enterprises and export
manufacturers to adjust to the new policy environment and contribute to
Brazil's export drive. The proposed loan would continue the Bank's support
for the policy reform efforts by helping to ease the credit constraints
imposed on private industry.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
*       59.       The project was identified by the Bank in September 1983 and was
prepared by BNDES with the help of Bank staff. It was appraised in
May/June 1984 and the appraisal mission's report (No.5277-BR dated
January 1984 entitled -Staff ADraisal Report - Third Development Banking
Project-) is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. .Negotiations of the loan took place in
Washington from December 10 through December 15, 1984. The Brazilian
delegation was headed by Mr. Bernardo Frydman of BNDES.
Project Objectives
60.       The basic objectives of the project would be as follows:
(a) to provide term credit on reasonable terms to enable larger
manufacturing companies to initiate a program to export or
increase exports; to this effect, the project would help finance
purchases introduction of quality control systems to reorient
production or adapt it to the needs of foreign markets;



- 18 -
(b) to provide additional resourcets for small and medium enterprises
after Loan 2225-BR is fully committed; and
(c) to establish within BNDES the proc.adures and capabilities for
doing economic analysiB, to begin using economic analysis in
project selection and evaluation, and to continue the process
started in Loan 2225-BR of expanding the capability and
procedures in the state and regional development banks for doing
economic evaluation of the larger projects they finance.
The project is expected to be carried out over a period of about four years
beginning April 1985.
Project Execution
61.       The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the Borrower and would
make the resources of the loan available to BNDES through the Central Bank
(BACEN). Appropriate arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for channeling
the loan resources to BNDES would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Sectiou 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). BNDES would make the Bank
resources for SMEs available to eligible financial intermediaries through
the Program of Joint Operations with Agents (POC) of BNDES' Projects
Department III (AP-Ill), and resources for direct operations with larger
export companies available through BNDES' Projects Department I (AP-I).
For the most part, these institutional arrangements have been patterned
after those for the Second Development Banking Project which have proven
satisfactory. -INDES' onlending terms and conditions would be in accordance
with its policies and procedures for the respective operations which are
satisfactory (para. 74).
BNDES Operations and Performance
62.       The BNDES System 5/ is one of the principal channels for term
credit and investment capit7aL for both private and public companies in
Brazil. The system comprises BNDES and its two subsidiaries: FINAME,
which finances the acquisition of machinery and equipment fabricated in
Brazil, and BNDESPAR into which three former subsidiaries, which operated
in the capital goods, basic inputs, and consumer goods sectors, were
recently merged. Until May 1982, BNDES financed its operations principally
from two social funds (the resources of which it adninistered for a fee),
domestic and foreign borrowings, capital contributions of the Federal
Government, retained earnings, and resources supplied by the Government for
special programs. In May 1982, it was given the responsibility for
administering a new social fund (FINSOCIAL), financed by an earmarked 0.5%
turnover tax, to be used to finance projects in food, low cost housing,
health, education and small scale farming and was again made responsible to
5I   Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social (BNDES), Agencia
Especial de Financiamento Industrial (FINAME), and BNDES
Participagoes, S.A. (BNDESPAR).



- 19 -
SEPLAN as it had been prior to 1979 when it was placed under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. In June 1983 it
was made the financial agent of the Merchant Marine Fund with
responsibility for disbursing funds for projects approved by the Merchant
Marine Council.
63.       Between 1979 and 1983, the BNDES System approved loans and
investments totaling US$19.6 billion equivalent, principally for industry
but also for energy and transportation and since 1982 for social programs
through FINSOCIAL. Although the Southeast Region, and principally the most
*f      highly developed area of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, has benefited most
from BNDES resources, BNDES has allocated its funds on a broad geographical
basis. Most BNDES operations are direct loans, equity participations and
guarantees, and loan operations through financial intermediaries; however,
it also has programs to capitalize private national companies by loans to
investors and investment bankers to subscribe for shares or debentures of
national enterprises. At the end of 1983 BNDES had total assets of US$15.5
billion. Over the years, BNDES has managed its operations on a profitable
basis. However, in 1983 it suffered large losses from the maxi-devaluation
of the cruzeiro both on its own uncovered foreign exchange position and
that of its subsidiaries and affiliates. BNDES passes on most of the
foreign exchange risk on its borrowing to its larger customers and is
taking steps to }.ave its foreign exchange exposure completely covered by
the end of 1986. BNDES agreed during negotiations to take measures, as
necessary, to ensure that its foreign exchange exposure is minimized
(Section 2.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement). Although BNDES'
provision for bad debts is small, i.e. about 0.3% of its outstanding
portfolio, BNDES considers, and its external auditors agree, that the
provision is sufficient since BNDES holds adequate real guarantPes on its
loans.
64.       BNDES' AP-III is responsible for the analysis, contracting and
supervision of operations and programs through financial intermediaries,
namely, the state and regional development banks, the state commercial
banks with development portfolios, and the investment banks. AP-III also
supervises the performance of these financial intermediaries and
coordinates the provision of technical and managerial assistance to SDBs.
AP-III had 110 staff at the end of June 1984. Staff are generally well
qualified, with a number of years of experience working with financial
intermediaries.  AP-III's main program of operations is its Program of
Joint Operations through financial intermediaries (POC) which the proposed
loan would support. In recent years as the SDB system has matured, AP-III
has shifted from mainly reviewing specific subprojects and programs
financed through financial intermediaries, to giving greater emphasis on
the institutional, organizational and financial condition of the
intermediaries.



- 20 -
65.       There are two project areas responsible for direct operations:
Project Areas I and II (AP-I and AP-II). AP-II deals with projects in
energy, regional and agricultural development, and infrastructure. BNDES'
AP-I is responsible for the analysis, contracting and supervision of the
direct industrial operations of ENDES. It has three departments for
Chemical Industries, Metallurgy and Mining, and Traditional Capital Goods
Industries. At the end of June 1984 it had 141 qualified and competent
staff.  AP-I resources are normally used to finance civil works, working
capital and financial restructuring, often jointly with FINAME (equipment)
and BNDESPAR (equity participations). BNDES follows the priorities
established by the Government for selecting projects and emphasizes
financial rather than economic evaluations of projects. BNDES would
gradually introduce cost-benefit analysis and economic rate of return
calculations for industrial projects it finances along the lines described
in paras. 67 through 69 below.
The State and Regional Development Banks
66.       The system of financial intermediaries consists of the SDBs (the
12 state development banks, 4 regional development banks, and 11 state
commercial banks with development portfolios) and the 37 private investment
banks. Although a number of the SDBs only started to operate in the 1970s,
they have proved to be dynamic instruments which the federal and state
authorities use for implementing their economic development policies. At
the end of 1983 the SDBs had assets totalling US$5.0 billion. Because of
the severe recession and the recent limitations placed on the flow of
resources to public enterprises, the loan portfolios of the SDBs have
deteriorated seriously and some have suffered losses and a rise in
debt/equity ratios. AP-III is attempting to assist the SDBs by: providing
more term resources to the SDBs for investments and the financial
strengthening of their customers; making loans to the state governments
when the financial condition of the state governments improves for equity
participations in the SDBs; and supporting the training of SDB staff to
strengthen their project evaluation and administration capabilities. The
proposed project would support BNDES' efforts to strengthen the
intermediaries institutionally and financially. During negotiations the
Bank agreed with BNDES on a Plan of Action for strengthening the SDBs
financially and operationally including a program of training and technical
assistance to be carried out through the Association of Development Banks
(ABDE) and on increases in the onlending rates and financial spreads on
AP-III programs. It was also agreed that Bank funds would not be used to
finance subprojects of SDBs which do not meet the financial standards
established by the Central Bank e.g. debt not in excess of fifteen times
equity (Sections 2.07 and 2.01(c) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 21 -
Institutional Strengthening of the Brazilian National System of Development
Banks
67.       The key institution-building objective of the proposed project is
to upgrade economic analysis capabilities within BNDES for making more use
of economic analysis 4n project selection and evaluation. A Project
Evaluation Plan for these purposes has been prepared by BNDES in
consultation with the Bank and agreed during loan negotiations. It calls
for a gradual introduction of cost-benefit analysis and economic rate of
return calculations into BNDES project analysis over a period startinb
April 1, 1985 and ending September 30, 1986. As an initial step, BNDES
would complete, not later than March 10, 1985, a review of the
methodologies and experience of similar institutions in doing economic
cost-benefit analysis, define the methodology to be introduced in BNDES and
the parameters and criteria for its application, select the sectors and
sequence in which the methodology will be applied, and identify the
operating procedures, organizational arrangements, training and technical
assistance requirements for implementing the new methodology. A detailed
Project Evaluation Plan based on the findings of the review would be
discussed with the Bank and submitted to BNDES' Board for approval. A
condition of loan effectiveness would be approval by BNDES' Board of the
detailed Project Evaluation Plan (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
68.       Over the period starting April 1, 1985 and ending March 31, 1986,
BIIDES would complete the introduction of cost-benefit analysis in
accordance with the defined methodology, parameters and criteria for
projects in the initial sectors identified following the review referred to
above. From February 1, 1986 to March 31, 1986, BNDES would carry out an
evaluation of its experience with cost-benefit .aalysis in accordance with
terms of reference agreed upon with the Bank in order to take into account
lessons learned for applying the analysis in the remaining sectors. Over
the period starting April 1, 1986 and ending September 30, 1986, BNDES
would complete the introduction of cost-benefit analysis for projects in
the remaining sectors including industrial-projects which it finances
directly and which are above a total project cost of 500,000 ORTN (about
US$3.7 million).
69.       No later than June 30, 1986, direct industrial subprojects
submitted by BNDES for Bank financing would include a cost-benefit
analysis.  Until such a requirement is met the Bank would normally
authorize only direct industrial subprojects for firms which have
demonstrated their efficiency by exporting at least 10% of their production
in one or more of the preceding three years. Until the Bank has received
satisfactory evidence that BNDES has begun using cost-benefit analysis and
rate of return calculations for AP-1 subloans, following the initial review
and evaluation referred to in paragraph 68 above, the Bank would limit its
approvals for disbursement to subloans totalling not more than US$50.0
million for BNDES directly financed industrial subprojects and not more
than US$100.0 million for SMEs. Moreover, if BNDES fails to carry out the
Project Evaluation Plan on terms satisfactory to the Bank, the Bank may



-22 -
suspend the right of BXiDES to present subloan applications under the
project. The above understandings are reflected in Section 2.03(d) and in
Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement.
Cost and Financing
70.      The loan would sapport an investment program (of about 24 months)
totalling about US$937.0 million.  Bank and BNDES resources combined
would cover about 60Z of the total cost of eligible subprojects for SMEs,
and 50Z for projects with larger enterprises. Project beneficiaries would
finance the rest of subproject cost from their own resources. The Bank
loan would cover 67% of BNDES' disbursements for subprojects for fixed
assets and permanent working capital and 50% of subprojects for permanent
working capital only. The Bank loan would finance about 32X of the cost of
eligible subprojects. This is above the estimated foreign exchange
component of 20%, but is justified so that the Bank can make a reasonable
contribution to subproject financing. The proposed US$300.0 million loan
includes the capitalized front-end fee of US$0.75 million and US$1.0
million to cover the cost of training and technical assistance to introduce
economic project analysis.
Loan Features
71.       Eligible sub-borrowers would be (a) small and medium Brazilian-
owned or controlled private enterprises wita fixed assets, including the
new investment being financed, not exceeding 500,000 ORTN 6, (about US$3.7
million), in all productive, distributive and service activities except
agriculture and housing; and large Brazilian-owned or controlled industrial
enterprises for investments not exceeding 1.5 million ORIN (about US$11.0
million) financed through financial agents; and (b) large, private,
Brazilian owned or controlled industrial enterprises which receive
resources directly from BNDES to initiate a program to export or increase
exports. Subloans would be for fixed assets and permanent working capital
to expand facilities and for working capital only to expand production.
72.       In accordance with its Project Evaluation Plan BNDES would not be
required to include a cost-benefit analysis in the direct industrial
subprojects submitted to the Bank for financing until June 30, 1986. Until
this requirement is met, the Bank would finance only large enterprises
which had demonstrated their efficiency by exporting at least 0OZ of their
sales in one or more of the preceding three years. Moreover, subproject
evaluations would be required to include detailed financial forecasts and
financial rate of return calculations. After June 30, 1986 the Bank would
finance large privately controlled industrial enterprises which have a
program to export or expand or reorient production for export. The Bank
would require a cost-benefit analysis of the first five direct industrial
subprojects submitted for financing. On the basis of the quality of these
evaluations and BNDES progress in carrying out the Project Evaluation Plan,
BNDES and the Bank would discuss establishing a free limit for such
subprojects (Section 2.12 of the draft Project Agreement).
6/   Provided they do not belong to a group with equity above one million
ORTN.



- 23 -
73.       For SMEs, financial intermediaries would be responsible for
preparing subprojects. AP-III sets its own free limits for the financial
intermediaries depending upon their experience and the quality of their
project evaluations. For subloans thro_gh financial intermediaries for
investment projects above 350,000 OR:N (about US$2.5 million), BNDES wield
send to the Bank its evaluation and the financial agent's evaluation, woich
would include, after June 30, 1986, an appropriate economic evalration of
the investment project. Until June 30, 1986 subloan applications for
projects costing more than 350,000 ORTN would include detailed financial
forecasts and a financial rate of return calculation. For projects costing
less than 350,000 ORTN where BNLDS' subloans exceeds !5NDES' free limit with
the financial agent, BNDES would send the financial agent's evaluation
(without an economic evaluation) ai.d its evaluation. For otbr- smaller
subloans through AP-II, the Bank would be sent a copy of BNDES' project
summary. It is expected that overall the Bank would review about 30 to 35
subprojects representing about 402 of t- 2 Bank loan.
Relending Terms
74.       The proposed Bank lo2n would be made to the Federative Republic
of Brazil at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. It would be
repayable over 15 y ars on a fixed amortization basis, including three
years of grace. Loan proceeds would be made available to BNDES on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan, and BNDES would take the foreign
exchange risk on the Bank loan. For SHE subloans EDES would onlend the
proposed loan to pa cicipating intermediaries at rates from 1% to 9.5%
p.a. in real terms. 7/ depending upon the region, type of project and size
of enterprise financed. Financial intermediaries would charge spreads of
2.5Z to 5% p.a. and onlend to final beneficiaries at rates from 6Z to 12%
p.a. The final intermediaries would take the credit risk on all sevloans.
For subloans to large enterprises BNDES would onlene at 6% to 10% p.a.
depending upon the sector or at BNDES cost of resources plus a 22 p.a.
spread. In order to pr.'.ect itself from foreign exchange risks, ENDES'
policy is to pass on tne risk on its foreign borrowings to its larger
clients. The principal of all subloans would be corrected for changes in
inflation according to the ORTN index. Interest rates are expected to be
positive in real terms over the life of the subloanLs and would be reviewed
f        periodically between BNDES and the Bank and would be revised in order to
maintain a reasonable relationship between BNDES' rates and market rates in
Brazil (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement). Subloan maturities
would be up to 10 years, with up to three years of grace for SHE loans and
for up to 15 years including up to 18 months of grace after project
completion for loans to larger companies.
Disbursements and Procurement
75.       The Bank loan is expected to be committed -n about 24 months, and
disbursed in about 30 months for SME projects (as in 2225-BR) and in about
7I   Rates favor the poorer regions, with the Northeast at the lower end of
the range.



- 24 -
four years for projects with the larger enterprises, in accordance with
BNDES' experience. The final date for submission of subloan proposals
would be December 31, 1987, and the closing date December 31, 1989. The
Bank would reimburse BNDES for a share of its disbursements on the basis of
certificates of expenditure, and BNDES external auditors would, as part of
BNDES' annual audit, give an opinion as to whether statements of
expenditure can be relied upon to support disbursement applications. In
any case, especially for the large direct BNDES operations, Bank
supervision missions would check a sample of statements of expenditure
against supporting documentation. IQ order to reduce the interval duLing
which BNDES would finance the Bank's share of subloans, a Special Account
would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up to
US$35-0 million from the loan account. The Bank would replenish the
Special Account on the basis of withdrawal applications sent by the Central
Bank after it had paid BNDES.
76.       Bank resources would finance principally civil works and
inventories as most machinery and equipment included in subprojects would
be financed, not with Bank resources but through FINAME, a BNDES subsidiary
which finances domestically manufactured equipment with more than 85Z
Brazilian content. Such machinery and equipment would not be eligible for
Bank financing under the loan. Bowever, machinery and equipment financed
directly by BWDES (which would be mainly imported) would be eligible for
financing under the loan. Contracts for the procurement of machinery and
equipment, estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2.0 million each or more
will be awarded through international shopping involving at least three
(including at least two foreign) bids. Other procurement for subprojects
would be in accordance with standard practice for loans to DFCs and would
follow normal commercial practices of private sector enterprises, the
beneficiaries of the proposed loan. These practices and BNDES' procedures
are adequate to assure that the goods and services it finances are obtained
in an economic and efficient manner. In the case of civil works, the
Brazilian construction industry is highly developed and as a result few, if
any, foreign contractors would bid except on very large civil works
contracts and many would be dissuaded even in these cases from bidding
because of the low capacity utilization of the Brazilian corstruction
industry. In the case of inventories, Brazilian companies obtain their raw
materials in most cases from established domestic or foreign sources of
supply or engage in domestic or international shopping as a matter of
established business practice.
Project Benefits and Risks
77.       The proposed loan would supplement the limited resources of BNDES
which is at present practically the only financial institution that
provides medium- and long-term financing to industry. By improving access
by efficient small- and medium-scale enterprises and export manufacturers
to term credit on reasonable terms, the project would support the
reorientation of production needed to raise the export competitiveness of
Brazilian manufacturers. It would make a significant contribution to
sustaining the incipient export-led recovery of industrial production and
employment. The upgrading of economic analysis capabilities within BIDES
aad the SDBs and the changes in procedures in these institutions to make



more use of economic analysis in project selection and evaluation, besides
representing a major institutional change in the Brazilian national system
of development banks, would greatly contribute to improving overall
allocation of investment resources in Brazil.
78.       The major risk associated with the project arises from the fact
that internal institutional opposition could undermine or delay the
application by BNDES and other investment decision-making institutions of
appropriate economic cri-aria in project selection and evaluation. Gradual
introduction of the new evaluation procedures coupled with appropriate
staff.training and process monitoring are designed to help mitigate this
risk. Bank staff would be available to assist BNDES in the implementation
of the new project evaluation procedures. There is also a risk that the
Government may fail to adjust the ORTN to fully reflect domestic
inflation. This occurred for several months during the latter part of
1983, but the Government resumed full lndexation following discussions with
the Bank and the realizatiion of the negative inipact of their action in the
financial markets.  Covenants on the indexation of financial assets
included in many Bank loans would help reduce this risk. It !gas been
agreed that if the adjustment of the principal of BNDES' loans, together
with the interest rates applicable to such loans shall, in the Bank's
opinion, fail to be positive in relation to the prevailing inflation rate
in Brazil, commitments and disbursements could be suspended (Section
2.03(d)(ii)(A) of the draft Project Agreement and Section 5.01(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the
National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES), and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Conditions of effectiveness will be the execution of
appropriate arrangements satisfactory to the Bank between the Federative
Republic of Brazil and BNDES for transferring the Bank resources to BNDES
and approval by BNDES' Board of Directors of the detailed Project
Evaluation Plan for introducing cost-benefit analysis and economic rate of
return calculations into BNDES' project analysis. Until the large
industrial projects submitted for Bank financing include a cost-benefit
analysis and economic rate of return calculation, loan commitments would be
limited to US$50.0 million for loans to larger enterprises and US$100.0
million for loans to SMEs.



- 26 -
PART VI - RECCIEDATIOM
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed logn would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bazk.
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachmeuts
January 10, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-27-                                      Pa9iej1of 5
BRAZIL                - SOCIUL tNDICATOS M   SR
RtAL                                         COP  (ISIGfmD sUMS) I.
OST                (HIOST RECNT RIM  
N77T          KlIWIS RbCDE         HICLDBS ICE
1940&     1971e.   zstmsjik    LA?. aSICUCA4 Ca              5363
AA (THOUAND ma. W)
TOTAL                           8512.0      6512.0     6512.0                ,
aRICUILTURAL                    1636.4      1961.2     2352.7
a? MR CAPA CUSS)                    330.0      0600.0     2240.0           2106.0                  Z345.3
(KULCURAIS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)    24.0       412.0      740.0            95.5                   1122.6
voum  a   a  sInICC
POPULATION.HID-YEAR (THOUSaNS)  72594.0    9547.0   1Z260.O
t.              OM       UATION (Z OF TOaL)        4.9        55.6       68.8              -. S
POPUIATIOt PRDJIECFIOIs
POPUATION IN TA 2000 (HL L)                           181.1
STATION  POPULATrOS (MILL)                            303.4
POPULATION MOIE11U                                      1.5
POPULATION DENSITY
PfR SQ_ mm-                      5.5        11.3       14.4             35.7                    62.9
PER SQ. M. AGRI. LAND           ".4        4*.4        52.7             92.4                   15869
POPULATION ACE STRUCrUltE CZ)
0-1 iRS                        *3.6        42.7       40.9             39.9                    31.0
15-64 TRS                       53.8        54.3       55.6             56.0                    61.1
65 AND AOVE                      2.6         3.1        3.5              4.1                     7_1
POPULATION CRMIf RATE (Z)
TOTAL                            3.1 tLI                2.3              2.4                     1.S
URBAN                            5.7         5.0        4.1              3.6                     3.7
CUE SIM RATE (PE  BMEUS)          42.7        35.0       31.2             31.3                    23.4
CRUDEEATH RATE (PER TIEDUS)       12.9        10.3        3-1             6.1                      8-8
GRO  REPOOCTION RATE               3.0         2.4        1.9              2.0                     1.4
FAMILY PLAIUN
ACCEPORS. ANWL (TcW)                       111.0      203-6 Ic
USERS (2 OF MRRID WOE)             _          __          _             40-
POOID AND lT10"n
INEX OF FWoD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     89.0       102.0      133.0            114.3                   114.5
PEM C A SUPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREOITS)    106.0       104.0      107-0            110.6                   128.6
PREINS (GRES PER DAY)           6440        62.0       60.0             07.3                    89.7
OF WHICH1 ANIAL AND PULSE     35.o        3e.0       36.0 /d          34.1                    34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       19.4        12.5       860               5.7                     5.2
LIFE EXPECr- IT 1IRTH (VEANS)     54.7        56.9       63.6 J.-7                                67.4
INFANrT HORT. RATE (PER THOMS)   118.2        98.0       73.4            60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATB (SlOP)
TOAL                              ..        55.0       77n. /e          65.4
URBAN                                       7680       5s - 7;          78.1
RURAL                                       28.0       56.6 7;          46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DLSPOSAL
6                 (Z OF POPUIATIOi)
TOTAL                             .         58.0       64.6 Il          52.9
URBAN                             ..        850         3.7 7;          67.0
RURAL                              .        240        31.7 7;          24.5                      -
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2210o.      2130.0         -            1917.7                  1065.6
POP. PERl NRSING PERSOnS        2810.0      1120.0                      6815.6                  74.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL 8ED
TOTJAL                         310.0       270.0      250.0 Ie         367.2                   326.3
URBN                           Z50.0       320 e.-0                    411.5                   201.5
RURAL                                                                 2636.3
ADlISSIOES PEt HOSPIAL BED         ,     ,   18.4          ..             27.3                    20.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.1         4.8        4.9 Ie
URBN                              ..         4.6        4.7              ..
RURAL                                        5.2        5 37;
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOS/IROON
TOTAL                             ..         1.1
URBAN                             ..         1.0
RURAL                              .         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT- (Z OF weICS)
TOTAL                           36.7        47.6       67.4
URBAN                              .        75.6       88.5
RURAL                             ..         5.6       20.b



AMNE X I
-28 -                                       Page 2 of 5
33621?.                - SOCIAL INDIATORS OATA S3
BRAZIL   -Z?RVM GRoun  ImcITD AVERAGES) L
mOST                (OST RECE  ESTnA??) -b
p~~~ID> p  ja                    MSX>.-TuE
l9601k    1i7gtf    zSo               TMr.II  41CACM             nRoPE
ADJUST   E SROUtEII RATOS
PIIAR:  TOTAL                     95.0        64.0        93.0 fj          105.&                    101.1
MAMl                   97.0         64.0       93. 7            106.3                    101.5
rz"          n         93.0    u     6.0       93.0             L04.1                     9b.7
SECOARY: TOAL                     11.0        26.0        32.0/ b          *1.2                      59. 
MALE                   11.0         26.0       29.0              2.3                     6U.9
Flom                   10.0         27.0       35.0               4*.5                    50.6
VOCATIOAL (C O SECONDARY)           1.6         16.7        59.Z 33           33.6                     2l.6
PUfl-TZACUER RATIO
PRUAR!                            33.0        23.0        26.0 if          30.1                      25.1
SECODARY                          13.0        13.0        14.0 WE           16.                      20.5
ADULT LIEACY IE CZ)                 61.0        66.2        76.0 e            79.5                     75.b
=R  CARS/NUSAD  MP                   7.6        16.6        1.9             6.0                      54.7
RUDIO  CV TAOUIAW my                65.4       108.4       161.1             225.6                    16I.9
TV REONWITHOUS  10?rw               16.5        4.3        119.7             107.2                    123.1
NuSPAPul C"04ALT GRURRAL
IN?ENEST') CNCOULTIOS
PEI MNUSAiD POPULATI              52.9        35.6        64.0              63.5                     96.3
CENA ANSUAL ATTINcCAPA               4.4         2.0         1. S              2.5                      Z.9
Lav VN=1
TOTAL 143LC FORCE CINOUS)        23326.0     30411.0    60365.0
FEUW   (cENT)                     17.2        20.1        23.2              23.2                     34.5
AGRICULU  (RPflCENT)              51.9        45.6        29.9              31.5                     40.7
INDOlT (PER T)                    14.5        18.3        24.6              23.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATII RATE (PRCW)
TOTAL                             32.1         31.7       31.3              32.2                     42.9
MAz                               52.7        50.3        46.9              69.3                     54.7
FMIKLE                            11.2        12.5        14.8              15.2                     31.0
ECON=C DEWEIIT RATIO                 1.4         1.4         1.4               1.4                      0.9
D3SK DIS
PERCE OF PRIVATE INCmSE
XEvCCvED 1T
IEST, 32 OF OUSEOLDL,                     ....
HIGHM  201 01 NOUSEROS            60.0        63.5        62.0 Ic
LOWS 201 OF NOUSEOLD               3.8         3.2         Z.6 ic
LOWES  64010   HOUSEHOLDS         10.8         9.0         9.4 7-r
PV  TANT GPS
ESTIAED AISOUT  POVERTY INCOM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
DIIM                                .,          ..          ..             268.2
RURAL                              ,,            .       15D.0 /d          184.0
ESTIMATED RLATIVE POVERTY INCOE
LEEL (USS PER CAPITA)
Una                                                      4 ..  65.0 Id     522.8
RUL                                 ..          ..       332.0 Td-         372.4
ESMATE  POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY lCo  LEVEL CZ)
CNR,. ..                                                       ..                                      ..
R,RAL                               .      
. OT AVAILA SL
XO APICAIBLE
NOTE S
/a  The group averaes for _ach 2nd2cator are population-aighted aritheetic -eans. Coverage of countrles inng the
Indicators depands on availablity of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'oMt Recent Estiate' between 1980 aid 1982.
/c  1975; Zd 1977; /e 1976; /f 1979; 7R& Beginnina 1973 primry and secondary eduAtion cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17
Irntead of 7-lOd nd 11-172n earlier years; tbarefore. wost recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data:
/b 1978.
JUoE. 1981



-29-.ANNEX I
-                                         ~~~~~Page 3 of 5
aEgog iJm,w W. die. - demi t og... c 0me.. weemlp Se wae "Ummlemt.. mel me.A.. St Ag-Ll .1.. a -amc to.. em mW mu, a. $cmsm.etme
.1,mUS".. mi  ". e.1m e        Aree-..    -  Ito                                _4m i.wmm m   Lm....d. -  go m .el.mec.eeee- mie. me .  e-        oF.  em -.a" m.S
Saoe   %gm   d m    F-l  1 5.em   m   '- mmit.mm    .gme ,;m.S  ---,S =11 = m             e  eeo    en   mm0  - i.44.7 .1  O-    -imcmmm ft  .ir.m     mm  w S.. 
-W.""cme -La.                         mm.R"  e.m        Ift-g  --. mem         -I,  odemedmil11 t.   1                   solcwe.o- mt g-wes...
'got Aga-                                                                          T,gv__~~~~~~~m. Iele  mbee  e.. - megeceim  16..um   t, -wo ma pmm.eeei..
oot-.    C.,d-         tt. r.Hoa ~          ~     ~ ~       mel meeS                   u..  metm ae..emegl  emem
MMW M  -_                                             Sol~~~~~~'mmml. (ci
w.mc mve~eI -m  me a--..ec.cee.m in....   mm  nh.-.                                      cmIlwlg, i. meo- -   ed.1-. eme... mcd muiclmeg lo..eL me
I. oad .J                                                     b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c. a.  muo lchjm.4.  mc mmmemt.1wgi. e.mu.. minim. mele  ..dW
euli?   emmema (AMuW-limeS ~mem  meememec. .1 ....e                    medeme ece..  L=             m .  dfcim       . eel     (me.  a.  Zeec
.mlmm i.... .me m  It.  is  g.cel.s.  mcc.l c -  hid... ml..Pm.lmfl -k . .etc  cm" m.jta   meetff s.1,. L.-m.ltl-clt    .m                   -
tOlD P.0mm  m.1ok.t)A  ,1Wo   `.a-__p  &.                                                 cde.mmer  mem.iftg AIO  MP    bel -       .mlde.., e-dmlm1
- me ci imi. l~~~~ 1150. 5910,                             so.m. W- mesof-
or tt.11 - Saw.. or .0- S.  -I.m.. le . -eMvmmIje~m.m    e..ef~~    m.   m    e
ielf.me. dlIliemeci   - .-.   -, mUf.. ..e.mblifty, .0 dio,                          melome  -me  -"-.  & m.l. c            11m mm ,     -r    a. l-.e   C.
mmeon     1C.1. sam*. -1 ."s i..... Um  t- -.M mc-.-cm  .el-
t-    2-1.          g foo"  La     got e       .e       m Xm..eei
Tog-    V.         lo'cme ear t,g           me- SlowssWI.                                    -..cee l.  amuem. .m -g l-eem.  eee..m
am..-     b  tw  memecs  F.  mem teemsd. WAR.  ehess hems. roai ecmc-l. oF.1 4m eW, a MiRa V                                 emm3-
Sw-B)e..m .st. dime   .e s cwWMl. limi..b-    wi Um --Lgo                               ,sam30 e-dr--10.40p,_wgt
-6   Seel. .  meecte  me-C' Fme,5e - -m  fe i..j.t -             m,... "                                                         *S- ~d S--&  m-cl -,. 1-'
4--ft  g. goat, V.       ee. e- cm  e.m--ceim ogoago e       -..elems-oft.%  S" 
me mmii            - e   m  a   me   "na.   a ec L     m,         e g  -              Weemi. meO.-Il.. -td.ctm    5 ll mrme. me mm
Mp..  me-  I.cc.  15   eemei                     kWiImmc mu litm -d: -%m.                         --e   e   .el  .me 1 t    m   m.femtcm    e
meSs    cf m    inem "I   me..eee    1 e          S.Fl  5.m ,.                            ime.  .ms-mc               l  m     I          ml-          ;em
lt.17.a -.           r  cete.dna            Zeum                             .mt      .,L   C.  Cl,emm.- Smeme  emmmm -4 e-
emmemm-  -   m      lImeCemm..mmml            emee cmjg    -p  me.a,,ps e-               mm.im   cmlme mc..-..m.     leemeIetct
milI.r. mlmemme two.lmm . me mg.megtm0.medmm  emclme   ..aem.. low                                              emea.  eme. s-:         ..nn.  m'.
p.mW..  .- C-1:1.icM   mmmcl  m.=    me..,aS-e--  'I  ins....W ci                           mml.      m.e*scml.
Iced .,...  *ee. mte.-   eem..e.                                                           Loo -me. -in. 5..- t SIgoo -          -U-mc.'.:.am ?--      s.d _  Wc olm
m.m m. ~   lmmteeetm   tm.- Ce.&m  cm- Uine .  cc,lmm.lmmmml C m.                 to  owmmm   mmmmclc.  .m..Icclm OMM   IIin. c..me-..-
m.mlcmm  m.  .ec... Moe..    ~edmmf  (55-C ,cmm. cemecem                                            .  ...VW50 -  WTV71.                     -   .dg  
e.g.acmsA-.W -eot . tdga, me                             L mg  Lms                   Am. tooco, .   me.c rogm ~  m.ma m di.. mlmmee. mew... O me
mm..tm.. emmb mm -fmt.mcm   - i. ..: -          gcme mc.-.  l emmm   fm-ctimmnMecspuILc-..i -s
t   emLmem Sw M  .4-Ur . sm--te.  e aID-a1.                                              mcim. kmc....W.. c. eAmme m.-cmel - cit  mce.i  ..le                mc. mcdl
alsmL.s.CmeSe   um.h-  ..-wd                       m..mmmm  .m.mmememS &Lgoo                                             me .m.me ci" Memmieec1 - mSeAiwe        d-
..mmlccdmbe efise. -O      .! me  P   S-e                                            ce-Lula .    . d.mm1' If 1.  ewP- .., me mm yin..  o.mecmt          me
p.f "alb-o.   AC- sees, metW mm ,.W    e. meLtemi utm-em-m.
met                         -      .  .m  em..mmImd-e                                  eee.m.        e.~m em             ml - t mmemm "-m mccie              -
v-U-ft   Wf-   f- mmpW e.S. IL cm --        .d  .ttL  m.                         LA Mmc      ...mIspc   memg.ee   .W.emee.f
Soo-..me    .ti  -f     w 9mtem.m        .memsf.                           e..              ------imcm    m     c el- w     e  .-1e
Woo,Lmmme.-e.m mml1mc.i -                           S.,m t  i   e...mmI   el  ef te _1                           cm.Log   e-im f.m etmeog   .mem. 
f-     .eme.em.i.ee-      mmcme .`-.ece  'mel mimme                                    aw-liesIC...e.m r               emm S e.  m.-: low. cm  -A IqmcS--
ow-l-go [_Sow or .0-)  "I.I.  W   -L- -ft-                            eCet.meld ..tm.  m.   r- ,em. Cmss.ce1e....    dmm-tm mfem  me
imet_ oo  -   -.    - mm   ....c em...e'. smemp        m.-mm.e Am.e                                                       ,g~emet-.loo mem... 10
bWem  mlSo-elii  --W           me.oo  mmcme.t.. c .Me-. mw It. -t
emmiie-   fefe.-m   e   ine.c                            C..."  ml                            Wi       Ws l.W-dm   g    -.me.S           e.    e..   c3i5mm
ceeir-.-mc,    m   .Me  ee      -p    me   Sec .         17 ll , f-em                    ___           or`_`______'___-_._________r__              q
mmtm m,W mmemW,m-ldtl.  -waS e meme.mi F cm-mm. em emme.                                 Z.ms.ml       emsm 109  o .m. y%_     mem-mee emISO .   cm... mc.i-
""M. -1 O.O. 1. -.0- Mgt  -J."  09-1 low. tow'.                 -ft-t-C wg-          .     l.gS-gg  . ago P"t-mn.. e.m "   inl cm
.inIFe.me mm  m.  mel.ip   mume. .m.me   me-w     me-- cmW.-, .                     maemtl. mc    e  ecmmLeme   f   e..15. ei, LII.g,Id
dcmc.                                                                              'mmmtlowcmtm lee. i lim,mmgtt-om ml.ogl.Wm  fnIc-    0tc   c,.~   O
-.P&,    c  MLmm W mm                                                                                                                     p-,mmgomm,  cmmmi..cse,mcmc.~ s  meec    L.m    mi  ce.ft.m
di.   de.ltcbl   eme Fc Imemem P-e." sor   &ee.mea eemcme  mc.                             mm.SeS   eEs -.inm                        .  e5        pmt5mmms
.... 6-1  -  Iem  mego  now,m   mes   -       go I.itc.tC-e     mess..                     mc  mcue  efm.m.                 mmm
Mrm   semtiee -1-I          mess me me,m-Ls.elc    .   (cm.....ZFF   R                                                 c. S%.m.m-Id ft     i. -l me m me . 
cele.?meme. ewdVW   wl. 216..t   9Mcmc.meec SIMem.e             mem.e..illIMM                       ect   liiMW        (im.e cMi mt-a).
Child    ctd  5ce.lt semi-s, memot- .logact-
mm.  el..wet  ef  m-ot. f..m    -  ml [gmmmc g... [wt                            o-o melec          ie.Me -emet 11.1 mm. m  t. w)-d emmlm -ft  -t
eim-e   .   l  w.e        csmeS  m.                    sitt .                        meemle
maiweMe.050  mme.0  cm. ImemAt. me 6-.t me i.m-   -wo.1m e
p.1m  pieet. .  wetO e,m   cet 14" melil ,mee awl
meimi    e  .'   .mmr.0                 mec  mc ecst   e  iemeIh0(I-S.tmin.cm e"cp..,ememue i   .mm, met.m
z1mtelm -el cmc  emmfmm    eL.pmmm        mms                                          mlmmmece.  illlm.m*l  ae.
-a.                                                                                        .gmmm,og g  digole e.OL.
Sgc 4s  me. im.tmel (cc. tMItIc met.g e   50   esmgdm..mme odm.,gmetem   slPm  fme    e.
yetcmm  e.-M.lem    -ctem'    mcl by    we!  timec  ml 'W e.  m.- -a
peIWm    A..1m   m   mSemmoto.  me,m..mtem             e  m



30 -
Al=9 I
e~~~~                        ~ D
puplatlan:      126.8 milln   (1932)
1sr Por Capita: USS2.Z40 D 192)
Inicator                                                          Averat eeg * Ai Inciase (1)               Shar of CDP at Ibrhl t Wrie. (2)
(1ii   Ss C. reat)                 (at   ct  970 Prles)                           (st Cureut Priec)
I8                  19-70    1;70-7t   1913-40    1961-38             1970       1975      1963 b7
Hatial Accofnts
Gre. Domestic Product /a                        209.801               7.7        10.6       8.9        1.9           100.0      100.0     100.0
&griculturm                                    21.1U                 1.9       5.7        4.7        2.2            10.2       10.9      10.1
Instvry                                        77.*4L               9.2       11.1        7.6        1.9            35.8      37.2       36.9
Services                                      ILI.195               3.0       10.7        6.8        1.e            34.0       31.9      s3.0
consumion                                       188.632               7.7        9.8        5.7        0.8            77.3       71.9      50.3
Gr.. Investmet                                   37.133               9.4       14.8        5.2       -0.4            22.7       32.1      17.7
Eaports of Cod and MS                            2328                  8.2      11.2        7.3       11.8             8.7       7.4       11.3
Loprc of Goods and 11S                           19.59               14.5       17.2        2.8        1.2             7.2      11.4        9.3
Cr0s Do-ascic Savings                            41189               7.9        12.9       6.1        2.7            22.2      23.1       19.7
Amon"tAverg denAa_ luce,.. (S)                               Coapositi. of vIbchadis  Trade (C)
(Millon US$ tbrrm)        _(at C tat 1970 Prica)                          (at Currnt      t)
1993     -         1970-75        1973-40     1961-38               3970        1973       193
Herd,andie  Trad
brcandilse Rxporct                              21.899              11.1           7.7           12.4                 I00.0       100.0     100.0
Pria-r' cl                                    lJ ,603             8.3            1.1            8.1                  76.7       62.7       48.4
han;.:tZre  d/                                11.296             28.2           18.2           19.5                  22.5       34.8       51.6
hrchadiae Iiorts                                153.29              14.8          -3.3           -0.6                 100.0      100.0      100.0
Food cereals)                                    98              -6.7           17.5           -1.3                  4.5         3.0        8.3
P-tro em                                       6.179              7.6            8.3           4.7                   11.2       25.4       53.0
lachiaey and Equipmaen I/                      2.505              15.2          -7.5           -0.3                  36.2       322    -  16.2
Othat                                          3.777             2B.4           -1.9            1.3                 48.1        39.4       24.5
1973         1978          1977          1978         1979          190          1961        1932      1983
Pris and Term of Trad
GMP Deflator (1970 - 100)             305.1         444.3        632.7         892.5       1399.4        2.728.6     5.696.8   11.108.8   28,272.4
fEcbae Rare (Cr51053)                   8.1          10.6         14.1          t8.1          26.9          52.7        93.1      180.0       577.1
aort Price lede (1970 - 100)         176.0         192.0       2z6.0         z28.0          268.0         290.0      252.0       225.1       191.7
I-mpt Pie Lade (1970 - 100)           24250        255.0         236.0         317.0         339.0        431.0       474.0       52.         493.5
Tarm of Trade lde  (1970 - 100)        72.0          75.0          79.0         72.0         68.0           87.0       53.0        43.1        36.3
(at Currant Cedro Prima)
1970          19/ 197                        1930 1      1931!  192 
Public Fnance (Cemtral Covernmet)
Current lavanu                                                            16.6           19.8            20.8            20.1        18.9    21.2
Current UpwadItua                                                         14.4           15.8            17.6            19.8        20.2    25.4
Surplus- (*) or deiirt (-)                                                 2.2            4.0             3.2             0.3        -1.4    -4.2
Capital Expendifur                                                         2.6            3.6             3.7            4.1          3.5      3.4
FinaWAg (VAst)                                                             0.4           -0.2             0.5             3.9         4.9      7.6
~1
1985-70         1970-75          1976-80             1961-66
Otber Indicators
OGP Growth Rate Z)                                                        7.7             10.7              6.S                 1.8
CNP per Capita Growth Rate (7)                                            4.6              7.7              4.0               -0.6
fiwrr coGattn Groewth Race CZ)                                            7.2              8.7              6.8
ICOI                                                                      2.9              2.2              4.3                13.0
giLa S - Rate ft                                                         20.5             27.9              7.8               33.7
loport UlauicIty  f/                                                      2.2              1.6             -0.1                 0.6
m earkct prlCM; Converted at vebrag  exhang  rete.
hi  Eattet.
it  Includes codffe (beams ant  soluble). otbhr agrcultwral products. and minerals.
I   Includes infactand and ael-procaeaad product.
1S  Ioelude  traoportsio  maeilo..
/  7he 191-8 proJecto  ame calculated uming the Isant squares method.
ji   1980-1962 Inclue Severamnt expenditures effected cbrough the sntary - edger a am  mdnor gormn_nt funds. _ well as tranfera n, the
fedoral e rpris.
Source: Caojuatura Etroaolca. FM: lenco Central do Urazil; 8ral Standard Ibdel (World ank).                                       Dacemr 20. 1964



- 35 -
0W F~ Cq3I1t  1552.230 (1al
iss M  gr             e        Iwo        Io          U
1973       197         197         197         37         530         10U0; 162                  16          591         5963        193
5.3 ..ot. .5 _..6. .*31 ...So.                      4.703       4.013      -3.O3       -G.*"     -10.539    -52.3        -11.13         -  .4o50     *0.;fl      -2.035      4*533      -3.100
C    .V    a.0_.                                  s,%D       l0.t23      12.120      M2."        153.24      0.132      23.32           20.156     23.3W       2 .3t1       3.331    34.332
Im_r. .0 c_.                                    -12.231     -53.313    -u2.023    -13.6        -u.0e3      -n2         -mm            -e9.397    -13.33       -1.337    -17.013   -20.372
5.3 (r3~ 1a_                                     -1.733      -2.130      -2.33       -337       -4.63l      -6.321      .9.30           52.30     -10.352     -12.330    -13.713   -13.237
(.1 wh01. .t 1.t-. .t p.     3 3               (-1.46)   C-1.610)   (-2.103)   (-290 )         -4-3153    (..311)   (-9.179)        (-13.03W   (- 9.5)   C- 9.901 M   (-.1109) (-u.15)
5.1 m-(..3.,   <                                 -5.32       -1.373      -1.378     -3.86       -2.27       -3.10       -Z.G7          -2.50       -2J3        -2.479      -3.2,     -4.133
0.1 '         ~t                                        2           1           -         75          1s          ,          19               _           _                                 _
C..,,..5 .,.>I 3dz .                   -9790        *4.037      43.W7       3.03s    -50.021     -12.393     -30.97          -.w0        -3.171      -2.33       -'.*30    -5.30
Kr    71-L. L0-t0t J                                  32          939         60        1.071      1.411       5.21.0    1.36               99          657         la0         7M        o2
4T 1.- .      )                                      '.530       . 342   5 .330        50.5 s        .27       3.S.0 * .46  if            3.43        2.7         6.37        3.5        S.35
DO.b......_                                      (.1142)    CONGO)    (9.2n2)   (15.143)   (15m) (n13.05)   (17.329)                  (3.177 )     (7.331)   (17.073)   (15399)   (11D.362
55lo3l_                                         (-2.532)      -2.3      t-    D 332)   1333    (-3.331e) (              -7.6)          4-7.33    (-3.333)   (-8.)  (-10.5333  (-3.037n
r..tU_ .           .  (.                             -190        -24         -267       -337        -31          41u        -70            -2                                -1.000    -1.400
tW3     Wft0 l .. . 1. 1                              no1,1                -5.32,       -333         Gm        4.03        1.313          4.511       a.573      -1.4t2       1.*49         -
a-I0    19                                               "a._  (_. r)  9  -5.192  -33   -4.Z2        3.213       3.32         -up           4.011          20      -1.60       -t.073    -3.197
i ..t1.  5._              !&.54                                               7.253 l1.665           9.69        3.913       7 .00          3.490       2.10 ).30               6.5       9.52
9515_ ...0001.( a                                       4tW  Si t.3             7.1        10.3        3.3         3.3         4.5             2.2        2.2         3.7         4.4       4.1
ALU
K.U.-I WM                                                                                                                       75.580~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3045
595        573         53          1936        503        196J si0 1605              2962        196 y
M1l ft13bt  .t__3ft 00 41*b_w                      2293         3.63 32.301 4..33                 51.332      35G.6       t'.052         7.0 2we      n60
r.b1  _.00    11.y _                              11.703     11.33       21.5        30.M 3     35.32       38.2"  * 33M.              67.36       3.06
0fl1.11                                          I 3.99     4.431       4.717       5.41        .89        6.*1.       7.233          6.17A      30.0
10                                             C3."93      C1.W173     (1.41)    (1.4O2)    (.2m)    (3.09)    (2.319)               (2.723      (3ass
5.,3                                           (2.600)    (5.213)    (1.304)    03*l9         (4.062)    t4.*37)    (3.9n3)           M )        (6.0033
8r5..t. c...                                    9.737     1 8.J       13.676     23.60      239.39       25.6        30.370          9.315 n5.01!0
r0.1.. _      _          9,.92                               15.13       15.005      13.LS2      13.83      53.0        59.7 3         23.01       23.352
-tdl=          d6t (3311  .10)                       3.'79      3.420       *. 11      50.29      32.4        14.001      14*99 .5.27                U3.91
1-              t            dlAt LS                 3.91 .1*    .0         9.*02     u1 "         117        10.0n5        .0e           32.239      7.330
z   M  9L3t111  s t 3 1d                           3.Ua       3.921       *.4=22    1*.515       9.132       0.33        S.19           ?.9I$       7.0
0ffs.1.1 .5...3 -..3... 428                                   405         IGO        390         443         43           23            37        .I502
60                                                am3         173         2o         V7s         302         33)         1              *23      15.20
5t5.   11.l.t,31                  t19                         113          92         130        23          195         1              213         216
0.t5.  _*                                          ".995    3*.3        *.3         9.21        .197       7rim2       6.19           *.31        4.57t
r t..t.m.a.....s..6                                3.194      3.539       3.135       1.038       2.273      3.192       301             *.83         235
7.1.1 6901t -350500  50e                              39        3*.322      3.342       *.22       11.*47     13.56       14.69          53.L29      11.20
*-.  (.)                                         C1.071)    (1.423)    (1.6313    (2.4371    (3.5%3)    (5.412)    (7to7  5                  )      7.372
;t -  _   o  E:ft M   . . GWS                          42.0        30.7        42            .3                   60.0          .            75 G  .I    47.3
P.yt.           Gm 7                                    2.9         2.3         2.0        3.7         4.3         *.3         .4             3.3         3.0
. Dt                 . rp. . r9             CZ)           8.7         1.3         3.3        9.9         13.2       1I.         1.2            12.7        55.3
1.?        7.9         6.0        7.5 e.3                 9.1         V.            30.9        50
433500  933t7e .0      _10     I.                          9.        15.3        10.0        50.         11.3        9.          9.7           10.9         9.3
005111..1 9...,...                                     10.4       13.3        53.1       14.5        14.0 I9                 13.8           1m.7        52.
.9-        .                                             0           3          .7        9.3        1152         6.7         6.9           50.2         a.3
--   _ T0                                               4.7         3.3        4.1                     23                      3L3            3.9         4.3
*00 *ll__C-1 t.o            3.   dtk.0        (t)       .                      32         1..     I    .J               2. L                 3.9        13.3
41m 6bt _.. ml1Wu l d.1t ..., (2)                       Z.5         31_         3.7        2_.         2.2         z.l         3.2            2.5         4.0
o;c tr etm                                                              t t   _   r           1"2
ft-ntt, __~_  .1  P6  2                                                    1 n
6t-t39.  53   _  3.  3 13  5-
10095114 l 9 43t1 _. 10 7* _)
if0109 1     93*3.93c 00 3601  33300  335. 10.00.
b/     .._ ..- .f-  , 595 3. -       1_0*d 1. 9. e-f3         --I-..
LI  1w3101. 0059.93  3111..
Z_."".a 7970 1  33.33    a353-330                                    a."..
8/ 3..69 ..2.- . t                                          eo .
f     / 83.11.1.3.    r 5131933139       _s   _ P313911 .0-03.30  _le. 1.93.
D ~~~~P--t  ----                                 &.L  L- tbr__ __Btt
y .321. *  90 .ly.
!w  u1 .5 0       %61  (5         k)._
569^3.t  2.   (.00. 69 fr3 t 3. r..5 5b. 0.11. 591s3.6  (DM: TM-



- 32 -
ANNEXfl
Pag. I of 3
mm sTws OF BAC GROUP OPERATIONS Ia BRZI
A. SllAt STATEWM  OF WA?
(As of Septer 30, 1984)
mout laess tUdigs-
Ioan 1 Year             Borrower                  PuanoselItlions bursed
CUSS Kiliow.)
Sixty-five loam fully disbursed                                    2,619.4
1075     1975 Brazil                           Roads                  110.0       6.9
1151     1975 Companhia Siderurgica Nacioal  Industry                 95.0        1.7
1152     1975 Compahuia Siderurgica Paulsta  Industry                 60.0       12.3
1195     1976  Brazil                          Rural Development      12.0        2.3
1207-5   1976 Brazil                           Feeder Roads           55.0        2.7
1317     1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry          83.0       27.0
1362     1977  State of Mnms Gerais            wural Development      42.0        2.2
1406     1977  Petrobras FertilIzates          Fertilizer             52.0          .5
1411     1977  Fertilizantes Vale do Rio       Fertilizer             55.0         .7
Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
1452     1977 Brazil                           Education              32.0       12.6
1488     1977  Brazil                          Rural Development      11.0        3.0
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Sewerage              110.0       57.6
1537     1978  Brazll                          Rural Development      24.0       14.8
1538     1978 ELETROBRAS                       Pbwer                 130.0       22.7
1557     1978  Brazil                          Roads                 114.0       27.7
1562     1978  COPESUL                         Petrocbemicals         85.0         .9
1568     1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension      100.0       26.1
1589     1978  Brazil                          Rural DevelopmEnt      37.0       18.0
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Sites and Services     93.0       11.7
1656     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water and Sewerage    100.0       22.3
1714     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development      26.0       18.5
1720     1979 Brazil                           Urban Development      70.0       29.4
1721     1979  COPEL                           Power                 109.0       31.4
1728     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development      40.0       24.9
1729     1979 Brazil                           Irrigation             28.0        7.3
1730-5   1979  Brazil                          Roads                 110.0       33.8
1822     1980  Brazil/BIDE                     Pollution Control      58.0       56.8
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply          130.0       31.3
1824     1980  CKEE                            Power                 114.0       73.2
1839     1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport       159.0       53.0
18 3     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply          139.0       42.4
1867     1980  Brazil                          Education              32.0       23.4
1877     1980  State cf Minas Gerais           Rural Development      63.0       52.8
1895     1980 EERDSUL                          Power                 125.0       92.6
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development      56.0       30.2
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                  54.0       44.8



-33 -
A1 II
Pap 2 of 3
A. S3AYSADI  iLM (Cbtma)
(A of s.ptrer 30, 1984)
Amut la"s   Uhdiu-
I y Year                DorruMIL                    PanceLlations  liisd
(US$ lUlc )
1965     1981  fl                              Urban Tmport            90.0       63.4
1970     1981  1suo Nacional da Iabitacao      Water Supply           180.0      120.9
1989     1981  Brazil                          Alecobl DseDt .0                  139.2
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture            29.0        19.0
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agrilature             60.0       27.2
2060     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture            67.0       39.5
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                 13.0        6.9
2062     1982  Brazil                           Hlguays               240.0       88.5
2116     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4        18.0
2138     1982  EULETRDEiS                       lb,er                 182.7      152.9
2163     1982  Brazll                           Agriculture            26.4        21.2
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Developmne      123.9       107.4
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Developnent      42.7       34.9
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development       8.9        6.8
21%      1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore              304.5       148.8
2224     1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads          154.0       137.7
2225     1982  EBNOS                            Development banidrng  220.0        50.3
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Hsbitacao      Water Supply          302.3      251.8
2268     1983  Brazil                           Agro-Industries       400.0      374.0
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Developient      67.8       61.8
2343     1983  Brazil                           Urbsn Developent       52.7       48.7
2347     1983  Brazil                           Export Developuot    3i2.0        85.8
2348     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture           303.0        10.0
2353     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture            65.2       61.0
1729-1   1983  Brazil                          Agriculture              7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983  BraziL                           Agriculture            22.8       22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                 250.6      227.9
2365     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                 222.8      202.0
2366     1983  Brazil                           Education              20.0       19.9
2412/1   1984  Brazil                           Education              40.0       40.0
24146    1984 Brazil                            Federal HighImy       210.0      210.0
21.47Tr  1984  State of Sao Paulo               Health                 55.5       55.5
2448Wr   1984  State of Sao Paulo               Bealth Studies          2.0        2.0
Total                                                9,725.3 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bauik                1,SB8.2
Total nw  outstandirg                                8,137.1
Amount sold                             45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8             0.0
Total am held by Bank                                8,137.1
Total undisbursed                                               3,782.9
/1 Not yet effective.
No. IDA credits buve been made to Brazil.
Note: The status -' the projects listed In Part A is described in a separate report
On all Bank/IDA financed projects In euncUtion, which iS updated twice yearly
and clrculated to the Executive Directors On April 30 and October 31.



-34-.
a  _ewc1_X_X.)~~~~~~twc1
a.   NN   W DC             Con at %M    31. alb)
"moad                                                                                                                   1Wm  t inmn
r                                    obligor ?                                tpd aInW
1I          Y         m ad ^1  CI. as                                       UaI  I_e                           2.0D      -       2.10
am                        . 9. A. 00A1m * Pipe                              PApadIFAr                          L7D       -       L/
193                D. L. L F1,  do %WIL. 6. A.                                   .i_ Imo                        .O3      -       O.A
332                Uprndd do ,1. S. A. - tm a Gdo                             o_ 2.S                                     -       2AS
193           0_ N2I de Cm                     tIM, S. L.                                                      1. t      -       1.20
193                amOo    a1r. SL A.                                       PP                                 4.00      -       400
19i319W112         Am VlIm, S. A.                                           Swd                                6        1.       9*3
lfuign            ft    a Cd* 1m _   1d_. S. A.                             b  ad  wr                          3.7;     3.41    7.9
1967/2             Uudmul. S. s. - 1a_*utda a ob     do ktu       _                                            6 L22    3m      11.25
1990               Ibkasidm 1b S.SA.                                        Metradm1                           13       2II      .3
1970               baldkm. S. A. 1nkatna .  dD                             %ftaomb                           S0       2.3      61
19i1                dm  L A.    ta a *. Odo                                 b oiadme                           4.60     1.44    h04
1971              6t. o    - a      a- ds Jawkm do Ul                       MPAP                               4_9       -      4o
17/97119            dpa    do aw      d    a do-                                                             16 *6.14   4.70   171s
D973/74f7/Sv       aea U*iw   de    b    -                                     -a sD  .                       76.7     12.V    924
1973       r        1c   -t MUP     F- - PAC,'                         s0M1                                    100       -       10O
1973/iSWl.         sma de ab1nm_ do                NlEmum  - O5=. S. A.  N1 Niq  A Bif                        8SDJ6     6.74   93.74
17                 1r _aatm YIluIm. S. A. Lam. ad ldma I qdmu                                                  6.00      -       LO0
im                 PbMI  do U1ddo Thbzp. S. A.                              Tatum                             31.00      -     31.00
1975179      q       _M    0_ I  1a11td   ui.                        l       mdm US                            LN       1.3      7.D
Wa73 15. LA.                                                                ftbuodh                           10 MOD     -      m0
o76                 Uaa 0       a - _     a1 MM 1iR. 5 A.                   km11_                              6h4      LO     7.45
i7/134             T.cow S. A. -          _91   adm     do 3D- di                                              a.m       -      1.230
197                - S. A. Pt-    itabuicm                                  km ad Aliadmsnt                   2.00       -      24.00
1977               3       Rl M  do Ne SL A.                               IUVbI                              1M0D       -      15.00
1976               Mescal 9    mags S. A.                                   km ad St                           7.0      3.00   10.00
MP9               Votw do kma  *Mm a Vaim. .L A.                            It  Vddd_                         6OAD      S.D   G127
1ism               Ow  do Uln S. A. - N11w                                  Uldy do    cu                      2.00      -      2.00
1590                    . do *    S/A - ww_ -  1AaI. 1dmtsa
a odo  do aLgu                                        bIhwol                             3.50      1.00    4.S0
1i9                VWw  dl&mutdd ds Ms S-LA  - VM                           km ad _.1                          SW.0      -        0S-O
1911               PM1 - a    u ts1a--1 do 1bhigp.a-          *hadmla ad Ul_idmls                             150       2.00   m17.0
19                 D1inz1a 0mg!. S. A.              t-mIa ad _.eolab                                            -       0.25    0.25
19                 BSm 1a  *da      m a Mui   S/A              Ylhfll                                         310       4.00   41.00
1N                 bhimal ftaism                                             od1. ad km_    z  1 _            43.OD     5.D0   46.00
1961               kuw                                                      "bNW WA   Q     ists                -       1.10    1.D0
is1         Q        a_ w   11e9   do 4 o e        - QU                     raw ad Fad Soigu5.10                        3.0      6.10
1961       |        1Mmio                                                   a 1ka ad 90m_m                    4.        4.00    mm.00
1961               aeom cm                                                    amd s2           I1wdla         40.00     5.00   4S.0
134                113mk  S. A.                                             Pbw Coul I-                      30.00     OA5   3045
199               Ak    fZiWdtC.                                            Ted ad Ule                        13.00     -       13o00
3590            Qd- do   _ (W                                               FAI 0I                            6.10     -        6.10
1990               55m- !". do          S-&                                 pap 4 1Fwr ft5LO       Z          mm        17    63.19
134                Sa SJ.S                                                      ad Fad mul   1                 3.0      2.D      SD
199N               O7CD                          *                              ad ommwfi  a  lmds            3500      -       3100
L36           la A1mo2_ldm   gain                                           Cadlm    ad F_tndWmk              20.0      A=    2a.
< _ad       a                                                                92St6     9.67 1.0199
Irn awadism. %              nm        ad .. Seim                                  647.W     1IS13   62.
0T_a   s         N  Rd by-C                                                       276m79    76.S   3D.33
~d.  oabs                                                                    136.55    13.49   110.01
October 20. 1964



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable -if Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project        8 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:    BNDES
r               Cc) First presentation to the Bank :   September 1983
(d)  First mission to review project:    September 1983
(e)  Departure of appraisal-mission       May 20, 1984
(f)  Completion of negotiations           December 15, 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness  :   April, 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
Ca)  BNDES to implement a Plan of Action for assisting the SDBs to
strengthen their operational procedures and financial management
and performance; such Action Plan to provide for extending the
capability and procedures of SDBs for doing economic evaluation
of the larger projects they finance (para. 66);
Cb) BNDES to complete, over the period starting April 1, 1985 and
ending September 30, 1986, the introduction of cost benefit
analysis into its project selection and evaluation procedures
(paras. 67 and 68);
(c) until a cost-benefit analysis is included in BNDES directly
financed industrial subprojects submitted for Bank financing,
only subprojects for firms which exported at least 10% of their
production in each of the preceding three years would be
authorized. The Bank would limit its approvals for disbursement
to subloans totalling not more than US$50.0 million for BNDES
directly financed industrial projects ar_ US$100.0 million for
SME subprojects until BNDES has established satisfactory
arrangements for the introduction of economic analysis in
accordance with a Project Evaluation Plan satisfactory to the
Bank (paras. 68, 69);
(d) interest rates to be reviewed periodically between BNDES and the
Bank and to be revised in order to maintain a reasonable
relationship between BNDES' rates and market rates in Brazil
(para. 74);



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) commitments and disbursements of loan could be suspended if
interest on subloans fail to be positive in relation to the
prevailing inflation rate in Brazil (para. 78); and
(f) The Bank may suspend authorizations or approvals of subloans if
BNDES fails to carry out the Project Evaluation Plan in Lers
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 69).
Section IV - Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  Execution of satisfactory arrangements between BNDES and the
Federal Republic of Brazil for transferring the Bank resources to
BNDES; and
(b) approval by BZbDES' Board of Directors of the detailed Project
Evaluation Plan for introducing economic analysis into BNDES'
project analysis procedures.



| . {:(VENEZUE -A
|~~~~                     ~    ~~~ A- t/  t    BooVVista
-Monous                                          J
F ' ? ^. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R    A                                      M:/IARA
R E E ~~~~~~~~Velho
:Y;<  a   .         -x              _-  -  ^.  5   "  5       j  ~~~~~G O I A S 
\,:-- >; -~~~~~~~~~~~~ \         -gJ ~~~~~~~Cuasbi                            Di.strict
X  -  (     ~~~B G  L I V-1s A   - .-:       >           ^/       Giii
|    X         r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- t'  !-'  tAo-sos(  \" t   N A S
~~ ~ ~ t    \.            {    X - - .~~~ t       Campo Grane c    --._ 
-2(     r-~-j                                                      -3CL          .
t          / CAO ~PAULO 
xCH I LE ?   -P         A       R              -3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Sao Paulo 
t ( r~~~~~~~~~~~ A R A NA -_
<-t~~~ sRZz i L                   A R G E N -T Jl-*                             <    
CA                 . :;s axk"4 fo toe--,
Ah>CA~~~~od" -f of Wm nbw ama*           -0-.-:                Porto AlegreP
. "9 : :--- - 01___ .s02 ' a2t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILO METEOO 0 
k~~~~~~~~O _t _,  d no                               ,   ---= VW



IBRD-15685 R
AUG= IM3
,,]_WM
_A  AMAPA
_--''A1~ ~ ~              /-                                                                          0- 
Bdem   ~~SoLuis                  *otlz
-11oS       ;. 7 J
A ?R  A               _ MARANHAO    -                    ,
* ./J \iTeesio-CEARA  /RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
'                        '  i               ,-_ ~~~~~~~~~~~)                    N a,t oi_
N                                 <                                             R .  ,  PARAIBA  *Jo6oPeum
- .-              P - IA  U
\~~~~~~~~-                                    ru.  J -   (B  HIA_ Ei P
__t                       A /CRSO    / M   1:A s       5ERNAORScife
T_                              , SAO  PAULO            2rLAGOAS
S                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERGIPE
*ic5    - . -  10CEIANEIR
^N;~~~~ A^ CAT                        I  A  
Cuioba
BRASILIA[.4,
/                                                 NtoGoienrata
C E                    MIN AS  GE RA I St
CompoGrondeyV--.IES RTSA O
*  -~    ~ --~              *BeIo    /ESPIRITO SANT
Horizonte,.-
,~SAG  PAULO:                                                                 2V--
R.~--IO DE JANEIRO
*            Rio de Janeiro
Curmrboe
_SNTA C-ATAPINA
,FlorianOpoibis                       B A       I
,,C) GRANDE DO SULe-,                    Q~~~~~ National capital
Porto Alegre0                                     *    State icapitabs
KILrAiETERS 0 100 200 300 400 5W  __  - State boundaries
MILES 0    160o  260  300        - inernational boundaries
rIvSWS
5?'~~~~~~~0                                             0






