Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF096990 
 
Danish Trust Fund  
Project Agreement 
 
(Emergency Municipal Service Rehabilitation II Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Danish Trust Fund for ESMRP II) 
 
and 
 
THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND LENDING FUND 
 
Dated June 10, 2010 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF096990 
 
DANISH TRUST FUND GRANT PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 2010, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World Bank”), acting as administrator of the Trust 
Fund provided by the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark (“Donor”) for the Second 
Emergency Municipal Service Rehabilitation Project and the MUNICIPAL 
DEVELOPMENT AND LENDING FUND established pursuant to the PLO’s Decree of 
the Council of Ministers No. 05/34/mim.waw.alf.qaf of 2005 (the “Project Implementing 
Entity”) (the “Project Agreement”) in connection with the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
of same date between the Palestine Liberation Organization (for the benefit of the 
Palestinian Authority) (the “Recipient”) and the Association (the “Grant Agreement”).  
The World Bank and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Grant Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Grant Agreement or the 
Standard Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the World Bank and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
3.01 
This Project Agreement becomes effective upon effectiveness of the Grant 
Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
The Project Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate 
on the date on which the Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with the 
provisions of its terms and the Standard Conditions. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE IV - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is the Executive Director of 
the Municipal Development and Lending Fund. 
 
4.02. 
The World Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Municipal Development and Lending Fund (MDLF) 
 
Rashmawi Building, Al-Yasmin St. 
 
Al-Bireh, West Bank 
 
Telephone: 
 
 
    Facsimile: 
 
972-2-296-6610 
    972-2-295-0685 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at the West Bank, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
/s/ Mariam J. Sherman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND LENDING FUND 
 
/s/ Khaled Qawasmi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Project Manuals and Plans 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project will be carried out 
in accordance with this Agreement, the On-Granting Agreement, the Project Operational 
Manual, the Disbursement Plan, the Subsidiary Agreement, the Consultant Report and the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: (i) not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal 
or waive any provision of this Agreement, the On-Granting Agreement, the Project 
Operational Manual, the Disbursement Plan, the Consultant Report and the 
Environmental Management Plan without prior approval of the World Bank;  (ii) take all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services, and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that selection of municipalities and 
beneficiaries under this Project and the implementation of the Project (as described in 
Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement), including all sub-projects, are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual, the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines and other terms and conditions agreed with the World Bank. 
 
B. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out and 
implemented in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Environmental 
Management Plan. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that no action is taken which shall 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of any activities required under the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section II
.
Financial Management, Project Monitoring, Reporting, and 
Evaluation
A.
 
Financial Management and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that a financial management 
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its Financial Statements for  
the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard 
Conditions.  Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited Financial Statements for each 
such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period.
 
B. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of 
the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the World Bank. 
Each Project Report shall cover the period of each calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall prepare the Completion Report in 
accordance with the provisions of the Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The 
Completion Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date. 
 
Section III
.
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 
to the Grant Agreement.
 
