Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF094522 GZ 
 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation-II 
Project) 
 
between 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
Dated July 14, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF094522 GZ 
 
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 2009, between the PALESTINE LIBERATION 
ORGANIZATION 
(the “Recipient”) (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “World Bank”), acting as 
administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (the “Administrator”), 
established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as amended by 
Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and Resolution No. 96-11 and IDA 96-7, and as 
further amended by Resolution No. 99-3 and IDA 99-2 and Resolution No. 03-193 and 
IDA 03-208, of the Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and the International Development Association (the “Trust Fund”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association has 
resolved, on June 4, 2008, to, 
inter alia,
 replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of fifty-
five million dollars ($55,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (“Gaza”) and the West Bank (the “West 
Bank”), which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(B) 
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, among other 
things
,
sets out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank 
(the “Interim Agreement”); 
 
(C) 
Section 5(b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases described 
thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority; and 
 
(D) 
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Recipient, has requested the 
World Bank to provide additional financing for activities related to the Original Project 
(as defined in Appendix I to this Agreement) which are described in Schedule 1 to this 
Grant Agreement (the “Project”); and the Project will be carried in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement between the 
World Bank and the Municipal Development and Lending Fund (the “Project 
Implementing Entity”); 
 
WHEREAS the World Bank has agreed, on the basis, among other things
,
of
the 
foregoing to extend the Grant to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Grant 
Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
The Recipient and the Administrator hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008
 (“Standard Conditions”) including the modifications 
set out in Appendix-II to this Agreement, constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
 
1.03. 
All provisions of the Original Trust Fund Grant Agreement remain in full force 
and effect. 
 
ARTICLE II - THE PROJECT 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  To this end, the Recipient shall cause the 
Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions and the Project 
Agreement. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - THE GRANT 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to three 
million United States Dollars ($3,000,000) (“Grant”) to assist in financing the 
Project. 
 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - ADDITIONAL REMEDIES 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02(i) of the 
Standard Conditions consist of the following:   
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
Performance Failure with respect to the Project Agreement.  
The Project 
Implementing Entity has failed to perform any obligation under the 
Project Agreement.  
 
(b) 
Ineligibility of the Project Implementing Entity. 
IBRD or IDA has 
declared the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to
 
receive proceeds 
of any financing made by the IBRD or IDA or otherwise to participate in 
the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in 
part by IBRD or IDA, as a result of a determination by IBRD or IDA that 
the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of any financing made by IBRD or IDA. 
 
(c) 
Extraordinary Situation. 
As a result of events which have occurred after 
the date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which 
makes it improbable that the Project Implementing Entity will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.   
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified 
below have been satisfied. 
 
(a) 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Agreement on behalf of the Project Implementing Entity 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and 
corporate action. 
 
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(c) 
The Project Operational Manual has been updated and adopted by the 
Recipient, in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank.  
 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01(a), there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World 
Bank of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, 
a
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the 
Recipient, showing the following matters:  
 
(a) 
on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally 
binding upon it in accordance with its terms;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
on behalf of the Project Implementing Entity, that the Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its 
behalf and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon each such party 
in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank 
dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any 
event has occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this 
Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the 
notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased 
to exist.  
 
5.04. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective. This Agreement and all obligations 
of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect ninety (90) 
days after the date of this Agreement, unless the World Bank, after consideration 
of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of this 
Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE VI - 
RECIPIENT’S REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
H.E. Dr. Salam Fayyad 
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance 
Palestinian National Authority 
Ramallah, West Bank and Gaza 
 
Telephone: 
    Facsimile: 
970-2-297 
8846 
    970-2-297 
8845 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at the West Bank, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
By /s/ Salam Fayyad                       
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
By /s/ Dina N. Abu-Ghaida 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objectives of this Project are to: (i) provide assistance for mitigating further 
deterioration in the delivery of essential municipal services in the West Bank and Gaza; (ii) 
create temporary job opportunities at the local level; (iii) promote pilot initiatives that foster 
collaboration among local governments and NGOs and promote municipal cost recovery.  
 
The Project consists of the Original Project with the modifications as set out below: 
 
Part 1
:
Emergency Municipal Services Assistance Grants
1.1 
Rehabilitation, reconstruction, and upgrading of deteriorating and damaged 
municipal infrastructure and facilities, and supply of equipment to sustain municipal 
service provision. 
 
1.2. 
Financing non-wage budgetary support, including expenses for fuel, equipment 
spare parts, electricity bills for street lighting and other related direct costs for the 
provision of essential municipal services.  
 
Part 2
:
Labor-Intensive Employment Generation
Support for labor-intensive temporary employment sub-projects in various 
sectors of the economy. These sub-projects will be identified and implemented by 
municipalities in coordination with local community groups.  
 
Part 3
:
Innovation Window
No activities will be undertaken within this component under this Additional 
Financing.
 
Part 4
:
Project Management Costs
4.1. 
Management fees for the Municipal Development and Lending Fund (MDLF). 
 
4.2. 
No activities will be undertaken within this sub-component under this Additional 
Financing.
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate implementation of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions 
approved by the World Bank.  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Grant. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement of any of its 
provisions. 
B.
 
Project Implementation
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity: (i) to maintain the 
Environment Management Plan, acceptable to the World Bank; (ii) to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary 
Agreement, the Project Operational Manual, the Disbursement Plan, the Consultant 
Report and the Environmental Management Plan; (iii) to take all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services, and other resources, necessary or appropriate for 
the carrying out of the Project; and (iv) not to take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation 
A. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the 
Page  9
-
8
-
end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the World Bank. 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare financial 
statements and have these statements audited in accordance with the requirements of 
Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions and the Project Agreement. Each such audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
B. Completion 
Report 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
agreed with the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of each calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of the period covered by such report.
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 2.06 (b) (ii) of the Standard Conditions the Recipient 
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare the Completion Report in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement. 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.  
All goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in: 
(a) 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October, 2006 
(“Procurement Guidelines”) in the case of goods and works, and Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Recipients” 
published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (“Consultant 
Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; and 
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan. 
2.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  10
-
9
-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following 
methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of 
goods and works for those contracts, which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) 
National Competitive Bidding; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Force 
Account. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding 
shall be subject to the following additional procedures: 
(i) 
public enterprises in parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are 
legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
law, and are not a dependent agency of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(ii) 
foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate under the same 
conditions as local bidders.  In particular, no preference over 
foreign bidders shall be granted to local bidders in bid 
evaluation; 
 
(iii) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised on at least two (2) 
consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide circulation, and 
prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) 
days between the date on which the notification appears for the 
first time and the deadline for bid submission.  With the specific 
approval of the World Bank, this minimum period of thirty (30) 
days may be reduced to a minimum period of ten (10) days in the 
case of emergency operations; 
 
(iv) 
until standard bidding documents acceptable to the World Bank 
have been introduced by the Project Implementing Entity, the 
standard bidding documents of the World Bank shall be used; 
 
(v) 
qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding 
documents, and 
all 
criteria so specified, and 
only
 criteria  
so specified, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is 
qualified.  Bids of bidders not meeting such criteria shall be 
rejected as non-qualified.  The fact that a bidder meets or 
surpasses the specified qualification criteria shall not be taken 
into account in the evaluation of such bidder’s bid; 
Page  11
-
10
 - 
 
(vi) 
evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding 
documents, and all evaluation criteria other than price shall be 
quantified in monetary terms. All evaluation criteria so specified, 
and 
only 
criteria so specified, shall be used in bid evaluation.  
Merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation; 
 
(vii) 
if classification of contractors is required, contractors that have 
not yet been classified but meet the required qualifications shall 
be enabled to obtain the necessary classification during the 
bidding procedure.  Any contractor that has been classified in a 
class higher than the lowest class shall not be restricted to 
bidding in his own class but shall be eligible also to bid in any 
lower class; 
 
(viii) 
bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be accepted 
whether mailed or hand-carried; 
 
(ix) 
bids shall be opened in the presence of bidders who wish to 
attend, and immediately after the deadline for bid submission.  
Said deadline, and the place of bid opening, shall be announced 
in the invitation to bid. The name of each bidder, and the amount 
of his bid, shall be read aloud and recorded when opened in the 
minutes of bid opening. The minutes of bid opening shall be 
signed by the members of the bid opening committee 
immediately after bid opening; 
 
(x) 
bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be 
returned to the bidders unopened; 
 
(xi) 
a bid containing material deviations from or reservations to the 
terms, conditions and specifications of the bidding documents 
shall be rejected as not substantially responsive.  A bidder shall 
not be permitted to withdraw material deviations or reservations 
once bids have been opened; 
 
(xii) 
the bid evaluation shall be carried out in strict adherence to the 
criteria specified in the bidding documents, and the contract shall 
be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the lowest evaluated 
and substantially responsive bid; 
 
(xiii) 
a bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to 
undertake obligations not specified in the bidding documents or 
otherwise to modify his bid as originally submitted; and 
 
Page  12
-
11
 - 
 
(xiv) 
there shall be no post-bidding negotiations with the lowest or any 
other bidder. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Proc
urement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except 
as 
otherwise 
provided 
in      
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 Other 
Me
thods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of 
consultants’ services for those assignments, which are specified in the Procurement Plan: 
(a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection based on Consultants’ 
Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection; (e) Selection of Individual Consultants; and 
(f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
World Bank. 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions, (b) this Section, and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as 
revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement 
pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below.   
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  13
-
12
 - 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated   
(expressed in US  Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(1)  Goods 
 
753,000 
100% 
(2)  Works 
 
330,353 
100% 
(3) Incremental Operating Costs* 
 
1,706,647 
100% 
(4) Management Fee for MDLF  
and audit 
 210,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
3,000,000
For purposes of this table:  
 
(a) 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental recurrent expenditures 
incurred in connection with the Project on account of: the cost of cleaning and 
maintaining public land, facilities, and assets; the cost of water and electricity utilities 
related to the provision of municipal services; the cost of fuel to run electric generators 
and water and wastewater pumps; the costs of collecting and dumping solid waste in 
legally permissible areas; the cost of carrying out laboratory tests; the cost of maintaining 
and operating municipal service vehicles; the cost of maintaining electromechanical and 
IT equipment; the costs of carrying out advertisements under the Procurement Plan or the 
Procurement Guidelines, regarding the procurement of goods and works; the cost of 
office supplies; the cost of public awareness related to increasing municipal revenues; the 
cost of communications; the cost of renting service vehicles; and salaries of contractual 
staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil services; and
 
(b) 
“Management Fee for MDLF” means a fee for the administration 
expenses incurred by the MDLF in relation to the Project, as determined and defined in 
the Consultant Report, acceptable to the World Bank. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard Conditions is 
June 30, 2011. 
Page  14
-
13
 - 
 
APPENDIX I 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Report" means a consultant's report dated September 10, 2008, 
approved by the World Bank, prepared by an external consultant, setting out a 
detailed analysis of, and the calculation for, the MDLF's Management Fee.   
 
4. 
“Disbursement Plan” means the work plan dated April 30, 2009, setting forth the 
projected disbursement targets and modalities for disbursements under the 
Original Project and the Additional Financing. 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Recipient’s environmental 
management plan for the Project, as such plan may be updated from time to time 
in agreement with the World Bank, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and 
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the 
Project to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to 
the World Bank. 
 
6. 
“Original Project” means the project described in the Original Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement. 
7. 
“Original Trust Fund Grant Agreement” means the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
for the Emergency Municipal Service Rehabilitation II Project (TF057873) 
between the World Bank and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (for the 
benefit of the Palestinian Authority), dated February 2, 2007. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated April 28, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
9. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the Project Implementing Entity’s manual 
adopted on November 30, 2006, as amended on September 29, 2008, and updated 
prior to effectiveness of this Additional Financing, describing: (i) procedures for  
implementation of the Project, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement 
and with applicable laws and regulations and including, among other things; (ii) 
Page  15
-
14
 - 
 
procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial 
management, including adequate measures for procurement and forensic audits 
and complaint mechanisms in case of misuse of the proceeds of the Grant
,
and 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (iii) sample formats for periodic reports 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the World 
Bank; and (iv) procedures and arrangements for cost sharing.   
 
10. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Grant Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make 
the proceeds of the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
Page  16
-
15
 - 
 
APPENDIX-II 
 
Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 2.09 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.09. 
Visits. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of the 
Project and for a period of ten (10) years thereafter: 
 
(a) 
enable representatives of the World Bank to visit any part of the West 
Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority for purposes related to 
the Grant; and 
 
(b) 
enable the World Bank’s representatives: (i) to visit any facilities and 
sites included in the Project; and (ii) to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, and any documents relevant to the performance of its obligations under the 
Grant Agreement.” 
 
2. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 3.07 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.07. 
Financing Taxes.   
 
(a) 
The Grant Agreement may specify that the proceeds of the Grant may 
not be withdrawn to pay for Taxes levied by, or in the parts of West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority on or in respect of Eligible 
Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  In such case, 
if the amount of any such Taxes decreases or increases, the World Bank may, by notice to 
the Recipient, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant specified in the Grant Agreement, as required to ensure 
consistency with such limitation on withdrawals.” 
 
3. 
Sub-sections (a) and (h) of Section 4.02 are deleted, and consequently,  
Sub-sections (b) through (k) are re-lettered as Sub-sections (a) through (i). 
 
4. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (b) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
Fraud and Corruption. 
At any time, the World Bank determines that any 
representative of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any entity in the West Bank and 
Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or any other recipient of any of 
the proceeds of the Grant) has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of the Grant, without the Recipient 
(or any such agency thereof or any such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
Page  17
-
16
 - 
 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority or any other such recipient) having taken timely 
and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such practices when 
they occur.” 
 
5. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (c) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Cross Suspension
.
IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient or any agency thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, to make withdrawals under any 
agreement with IBRD or with IDA because of a failure by the Recipient, or any agency 
thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, to perform any of its obligations under such agreement or any other agreement 
with IBRD or IDA.” 
 
6. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (f) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(f) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. 
The Recipient or any 
other entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project has, without the consent 
of the World Bank: (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, any of its obligations 
arising under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property or assets financed wholly or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Grant; provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business 
which, in the opinion of the World Bank:  (A) do not materially and adversely affect the 
ability of the Recipient (or such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising 
under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project; and (B) do not materially and adversely affect the financial condition or 
operation of the Recipient (or such other entity).” 
 
7. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (g) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(g) 
Condition of Recipient.  
If the Grant has been made to a Recipient which 
is not a member of IBRD: 
 
(i) 
Any action has been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment 
or suspension of operations of the Recipient (or of any other 
entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project). 
 
(ii) 
The Recipient (or any other entity responsible for implementing 
any part of the Project) has ceased to exist in the same legal form 
as that prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
In the opinion of the World Bank, the legal character, ownership 
or control of the Recipient (or any other entity responsible for 
implementing any part of the Project) has changed from that 
Page  18
-
17
 - 
 
prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement so as to 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient (or 
such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under 
or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement, or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project.” 
 
8. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (h) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(h) 
Ineligibility
.
IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipient ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by IBRD or IDA or otherwise to participate in 
the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by IBRD or 
IDA (including as administrator of funds provided by another financier), as a result of a 
determination by IBRD or IDA that the Recipient has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any 
financing made by IBRD or IDA.”  
9. 
Sub-section (c) of Section 4.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Fraud and Corruption. 
At any time, the World Bank determines, with 
respect to any amount of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient (or any agency 
thereof or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any other recipient of the proceeds of the Grant) without the Recipient (or 
any such agency thereof or any such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or any such other recipient of the proceeds of the 
Grant) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to 
address such practices when they occur.” 
 
10. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 4.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
If the World Bank determines that an amount of the Grant has been used 
in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Grant Agreement or these Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon notice by the World Bank to the Recipient, 
promptly refund such amount to the World Bank. Such inconsistent use shall include, 
without limitation:  
 
(i)  
use of such amount to make a payment for an expenditure that is 
not an Eligible Expenditure; or  
 
(ii)  
(A) engaging in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive 
practices in connection with the use of such amount, or (B) use 
of such amount to finance a contract during the procurement or 
execution of which such practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any 
entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Page  19
-
18
 - 
 
Palestinian Authority, or other recipient of such amount of the 
Grant), in either case without the Recipient (or such agency 
thereof or such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
World Bank to address such practices when they occur.” 
 
11. 
Sub-section (j) of Section 5.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(j) 
If, within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award have been 
delivered to the parties, the award has not been complied with, any party may:  (i) enter 
judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of competent 
jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by execution; or  
(iii) pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for the enforcement of 
the award and the provisions of the Grant Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement of the award 
against the Recipient except as such procedure may be available otherwise than by reason 
of the provisions of this Section.” 
 
12. 
Paragraph (17) of the Appendix is deleted and, consequently, paragraphs (18) 
through (26) are re-numbered as paragraphs (17) through (25). 
 
