Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF096990 
 
Danish Trust Fund  
Grant Agreement 
 
(Emergency Municipal Service Rehabilitation II Project) 
 
between 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Danish Trust Fund for ESMRP II) 
 
Dated June 10 , 2010 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF096990 
 
DANISH TRUST FUND FOR EMSRP II  
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 10, 2010 entered into between the PALESTINE 
LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(“Recipient”) (for the benefit of the Palestinian 
Authority) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World 
Bank”), acting as administrator of the Trust Fund provided by the Government of the 
Kingdom of Denmark (“Donor”) for the Second Emergency Municipal Service 
Rehabilitation Project.  
 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”), with the modifications set 
forth in Appendix II to this Agreement, constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
 
Article II 
The Project 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
cause the Project to be carried out by the Municipal Development and Lending 
Fund (“Project Implementing Entity”) in accordance with the provisions of 
Article II of the Standard Conditions, this Agreement and the agreement dated 
the same date as this Agreement between the World Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity, as such agreement may be amended from time to time 
(“Project Agreement”). 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
Article III 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to five 
million two hundred eighteen thousand and sixty eight United States Dollars 
($5,218,068) (“Grant”) to assist in financing the Project.  
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.03. 
The Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank 
receives periodic contributions.  In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the 
availability of such funds. 
 
Article IV 
Additional Remedies 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (k) of the 
Standard Conditions consist of the following:   
 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity has failed to perform any obligation 
under the Project Agreement.  
 
(b) 
IBRD or IDA has declared the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to
 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the IBRD or IDA or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any 
project financed in whole or in part by IBRD or IDA, as a result of a 
determination by IBRD or IDA that the Project Implementing Entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by IBRD 
or IDA. 
 
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Recipient has taken or permitted to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the performance by the Project Implementing 
Entity of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
Page  4
3
(e) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which makes it 
improbable that the Project Implementing Entity will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.   
 
Article V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified 
below have been satisfied. 
 
(a) 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient 
and of the Project Agreement on behalf of the Project Implementing 
Entity have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental and corporate action. 
 
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Palestinian Authority. 
 
(c) 
The On-Granting Agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(d) 
A Procurement Manager with qualifications acceptable to the World 
Bank has been employed by the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01(a), there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World 
Bank of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, 
a
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the 
Recipient, showing the following matters:  
 
(a) 
on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally 
binding upon it in accordance with its terms;  
 
(b) 
on behalf of the Project Implementing Entity, that the Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its 
behalf and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms;  
 
Page  5
4
(c) 
the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the 
Palestinian Authority and is legally binding upon each such party in 
accordance with its terms; and 
 
(d) 
the On-Granting Agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Palestinian 
Authority and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon each such party in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank 
dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any 
event has occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this 
Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the 
notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased 
to exist.  
 
5.04. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has 
not entered into effect ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, unless 
the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a 
later date for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Article VI 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the 
Palestinian National Authority 
Ramallah, West Bank and Gaza 
 
Telephone: 
    Facsimile: 
970-2-297 
8846 
    970-2-297 
8845 
 
 
Page  6
5
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at the West Bank, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
/s/ Salam Fayyad 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
/s/ Mariam J. Sherman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objectives of this Project are to: (i) provide assistance for mitigating further 
deterioration in the delivery of essential municipal services in Gaza; and (ii) create 
temporary job opportunities at the local level. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1
.
Emergency Municipal Services Assistance
:
(a) 
Rehabilitation, reconstruction and upgrading of deteriorating and 
damaged municipal infrastructure and facilities, and supply of equipment to 
sustain municipal service provision; and 
 
(b) 
Financing non-wage recurrent expenditures to sustain essential municipal 
services, including expenses for fuel, equipment spare parts, electricity bills for 
street lighting and other related direct costs for the provision of essential 
municipal services] 
 
Part 2
.
Labor-intensive Employment Generation:
Support for labor-intensive temporary employment sub-projects identified and 
implemented by municipalities in coordination with local community groups.  
 
Part 3
.
Project Management Costs:
Provision of management fees for the MDLF in relation to the activities carried out 
under the Project. 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement and On-Granting Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Grant available to the Palestinian Authority under a subsidiary agreement 
(“Subsidiary Agreement”) between the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority, 
under terms and conditions approved by the World Bank, which shall include the 
following:  
(a) 
The Palestinian Authority shall on-grant the proceeds of the Grant to the 
Project Implementing Entity under an on-granting agreement (“On-
Granting Agreement”) to be entered into between the Palestinian 
Authority and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and 
conditions identical to the financial terms of this Agreement and under 
terms and conditions approved by the World Bank. 
(i) 
The Palestinian Authority shall: (i) take all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate for the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying 
out of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement and shall 
cause the Palestinian Authority to exercise its rights under the On-Granting 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient, the 
Palestinian Authority and the World Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Grant.  Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its 
provisions, and the Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority not to assign, 
amend, abrogate
 
or waive the On-Granting Agreement or any of its provisions. 
B
.
Other
 
The Recipient shall, through the Palestinian Authority, cause the Project 
Implementing Entity: (i) to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the On-Granting 
Agreement, the Project Operational Manual and the Environmental Management 
Plan; (ii) not to amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the 
Environmental Management Plan, Subsidiary Agreement, On-Granting 
Agreement, or Project Operational Manual without prior approval of the World 
Page  9
8
Bank;  (iii) to take all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services, 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of the Project; 
and (iv) not to take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project. 
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the 
“Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and 
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”).
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis 
of indicators agreed with the World Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare the 
Completion Report in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the 
Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be furnished to the World 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.  
 
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial 
Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each such audit of the Financial Statements 
shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank 
not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Page  10
9
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.  
All goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in: 
(a) 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 (“Procurement Guidelines”) in the case of goods and 
works, and Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the 
World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (“Consultant 
Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; and 
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the 
Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(“Procurement Plan”). 
2.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following 
methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for 
procurement of goods and works for those contracts specified in the Procurement 
Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; (d) 
Force Account. The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding 
shall be subject to the following additional provisions: 
(i) 
public enterprises in parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are 
legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
law, and are not a dependent agency of the Palestinian Authority; 
Page  11
10 
 
(ii) 
foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate under the same 
conditions as local bidders.  In particular, no preference over 
foreign bidders shall be granted to local bidders in bid 
evaluation; 
 
(iii) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised on at least two (2) 
consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide circulation, and 
prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) 
days between the date on which the notification appears for the 
first time and the deadline for bid submission.  With the specific 
approval of the World Bank, this minimum period of 30 days 
may be reduced to a minimum period of 10 days in the case of 
emergency operations; 
 
(iv) 
until standard bidding documents acceptable to the World Bank 
have been introduced by the Project Implementing Entity, the 
standard bidding documents of the World Bank shall be used; 
 
(v) 
qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding 
documents, and 
all 
criteria so specified, and 
only
 criteria  
so specified, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is 
qualified.  Bids of bidders not meeting such criteria shall be 
rejected as non-qualified. The fact that a bidder meets or 
surpasses the specified qualification criteria shall not be taken 
into account in the evaluation of such bidder’s bid; 
 
(vi) 
evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding 
documents, and all evaluation criteria other than price shall be 
quantified in monetary terms. All evaluation criteria so specified, 
and 
only 
criteria so specified, shall be used in bid evaluation.  
Merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation; 
 
(vii) 
if classification of contractors is required, contractors that have 
not yet been classified but meet the required qualifications shall 
be enabled to obtain the necessary classification during the 
bidding procedure.  Any contractor that has been classified in a 
class higher than the lowest class shall not be restricted to 
bidding in his own class but shall be eligible also to bid in any 
lower class; 
 
(viii) 
bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be accepted 
whether mailed or hand-carried; 
 
Page  12
11 
 
(ix) 
bids shall be opened in the presence of bidders who wish to 
attend, and immediately after the deadline for bid submission.  
Said deadline, and the place of bid opening, shall be announced 
in the invitation to bid.  The name of each bidder, and the 
amount of his bid, shall be read aloud and recorded when opened 
in the minutes of bid opening.  The minutes of bid opening shall 
be signed by the members of the bid opening committee 
immediately after bid opening; 
 
(x) 
bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be 
returned to the bidders unopened; 
 
(xi) 
a bid containing material deviations from or reservations to the 
terms, conditions and specifications of the bidding documents 
shall be rejected as not substantially responsive.  A bidder shall 
not be permitted to withdraw material deviations or reservations 
once bids have been opened; 
 
(xii) 
the bid evaluation shall be carried out in strict adherence to the 
criteria specified in the bidding documents, and the contract shall 
be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the lowest evaluated 
and substantially responsive bid; 
 
(xiii) 
a bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to 
undertake obligations not specified in the bidding documents or 
otherwise to modify his bid as originally submitted; and 
 
(xiv) 
there shall be no post-bidding negotiations with the lowest or any 
other bidder. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in 
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection; and 
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants, including selection on a sole source basis 
subject to proper justification. 
 
Page  13
12 
 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the World Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed 
in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
under the Project 
 3,071,075.00 
100% 
(2) Management Fee for 
MDLF 
 365,264.76 
100% 
(3) Incremental Operating 
Costs 
 1,781,728.24 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 5,218,068.00 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
Page  14
13 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
June 30, 2011. 
Page  15
14 
 
APPENDIX I 
 
Definition 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 
2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
3. 
 “Environmental Management Plan” means the Recipient’s environmental 
management plan for the Project, dated April 5, 2007, as such plan may be 
updated from time to time in agreement with the World Bank, setting forth the 
mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the 
implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce adverse 
environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the World Bank. 
 
4. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means recurrent expenditures of municipalities to 
cover the costs of cleaning and maintaining public land, facilities, and assets 
including road maintenance; maintaining public health services including water 
purification and pest control; water and electricity utilities related to the 
provision of municipal services; fuel to run electric generators and water and 
wastewater pumps; collecting and dumping solid waste in legally permissible 
areas; carrying out laboratory tests; the cost of maintaining and operating 
municipal service vehicles; equipment spare parts; vehicle insurance; maintaining 
electromechanical and IT equipment; carrying out advertisements under the 
Procurement Plan or the Procurement Guidelines, regarding the procurement of 
goods, and works; office supplies; public awareness related to increasing 
municipal revenues; the cost of communications; renting service vehicles; and 
salaries of contractual staff or workers, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Recipient’s civil service and municipal civil servants, all directly related to the 
provision of essential municipal services. 
 
5. 
“Management Fee for MDLF” means a fee of seven percent (7%) of the Grant 
amount for the administration expenses incurred by the MDLF in relation to 
activities carried out under the Project. 
 
6. 
“On-Granting Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Grant Agreement pursuant to which the Palestinian Authority 
shall make the proceeds of the Grant available to the Project Implementing 
Entity. 
 
Page  16
15 
 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated May 13, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
9. 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “MDLF” means the Municipal Development 
and Lending Fund, established pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity’s 
Legislation. 
10. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Decree of the Council of 
Ministers Recipient No. 05/34/mim.waw.alf.qaf of 2005. 
 
11. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the Project Implementing Entity’s manual 
adopted on November 30, 2006, as amended on January 26, 2009, describing: (i) 
procedures for  implementation of the Project, consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement and with applicable laws and regulations and including, among 
other things; (ii) procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, 
financial management, including adequate measures for procurement and 
forensic audits and complaint mechanisms in case of misuse of the proceeds of 
the Grant
,
and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (iii) sample formats for 
periodic reports as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the World Bank; and (iv) procedures and arrangements for cost 
sharing.   
 
12. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Grant Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make 
the proceeds of the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
Page  17
16 
 
APPENDIX II 
 
Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:   
 
1. 
Section 2.09 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.09. 
Visits. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of the 
Project and for a period of ten (10) years thereafter: 
 
(a) 
enable representatives of the World Bank to visit any part of the West 
Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority for purposes related to 
the Grant; and 
 
(b) 
enable the World Bank’s representatives: (i) to visit any facilities and 
sites included in the Project; and (ii) to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, and any documents relevant to the performance of its obligations under the 
Grant Agreement.” 
 
2. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 3.07 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.07. 
Financing Taxes.   
 
(a) 
The Grant Agreement may specify that the proceeds of the Grant may 
not be withdrawn to pay for Taxes levied by, or in the parts of West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority on or in respect of Eligible 
Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  In such case, 
if the amount of any such Taxes decreases or increases, the World Bank may, by notice to 
the Recipient, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant specified in the Grant Agreement, as required to ensure 
consistency with such limitation on withdrawals.” 
 
3. 
Sub-sections (a) and (h) of Section 4.02 are deleted, and consequently,  
Sub-sections (b) through (k) are re-lettered as Sub-sections (a) through (i). 
 
4. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (b) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
Fraud and Corruption. 
At any time, the World Bank determines that any 
representative of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any entity in the West Bank and 
Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or any other recipient of any of 
the proceeds of the Grant) has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of the Grant, without the Recipient 
Page  18
17 
 
(or any such agency thereof or any such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority or any other such recipient) having taken timely 
and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such practices when 
they occur.” 
 
5. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (c) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Cross Suspension
.
IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient or any agency thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, to make withdrawals under any 
agreement with IBRD or with IDA because of a failure by the Recipient, or any agency 
thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, to perform any of its obligations under such agreement or any other agreement 
with IBRD or IDA.” 
 
6. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (f) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(f) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. 
The Recipient or any 
other entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project has, without the consent 
of the World Bank: (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, any of its obligations 
arising under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property or assets financed wholly or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Grant; provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business 
which, in the opinion of the World Bank:  (A) do not materially and adversely affect the 
ability of the Recipient (or such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising 
under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project; and (B) do not materially and adversely affect the financial condition or 
operation of the Recipient (or such other entity).” 
 
7. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (g) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(g) 
Condition of Recipient.  
If the Grant has been made to a Recipient which 
is not a member of IBRD: 
 
(i) 
Any action has been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment 
or suspension of operations of the Recipient (or of any other 
entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project). 
 
(ii) 
The Recipient (or any other entity responsible for implementing 
any part of the Project) has ceased to exist in the same legal form 
as that prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
In the opinion of the World Bank, the legal character, ownership 
or control of the Recipient (or any other entity responsible for 
Page  19
18 
 
implementing any part of the Project) has changed from that 
prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement so as to 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient (or 
such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under 
or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement, or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project.” 
 
8. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (h) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(h) 
Ineligibility
.
IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipient ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by IBRD or IDA or otherwise to participate in 
the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by IBRD or 
IDA (including as administrator of funds provided by another financier), as a result of a 
determination by IBRD or IDA that the Recipient has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any 
financing made by IBRD or IDA.”  
9. 
Sub-section (c) of Section 4.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Fraud and Corruption. 
At any time, the World Bank determines, with 
respect to any amount of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient (or any agency 
thereof or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any other recipient of the proceeds of the Grant) without the Recipient (or 
any such agency thereof or any such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or any such other recipient of the proceeds of the 
Grant) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to 
address such practices when they occur.” 
 
10. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 4.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
If the World Bank determines that an amount of the Grant has been used 
in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Grant Agreement or these Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon notice by the World Bank to the Recipient, 
promptly refund such amount to the World Bank. Such inconsistent use shall include, 
without limitation:  
 
(i)  
use of such amount to make a payment for an expenditure that is 
not an Eligible Expenditure; or  
 
(ii)  
(A) engaging in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive 
practices in connection with the use of such amount, or (B) use 
of such amount to finance a contract during the procurement or 
execution of which such practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any 
Page  20
19 
 
entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority, or other recipient of such amount of the 
Grant), in either case without the Recipient (or such agency 
thereof or such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
World Bank to address such practices when they occur.” 
 
11. 
Sub-section (j) of Section 5.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(j) 
If, within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award have been 
delivered to the parties, the award has not been complied with, any party may:  (i) enter 
judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of competent 
jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by execution; or  
(iii) pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for the enforcement of 
the award and the provisions of the Grant Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement of the award 
against the Recipient except as such procedure may be available otherwise than by reason 
of the provisions of this Section.” 
 
12. 
Paragraph (17) of the Appendix is deleted and, consequently, paragraphs (18) 
through (26) are re-numbered as paragraphs (17) through (25). 
 
