Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
i_oiJ0 3!7 - /A/j>
Report No. 8756-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE PROVINCES OF EAST JAVA AND BALI
FEBRUARY 25, 1991
Asia Country Department V
Infrastructure Division
This document ha a restrided distibudon and may be used by recpients only In the perfonnrmn of
their officiil duties. its contents may not otherwise be dWcosed wikhout Wodd Bank authorizaLto



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January, 1991)
Currency unit   = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
$1              = Rp 1,901
Rp 1 million    = $526
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FISCAL YEAR
Governn.ent of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31
Provincial and Local G9vernments and Enterprises: April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB            - Asian Development Bank
AMDAL          -  GOI environmental assessment process
ANDAL          -  GOI detailed environmental impact assessment study
APBD I/II      - Annual provincial/local government development budget
APBN           - Annual central government development budget
BADAN          - Agency
BANGDA         -  Directorate General for Regional Development, MHA
BAPPENAS       - National Development Planning Agency
BAPPEDA I/II   - Provincial/Local Development Planning Agency
BPAM           -  Transitional (pre-PDAM) water supply enterprise owned and
operated by DGCK, MPW
BPKP           - Central Audit Bureau
BPD            -  Regional Development Bank
BPN            -  National Land Agency
Bupati         -  Kabupaten chief executive (district head)
CPMO/FO        - Central Program Management Office/Finance Office
DATI I/II      -  Provincial/local level government
Desa           - Rural village
DGCK           - Directorate General Cipta Karya (Human Settlements), MPW
DGBM           - Directorate General Bina Marga (Roads and Bridges), MPW
DGWRD          - Directorate General for Water Resource Development, MPW
Dinas I/II     -  Provincial/local government departments
DIP/DIPDA -    Centrallregional project budget
DLA            - Domestic Lending Arrangements for local governments and
enterprises
DPRD I/II      -  Provincial/Local People's Representate Councils
DPUK           - Kabupaten/Kotamadya department of public works
DPUP           -  Provincial department of pvblic works
DUP/DUPDA      -  Central/regional preliminary project budget
GOI            - Government of Indonesia
GRDP           - Gross Regional Domestic Product
IKK            -  Kecamatan headquarters towns
IMG            -  IUIDP Implementation Management Group, BAPPENAS



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INPRES         -  Presidental Instruction, including a class of 001 grants
INS/89/014     - UNDP IUlDP Implementation Support Project
IUIDP          -  Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
Kabupaten      - Local (Level II) district government
Kampung        - Urban neighborhood
KANWIL         -  Provincial branch of central GOI department
Kecamatan      -  Kabupaten or kotamadya administrative sut-district
Keluruhan      -  Urban administrative unit comparable to a rural desa
KEPRES         -  Presidential decision
KIP            -  Rampung Improvement Program
Komisi Da-rah  -  Provincial Commission for Environmental Management
Kotamadyt      -  Local (Level II) city government (incorporated municipality)
Kotip          - Kota administratip, large kabupaten town designated as
kotamada for administrative purposes only
LIDAP          - Local Institutional Development Action Program
LKMD           - Rural desa or urban keluruhan development council
lpd            - Litres per capita per day
llsec          -  Litres per second
Lurah          -  Kelurahan Head
HCK            -  Communal lavatory and toilet facility
MOC            - Ministry of Communications
MIIP           - Market Infrastructure Improvement Program
MHA            - Ministry of Home Affairs
MENPAN         - Ministry of State for Administrative Reform
MOF            - kinistry of Finance
MPW            - Miniitry of Public Works
NGO            - Non-governmental orgarnization
NUDS           -  National Urban Development Study
O&M            -  Operations and maintenance
PADS           -  Pendapatan Asli Daerah (local taxes and charges)
PeB            -  National land and buildings tax
PDAM           -  Local government water enterprise
PIA            -  Program Implementation Agreement
PIL            -  Preliminary environmental assessment
PMO/FO         -  Local Program Management Office/Finance Office
PPIAILPIA      -  Provincial/Local Program Implementation Agreement
PPMO/FO        -  Provincial Program Management Office/Finance Office
PJH            -  Local government medium-term (five-year) development plan
PP             -  Government regulation
PUOD           - Directorate General for Public Administration and Regional
Autonomy, MRA
RAKORBANG I/It - Provincial/local annual budget coordination meeting
Repelita       -  Five-year Development Plan
RIAP           -  Revenue Improvement Action Program
RKL            -  Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
SDB            -  Subsidi Daerah Bawahan (provincial development grant)
SDO            -  Routine central GOI grant, primarily for salaries
SERWILDA I/II  -  Provincial/local government chief administrative officer
SR             -  Surat Keputusan, decree of a senior official
SKB            -  SR Bersama, joint SK of two or more senior officials
TKPP           - Urban Development Coordination Team
UNCHS          - United Nations Center for Human Settlements
UNDP           - United Nations Development Program
USL            -  Urban Sector Loan (2816-IND)
Walikota       - Kotamadya chief executive (mayor)
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



- i -
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA - BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers           The Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiariess      Forty-five local governments of East Java and Bali and
their water enterprises, including the City of Surabaya
water enterprise
Amounts              $180.3 million equivalent
Terms               Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Onlending terms:    Part of the proceeds of the loan, the equivalent of up to
$50 million, would partially reimburse the Government for
loans through domestic lending arrangements (DLA) to
qualifying local governments and their water enterprises
for periods keyed to the economic life of investments (5-
20 years) and at interest rates indexed to and gradually
approaching market rates, resulting in rates ranging from
9 percent to 11.5 percent per annum. Interest and
commitment charges would be paid during the grace period.
The Central Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
ProJect ObJectives
and Description:  The proposed project would improve the quality of urban
infrastructure investments and service delivery in East
Java and Bali. Operational objectives would be to:
(a) support urban infrastructure investment (including
rehabilitation) and O&H in 45 local governments in East
Java and Bali, including a limited expansion of the water
distribution system of the City of Surabaya (other
investments in Sursbaya, East Java's capital and largest
city, would be covered under a separate project); (b)
improve urban infrastructure expenditure programming,
financial planning and information management for these
local governmentst (c) encourage local revenue generation,
improve financial management and, more generally,
strengthen local government human resources and
institutions including capacities for more effective
community participation and environmental management; and
(d) support sector development. As GOI's and the Bank's
first opportunity to test and develop the full Integrated
Urban Infrastructure Development Program (IUIDP) approach,
the project would also provide a programmatic model for
evaluation and the choice of approaches for other
provinces. In order to achieve these objectives, the
project would provide financing fors (a) infrastructure



- ii -
development and O&M (a conservatively estimated five-year
expenditure program for water supply, drainage, solid
waste management, sanitation, urban roads, neighborhood
improvement and market improvement and market infrastruc-
ture improvement)t (b) project implementation support; and
(c) institutional development.
Benefits and Risks: The most important expected benefits ar.4 risks of the
project are inherent in GOI's gradual movement toward
regional autonomy. The chief benefits would flow from
more efficient use of resources allocated to the sector
through improved delivery of urban infrastructure and
services by increasingly capable and responsible local
governments. Earlier Bank-supported projects have demon-
strated that such improvements are feasible and highly
beneficial, especially for living environments of the
poor. The chief risk is that the pace of required insti-
tutional development is difficult to predict and may con-
strain achievement of project objectives. Project prepa-
ration and implementation quality will be a focal point of
Bank supervision as local governments learn new roles.
These risks are considered relatively low in East Java and
Bali. The five-year expenditure programs are not
substantially greater in real terms than those actually
delivered during the last five years, further reducing
risks, and there will be few if any new or complex kinds
of subprojects. Finally, the UNDPIUNCHS IUIDP
Implementation Support Project and funds provided by a
Japanese grant would provide substantial assistance to GOI
and the Bank in carrying out effective project supervision
and in supporting essential institutional development.



- ili -
Estimated Cost: la                            Local     Foreign        Total
-------- ($ million) ------
Urban Infrastructure                171.1        93.1         264.2
Program Management                    7.5         5.9          13.4
Institutional Development             2.9         4.0           6.9
Total Base Costs                  181.5       103.0         284.5
Physical Contingencies               11.0         6.9          17.9
Price Contingencies                  44.5        13.6          58.1
Total Project Cost                237.0       123.5         360.5
Interest during construction          2.9        10.0          12.9
Total Financing Required         239.9       133.5        373.4
La   Includes taxes and duties estimated at $24.9 million equivalent, land at
$5.8 million equivalent, and current O&M at $68.7 million equivalent.
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign        Total
------- …$ million) ------
Local governments                    69.9         -            69.9
Water enterprises                     60.9        -            60.9
Provincial governments               13.1         -            13.1
Private contributions                 6.9         -             6.9
Central government                   25.2         -            25.2
Japanese grant                        -           4.2           4.2
IBRD                                 61.0       119.3         180.S
Total Project Cost                237.0       123.5         360.5
Interest During Construction          2.9        10.0          12.9
Total Financing Required          239.9       133.5         373.4



INDONESIA
EAST JAVA - BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE URBAN SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
A. Sector Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .  1
Demographic Trends .h.i.c.T.n.d.s .  .   .....................   1
Institutional Framework for Sector Development . . . . . .    1
Sector Constraints and Priorities  . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
B. Urban Development in East Java and Bali  . . . . . . . . .    5
Eas t  Java     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    .  .  5
Bali   .    .  .    .  .    .  .  .  .    .    .  .  .  .    .  .    .  .  .    .    .  .  .   .  .  ..6
II.  SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
A. Government Strategy  ....  .  .  .  .  .   ..................  8
B. Bank Experience  ....  .  .  .   . . . . . .  . . . .  . . .  10
C.    Bank  Strategy    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
III.   THE  PROJECT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
A.  Project Origin and Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
B.  Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement  . .   18
C. Project Description    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
D.   Project  Costs   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  20
E. Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . .    .      . . . . .    22
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.       ...............                   24
A.  Responsibilities ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ......... ...  .   .   24
B. Program Implementation Agreements    . . . . . . . . . .    27
C.  Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   .   27
D.   Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .     .  28
E.    Disbursement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
F. Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
G.  Project Reporting, Monitoring and Bank Supervision . . . .   32
H. Land Acquisition and Reeettlement . . .                     33
I. Operations and Maintenance.       .. . . .                  33
J. Environmental Impact Assessment and Management . . . . . .   34
K. Local Participation ....                                    35
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia during MarchlApril 1990. The mission consisted of H.B. Fisher
(Leader), C. Godavitarne, L. Lovei, M. Nuch, S. O'Humay, U. Sadikin (IBRD) and
J. Aden, S. Dice, B. Binder, B. Lane and E. Wegelin (consultants). The peer
review team comprised of Messrs. J. Herbert, J. Hicks, J. Silverman, Y.
Uchimura and D. Williams. Messrs. L. Jeurling, Chief (AS5IN) and R. Cheetham,
Director (AS5DR) have endorsed the project.



- vi -
Page No.
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .   36
A.  Local Governments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . *  . 36
Current Financial Condition  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
Key   Issues   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .  .   .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  37
B. Water Enterprises   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . . . .    39
Financial Appraisal Process  .  ........ . . . . . .   39
Performance and Current Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
Financial Projections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
C.  Domestic Lending Arrangements   . . . . . . . .  . . . . .   41
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . .  . . . .  . . . . .    43
A.  Economic Justification     . .  .  .   .  .  . . . . . . . .   43
B.  Cost R^ecovery   .....   . ....    ..... . . . . . ..   44
C.  Poverty Impact        . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . .   45
D.  Environmental Impact . ..... . .  .   .   . . . . . . . .    .   45
E. Local Participation         . . .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . .   46
F.  Project Benefits and Risks        .  .  .  .  . . . . . . .   46
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . .   47
ANNEXES
1.  Detailed Project Cost Estimates  . . . . . . .   .  .    .. ...   .    49
2.  Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .    54
3.  Summary of Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     55
4.  Implementation Arrangements  . . . . . . . .. . .  . .    66
A.    Schedule   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    .  66
B.  Responsibilities and Organization     . . . . . . . .  . .    67
C.  Program and Subproject Appraisal Process   . . . . .  . .    70
D.  Technical Criteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          a. . . . .   73
E.  Economic Criteria  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   77
F. Model Provincial Program Implementation Agreement       . .    80
G. Model Local Program Implementation Agreement   . . .  . .    86
H.  Summary of Domestic Lending Agreements (DLA)   . . .  . .    90
5.  Batch I Contracts and Procurement Method . . . . . . . . . . .  102
6.  Disbursement Arrangements and Schedule   . . . .   . . . . . .  106
7.  Key Implementation and Performance Indicators and
reporting Systems  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  115
8.  Local Government Profiles  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  116
9.  Revenue Improvement Action Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  119
10.  Local Institutional Development Action Programs  . . . . . . .  123
11.  Water Enterprise Financial Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  126
12.  Local Government Financial Projections . . . . . . . . . . . .  138
'.3. Operations and Maintenance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  139
14.  Sample Infrastructure Expenditure Programs . . . . . . . . . .  144
15.  Environmental Assessment and Management  . . . . . . . . . . .  151
16.  Key Documents in the Project File  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  154



-vii -
MAPS                          j
IBRD No.:  22163  Project Pro4inces and Local Governments
IBRD No.s  22164  Kotamadya Paobolinggo (East Java):  Water Supply
IBRD No.:  22165  Kabupaten Bqdung (Bali):  Water Supply
IBRD No.:  22263  Kotamadya Probolinggo (East Java)s  Roads and Drainage
IBRD No.:  22264  Kabupaten Badung (Bali):  Roads and Drainage



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA - BALI URBAN DEVELOPE4ENT PROJECT
I. THE URBAN SECTOR
A. Sector Overview
Demographic Trends
1.1       The urban sector in Indonesia is important for economic and social
development of the country., The urban population exceeds 45 million and has
grown by about 4.7 percent per year during the past decade, more than double
the overall national population growth rate. By the year 2000, about 75
million or 36 percent of Indonesians will be city dwellers. Urban employment
has also grown at about 4.7 percent per year, much more rapidly than the
national rate and offering hope for absorption of surplus rural labor.
Indonesia's urban settlements include ten metropolitan and large cities of
more than 500,000, forty secondary cities of over 100,000 (typically
provincial headquarters and incorporated municipalities), two hundred small
towns (typically district headquarters) over 20,000 and about 3,200 service
ceaters (typically subdistrict headquarters) with populations of 3,000 to
20,000. While changes in urban boundaries and census definitions make
intercity comparisons difficult, it appears that metropolitan cities over one
million and secondary cities between 100,000 and 500,000 have grown most
rapidly since 1970. Service centers under 20,000 have grown most slowly.l/
Institutional Framework for Sector Development
1.2       National Administration.  The National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS) is responsible for overall planning and the allocation of
resources, with focus on Five-Year Development Plans (Repelita) and Annual
National Development Budgets (APBN). The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is
responsible for oversight of the regional governments, primarily through its
Directorate General for Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) and
Directorate General for Regional Development (BANODA). The Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) is responsible for oversight of most infrastructure. Within MPW,
the Directorate General for Human Settlements (Cipta Karya or DGCK) is
responsible for oversight of city and regional planning, water supply, urban
drainage, sanitation and sewerage, solid waste management, kampung
neighborhood improvement (KIP) and market infrastructure improvement (MIIP).
Also within MPW, the Directorate General for Roads (Bina Marga or DGBM) is
responsible for oversight of urban roads and bridges and the Directorate
General for Water Resource Development (DGWRD) is responsible for oversight of
1/ Cipta Karya, National Urban Development Strategy Final Report. September
1985, page 3, and Biro Pusat Statistik, Intercensal Population Survey
(SUPAS 85).



urban flood control and bulk water supply. The Ministry of Finance (MOP) is
responsible for central and local finance through its Directorate General for
Monetary Affairs (DGM), though the Directorate General for Budget (DGA -
Angaran) actually administer3 grant transfers; property tax administration
through its Directorats General for Taxation (DGP - Pajak); and analysis of
regional finance through its Agency for Financial Analysis (BAK - Badan
Analisa Keuangan).  Other  concerned central agencies include the National
Land Agency, the Ministry of State for Administrative Reform, DJrectorate
General for Land Transport of the Ministry of Communications, the Ministry of
State for Environment and Population, the Ministry of State fot Housing, the
Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Health. All key
agencies are represented in the Interagency Coordinating Team for Urban
Development (Tim Koordinasi or TKPP) chaired by BAPPENAS.
1.3       Regional Administration.  Indonesia has a highly centralized unitary
government in which all powers are held by the center that are not
specifically assigned to lower levels. Since 1974, however, the provincial
(Level I) and local (Level II) governments have been given increasing
responsibilities and delegated authority. They are now responsible for
delivery of most urban services. In all there are 27 provinces and 301 local
governments, including 54 kotamadyas (municipalities) and 247 kabupatens
(districts). Legislative powers at both provincial and local levels are held
by People's Representative Councils (Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat Daerah or DPRD)
consisting of mostly elected representatives.
1.4       The executive branches of provincial governments are headed by
governors who serve as representatives of the President and the overall
central government (GOI), and also as head of the semi-autonomous provincial
administrations. Bupatis (kabupaten beads) and walikotas (kotamadya mayors)
have parallel roles in representing the governors and provincial governments,
and in heading their own local governments. Regional Development Planning
Agencies (BAPPEDA I and II) report directly to their respective governors,
district heads or mayors, and have planning and resource allocation respon-
sibilities that are analogous to those of BAPPENAS in the central government.
Among these responsibilities are preparation of Five-Year Regional Development
Plans (Repelita Da- ah I and II) and Annual Regional Development Budgets (APBD
I and II). They often play a particularly important role in coordinating
central, provincial and local government development programs. Regional
government services are provided by separate departments (Dinas I and II)
analogous to line ministries of the central government and routine
administration is provided by bureaus under the regional secretaries (SEKWILDA
I and II). Most central line agencies are represented at the provincial level
by their KANWIL (Kantor Wilayah or regional offices). KANWIL of MPW are
located in all provinces and their primary role in the urban sector is now
shifting from execution of infrastructure projects to provision of technical
guidance and assistance to the concerned provincial and local Dinas I and II
public works departments (DPUP and DPUK). Presidential Executive Order t 14
(PP14) of 1987 significantly expanded urban infrastructure responsibilities
assigned to DPUPs and DPUKs, and MPW has made two supporting announcements:
(a) that approximately half of the Jakarta-based MPW staff would be relocated
to the provincial level or lower, and (b) that in the future most urban
project managers would be appointed within the DPUPs and DPUKs (up to now,
with the exception of KIP, most urban project managers have been appointed
within the KANWIL). MPW's announced intention is for the KANWILs to provide



technical assistance and guidance, confining their respcnsibility for project
implementation to activities which are purely national (e.g., national roads),
in accordance with a functional classification system defined under PP14.
Sector Constraints and Priorities
1.5       The Bank's 1984 Tirban Services Sector Report (No. 4800-IND)
estimated conservatively that total expenditures by central and local
goverNment on urban services investment, operation and maintenance (0OM)
during Repelita IV (1984-89) should be about Rp 900 billion per year (1986
prices) to overcome service backlogs at minimal levels and meet reasonable
growth needs for the additional 2.2 million urban residents each year together
with and for the associated growth in economic activity. Actual expenditures
increased to an average of Rp 700 billion per year with the initiation of the
Bank's Urban Jector Loan (USL - Ln. 2816-IND). Current estimates indicate
that about 76 percent of the urban population does not have direct access to a
piped water supply. Almost,two thirds of all urban households still r;!.y on
wells, and about 11 percent are dependent on a system of water vendors. About
65 percent o.. low-income groups share toilets and use of canals for sanitation
purposes remains common. In the larger cities, inadequate industrial water
supply and waste disposal is a serious problem. In terms of GOI's service and
equity objectives, more low-cost, local or tertiary systems investment are
needed in existing underserved urban areas. Overall, there is a growing need
for public investm.ents in, and rehabilitation of, primary and secondary
systems to support local infrastructure needs adequately and to support
adequate operations and maintenance (O&M).
1.6       While average incomes in urban areas have risen substantially over
the past eight years, distribution of income remains unequal and in 1987, over
20 percent of urban dwellers were -stimated 2/ still to be poor or near
poor. The problems of income die 'bution are exacerbated by deficiencies in
basic services and degradation of _..vironmental conditions leading to poor
health among the low-income population in particular.
1.7       Sector Finances.  The finances of provincial and local governments
have long been dominated by central government transfers and characterized by
weak local resource mobilization, low per capita budgets and very limi'ed use
of credit for capital investment. In 1983/84, explicit central government
transfers 3/ financed over three quarters of aggregate recurrent
expenditures and almost 80 percent of capital investments. By 1986187,
central government budgetary constraints caused by falling oil revenues led to
a severe curtailment of local investment programs which were reduced from
almost half of local budgets in 1983/84 to less than one quarter in 1986/87.
Thus a marked deterioration has taken place in the structure of local budgets
and the contribution of finance available to local governments for overall
sector development. The high level of growth (18.5 percent per year) in
locally generated revenues failed to significantly close the gap. Borrowings,
2/   Central Bureau of Statistics as reviewed in the Bank's Poverty Report.
3/   Including SDO central routine expenditure grants and Inpres central
development grants, but not including APBN DIPs (central GOI budget
grants-in-kind).



- 4 -
at 1.2 percent of total local receipts, continue to be an insignificant
feature of the financing system for most local services.
1.8       The dominant role of grants in the system of financing local
government services is the result of very limited local taxing authority. For
example, the potentially most promising local revenue source, the property
tax, has an effective rate of 0.1 percent set by the central government.
Since the central government is reluctant to delegate substantial taxing
authority to local governments, grants are a way to resolve the conflict
between local governments' taxing authority and expenditure responsibility.
1.9       Inter-government transfers are not the only contribution from the
central government to the urban infrastructure sector. As it was mentioned in
paragraph 1.4 above, the regional offices of central government agencies
execute a large number of infrastructure projects financed from the national
budget (APBN DIP). While the classification of urban infrastructure
responsibilities is still an ongoing exercise, it is clear that several of
these projects create infrastructure which, according to PP14, is classified
as local responsibility. These central government grants-in-kind
contributions are justified on the basis of weak institutional capabilities
and lack of financial resources at the local government level. In the past,
however, these projects frequently led to operation and maintenance
responsibilities which the local governments were not able to fulfill or,
since the infrastructure created was of low priority for them, did not want to
fulfill.
1.10      Sector coordination and local participation.  Despite the essential
simplicity of GOI's formal organizational structure and its steeply
hierarchical deci- -n systems, coordination of the urban sector has been poor,
and local participation in the decision processes has been limited.   The
sheer size and diversity of the country, the rapid pace of urbanization, the
number of concerned agencies, the lack of effective management information
systems and, perhaps most importantly, cultural constraints upon horizontal
communication within and among agencies, have led to a fragmented and
inefficient approach to urban development. As national attention to urban
problems increases, so too is the real potential for further fragmentation and
inefficiency. Improvements must begin at the local government and community
level, where effective coordination is much easier to sustain than in the
large central government. Only recently, however, have local levels begun to
participate directly and meaningfully in GOI's development planning and
implementation systems, via mechan'sms such as the IUIDP process.
1.11      Secondary city infrastructure issues.  Major issues faced in the
sector by cities with 20 to 500 thousand residents are similar to those faced
in larger cities:  (a) Ficreasing overall infrastructure deficits and O&H
backlogs; (b) inadequate water resource and waste management; (c) lack of
coordination in planning of transportation and land use; (d) weak financial
management as evidenced by deficient accounting practices and the lack of
adequate cost recovery, revenue generation, use of credit and consideration of
private sector options; (e) inequitable distribution of facilities, particula-
rly to the poor; (f) need for strengthening management of water enterprises
and municipal improvement programs including drainage, solid waste disposal,
and kampung microinfrastructure; (g) inefficient compression of the design and
construction cycles into single fiscal years; (h) poor information systems,



and (i) awkward and rapidly changing relationships among local, provincial and
central agencies with respect to assignment of responsibilities for project
and program preparation, appraisal, financing, implementation and O&M. There
is also a lack of trained and experienced managerial and technical personnel
at all levels. While the scales of these problems are smaller in secondary
cities targeted in the proposed project than in large and metropolitan cities
such as Jakarta and Surabaya, so too are the resources available for their
solution.
B. Urban Development in East Java and Bali
1.12      A combined total of about 36 million people live in East Java and
Bali. Were they to comprise an independent country, the provinces would rank
27th in the world and be larger than 159 other independent countries listed in
the World Bank Atlas. In terms of population, planning for the two-province
region is rather like planning for Spain, Poland or the combined states of
California, Oregon and Washington. Appreciation of the project region's size
and dive iity is a crucial first step in planning for its development.4/
East Java
1.13      Background.  East Java has for centuries included some of
Indonesia's richest and poorest areas. Surabaya in the north has been a
national urban center since early in the colonial period and a long belt of
farmland reaching from Ngawi in the west to Banyuwangi in the east has been
regarded as some of the best in Java. In contrast, the infertile northern
plain from Bonjonegoro to Madura and the dry Pacitan-Blitar region in the
south was until the 1970s characterized by abject poverty and agricultural
"involution,' relying on their own meager resources with few external market
links. Dramatic improvements came in the late 196Os and 1970s with political
and economic stabilization, the green revolution and overall growth of the
national economy. The provincial economy of East Java is dominated by
agriculture and the trade and services sectors, each contributing about a
third of Gross Regional Domestic Product (GRDP). The manufacturing sector
comprises about 15 percent of GRDP. East Java in the 1980s had a relatively
lower portion of its workforce in manufacturing (22 percent) than other Java
provinces, but the highest percentage of value added (27 percent) in the
nation's manufacturing sector. This probably reflects the relative capital
intensity of the sugar, cement, metal and other industries in the Surabaya
conurbation.
1.14      East Java today is the most populous Indonesian province (about 33
million), though its annual rate of population growth in the mid-1980s (about
1.4 percent) was far below that of Java (about 1.8 percent) and of the nation
41  Data in this section are mainly from (a) NUDS Final Report, Provincial
Reports. National Urban Development Strategy Project, DGCK/MPW and
UNCHSIUNDP, September 1985; (b) East Java - Bali Urban Development
ProJect: ProJect Preparation Report. October 1989 and March, 1990. East
Java -Bali Urban Development Project Task Force, Coordination Team for
Urban Development, Government of Indonesia, and Government of East Java;
and (c) Repelita V (Fifth Development Plan), 1989-1994, East Java
Province and Bali Province.



- 6 -
as a whole (about 2.1 percent). A low fertility rate and significant out-
migration are often cited as the explanation, with credit given to the
national family planning and transmigration programs. Out-migration has
exceeded in-migration by a factor of about three since the late 1970s, but
over half of the in-migrants have settled in urban areas.
1.15      Settlements.  The province's settlement structure is dominated by
the planning regior. of GERBANGKERTOSUSILA (a mnemonic for Gresik, Bankalan,
Mojokerto, Surabaya, Sidoarjo and Lamongan), which includes an urban
population of about 2.7 million or a third of the provincial urban population
of eight million. This is the most advanced of nine development regions used
as a basis for regional planning by the provincial government. Malang, to the
south, is the second largest incorporated municipality after Surabaya and the
major center of economic growth outside GERBANGKERTOSUSILA. Strong linkages
extend from Surabaya to the south toward Malang as well as the secondary
cities of Kediri, Madiun, Pasuruan and Probolinggo. Economic links to the
north and west through Gree4k along the north coast tend to be weaker.
Banyuwangi on the east coast is major port connecting Java with Bali. GOI's
policies to stimulate growth in the eastern islands are expected, if
successful, to induce significant increases in activity for this port.
1.16      Issues and Priorities.  Urban growth in East Java is expected to
continue at a far more rapid rate than the province as a whole, so that the
1990 urban population of about eight million will increase to about 12 million
by 2000. GERBANGKERTOSUSILA will increase to account for more than a third of
the total urban population and Malang about a tenth. Provincial development
policy emphasizes reduction of congestion in Surabaya; structuring of
development patterns in GERBANGKERTOSUSILA and giving priority to growth in
its subcenters; dispersal of key industrial and commercial activities to
Malang and other centers when possible; development of the Banyuwangi port and
related economic activities; and development of regional market and service
centers throughout the province. Within the urban sector agenda, priority
will be given to water supply where acceptable alternatives to piped supplies
are not available; alleviation of congestion and improvement of deteriorating
roads and bridges; improved management of human and solid waste; strengthened
O&M systems; increased local revenues; and upgraded local government
institutions. East Java's Fifth Five Year Plan makes explicit reference to
the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program (IUIDP) as the primary
program for improvement of urban infrastructure.
Bali
1.17      Background.  With a total population of only about 2.6 million
including an urban population of about 700 thousand, Bali is nevertheless
prominent nationally and internationally as a center of tourism and cultural
wealth. Its agricultural economy and society, which has for some years put
into intensive use virtually all cultivable land in the province, are of
particular note. Bali's fertile southern plain has for centuries provided the
best agricultural land and, more recently, provided most tourist attractions.
The central part of the island is mountainous, much of it uncultivable. The
northern areas include a relatively narrow plain between Gilimanuk and Kubu,
centered on the colenial capital, Buleleng, that is suitable for intensive
cultivation and urban development. In 1987, the trade and services sectors
(including tourism) accounted for about 46 percent of GRDP and agriculture



accounted for about 43 percent. Manufacturing lagged far behind at about 5
percent, though it is probably increasing rapidly at present (particularly
garments for export).
1.18      Population growth was lower, at about 1.7 percent per annum during
the 1970s, than Java (2.0 percent) or the nation as a whole (2.3 percent)
during the same period. Data for 1980-85 indicate a yet lower growth rate of
about 1.4 percent per annum, reflecting low rates of natural increase
encouraged by a successful family planning program based upon the traditional
"banjar" system of community management and organization, and substantial out-
migration. More than half of the in-migrants since 1970 appear to have
settled in Bali's urban areas, particularly in Badung Kabupaten and its
center, the administrative municipality (Kotip) of Denpasar.
1.19      Settlements.  Bali has a fine-grain network of small settlements
spread over the island, most of which are located in the southern half. The
system is dominated by Denpasar, which accounts for almost half of the
province's urban population and much of its substantial revenue from tourism.
Badung's local revenues are higher than any other kabupaten and all but four
kotamadyas in Indonesia. The main transport linkages extend east and west
along the southern coast with a weaker linkage to the northern coast. Urban
growth is likely to continue well above national and regional rates, while
total growth continue below those rates.  The chronic shortage of agricult  1l
land will continue to push farmers to other occupations and migration to
cities and other provinces.  Economic opportunities associated with the
tourist industry will, at the same time, pull rural Balinese to the cities.
1.20      Issues and Priorities.  The provincial government of Bali has
focused its development strategy on accommodating, and benefitting from, the
healthy and rapidly growing tourist industry while strengthening the hierarchy
of service centers throughout the island. Special attention would be given
tot (a) ensuring the availability of acceptable water supply with priority tp
current and potential tourist centers and full cost recovery; (b) provision W
adequately maintained roads and bridges with attention to relieving congestion
in Denpasar and the tourist centers of Sanur and Kuta; (c) improved management
of human and solid wastes, including possible installation of a small sewerage
scheme in Kuta; (d) increased local revenue collection and improved financial
management, with special focus on Badung Kabupaten; and (e) generally
strengthened urban institutional capacities. The initial impact of this
strategy is expected in the southern part of the island, but adequate
provision and management of infrastructure in the northern and central parts
can be expected to facilitate and accelerate the development there also.
Bali's Repelita V also makes reference to the need for diversification of
Badung/Denpasar's economic base which will require improved infrastructure
provision and management. As East Java, the Repelita V for Bali refers to
IUIDP as the framework for urban infrastructure improvement.



II. SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE
A. Government Stratesy
2.1       Faced with large deficiencies in urban infrastructure services and
fast growing urban populations, GOI's strategy emphasizes physical
infrastructure provision targets. These targets, describing the capacity of
water supply systems to be constructed, length of roads to be built,
percentage of population to be supplied with safe water, sanitation services,
etc., usually have a prominent place in the medium-term national development
plans. For example, in connection with the UN Drinking Water and Sanitation
Decade, GOI set the target of providing safe water supply to 75 percent of the
urban and 60 percent of the rural population by 1990 and asked for the help of
multi- and bilateral donor agencies. The latest estimates indicate that
36 percent of the rural and,46 percent of the urban population had access to
clean water in 1988, compared to 26 percent and 38 percent, respectively, in
1980.51 Even though targets were not achieved, this is still an impressive
performance in view of the almost 40 percent increase in the urban population
in that period. The main constraint has not been the availability of funds
but the capacity to prepare and implement projects. The government's response
-1iat has been (a) to develop standardized, mass delivery programs planned
he  Wecuted by the central government (but with operation and maintenance
responsibility at the local level) in order to reduce service deficiencies in
the short-run, and (b) to build up implementation capacity through local
government institutional strengthening, reinforced through decentralization,
as an important element of GOI's long-term strategy.
2.2       GOI has taken important strides toward reducing urban infrastructure
deficits and establishing a basis for improved sectoral management. The core
j rategy emphasizes integrated and deconcentrated/decentralized management of
07ban development. BAPPENAS has been designated to lead a high-level inter-
agency team (Tim Koordinasi - TKPP) representing the concerned agencies and
charge with responsibility for overall sector policy development and
coordination.
2.3       IUIDP.  The policy priorities for urban development in Indonesia
were articulated in the 1984 Urban Services Report (4800-IND) and the 1987
Public Resource Management Report (7007-IND), in particular i.s chapters on
O&M and local government finance. To address these priorities, the government
issued a Statement of Policies for Urban Development in 1987 which represented
a consolidated view of the principal constraints arising from, and the
objectives prescribed for, development in the sector. This Policy Statement,
which is incorporated in the current national five-year plan (Repelita V),
includes: (a) strengthening local governments to assume the leading role in
developing, operating and maintaining local services on a sustainable basis
over the long-term; (b) improving the planning and, programming of urban
infrastructure investments; (c) revising grant flows mobilizing local
revenues and optimizing their use; (d) implementing a coordinated financing
5I   See Indonesia Urban Services Sector Report, No. 4800-IND and Indonesia
Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report, No. 8034-IND.



- 9 -
system for the development and administration of local services; and (e)
strengthening the consultative process at various levels of government, with
emphasis on upgrading participation of local municipalities and districts.
The Policy Statement called for Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development
Programming (IUIDP) as an operational approach for achieving these objectives
in the context of typical local governments. The provincial five-year plan
for East Java and Bali (Repelita V Propinsi) refer explicitly to IUIDP as the
appropriate vehicle for overall improvement of the urban sector.
2.4       The Policy Statement, including IUIDP, was translated into an action
plan of institutional reforms and Improvements in local resource mobilization,
sector planning and financing arrangements which were incorporated explicitly
into the Urban Sector Loan (USL, Loan 2816-IND) and which, since then, has
provided a strategic framework to guide the focus and process of urban
development in Indonesia. In addition, with USL support, strategies were
formulated for the major urban service subsectors of water supply, drainage
and flood protection, human and solid wastes, roads and KIP.
2.5       Poverty reduction and regional balance in development are prominent
objectives of the current national medium term development plan (Repelita V).
Overall GOI strategy for regional development is still evolving, but specific
investment programs targeted to poorer areas and increased general resource
availability for regional governments through the INPRES grant transfer system
are the key building blocks. GOI strategy is to increase the use of the
INPRES grant channel to finance urban expenditures for which local governments
are responsible. This gives local governments more control over their
expenditure program by reducing grants-in-kind by central agencies.
2.6       Also under Repelita V, GOI has targeted the expansion of borrowing
by local water enterprises as a special priority. Recognizing the need for
operational guidelines to induce a higher level of credit financing, GOI has
adopted less conservative financial criteria for borrowing by local
governments and their enterprises (debt service coverage ratio of not less
than 1.5 for local government general fund operations and not less than 1.3
for local enterprises such as water supply PDAMs). This would bring the legal
borrowing capacity for local governments, particularly the large cities, more
in line with their considerably unused paying capacity.
2.7       The government's strategy is to move interest rates towards market
rates over the medium- to long-term. Given the substantial grant element in
the financing system for local services in Indonesia, the question of interest
rate must be viewed in the context of overall sector finances. Many local
governments have little or no experience with loan financing, having preferred
instead to rely on central government transfers in spite of the very low
(frequently twvo to four percent) or, in some cases zero, interest rate on
domestic loans for the vast majority of local governments. Only the nation's
largest cities have significant experience with interest rates in the range of
nine to twelve percent. There is a widespread concern in GOI that, unless the
interest rate applied is low, it will not be possible to induce local
governments and their enterprises to adopt a more active borrowing posture,
within prudent limits.
2.8       GOI has issued several regulations and policy clarifications to help
make the sector policy statement operational: (a) PP14 of September 1987



- 10 -
provides guidelines for classification of public works infrastructure
responsibilities for the central, provincial and local levels; (b) PP6 of June
1988 clarifies relations between regional offices (KANWILs) of MPW and
provincial public works departments (dinas) under the authority of the
provincial governors; (c) the Minister of Home Affairs' Surat Edaran P3KT
(IUIDP) of July 1988 explains IUIDP process and substance to all governors and
their steffs; (d) a t4HA instruction (Kepmen) is now being finalized to raise
provincial public works units by one level, from sub-dinas to dinas;
(e) another MHA Kepmen is under preparation to require higher level agencies
to coordinate more directly with sub-districts (kecamatans). Perhaps most
significantly, MPW has announced its intention to relocate about half of its
Headquarters staff to provincial and local governments (para. 1.4). GOI has
also undertaken a nationwide program for IUIDP preparation and implementation
with donor-supported teams working in all provinces and large citiess the
Bank in eleven provinces including Jakarta, the Asian Development Bank in ten
provinces, the Australian International development Assistance Bureau in four
provinces, Dutch aid in three provinces, Canadian International Development
Agency in two provinces and Swiss aid in one province (some overlapping, but
not with the Bank). The US Agency for International Development and the UK's
Overseas Development Administration, among other bilateral donors, are
addressing key financial and institutional dimensions of the strategy on a
nationwide basis. The UNDP and UNCHS have provided umbrella support for a
Central IUIDP Management Assistance Team (INS/85/005). This umbrella support
will be continued through mid-1994 under the IUIDP Implementation Support
Project (INS/88/014), which will also provide for improved coordination and
management of foreign assistance. Approximately 125 of the 301 local
governments have adopted IUIDP plans and, despite some delays, all donors are
proceeding with their respective IUIDP operations. Leadership is provided by
TKPP and the BAPPENAS-based IUIDP Implementation Management Group (IMG).
B. Bank Experience
2.9       Worldwide Experience in Water Supply.6/  The Bank has been
involved in this sector since the 19609. There has been relatively little
evolution in the Bank's approach. The scale of projects became larger and
many involved assiRtance to a number of smaller entities under one operation.
Some operations re.ied on intermediaries to exercise control over
implementation and to provide assistance to be the beneficiary entities. Many
operations aimed at the consolidation of water entities. While the majority
of projects provided substantial economic and health benefits, experience show
that (a) the achievement of institutional and cost recovery objectives has
been slow and difficult; (b) there are persistently high levels of
unaccounted-for-water; (c) there are delays iR project implementation due to
inadequate project preparation, slow land acquisition, cumbersome procurement
procedures; (d) inadequate attention is paid to the disposal of wastewater in
densely populated areas.
61   Based on OED 'Annual Review of Evaluation Results" in 1987, 1988, 1989
(Report Nos. 7404, 8164, 8970) and several project audit reports.



- 11 j-
2.10      Worldwide Experience in the Urban Sector.71  Bank involvement in
the urban sector started in the early 1970s with low cost investment projects
in shelter, water supply, sanitation and urban transport aimed at alleviating
urban poverty. Sites-and-services and slum upgrading projects were intended
to demonstrate replicable approaches that could provide benefits to the poor
while recovering costs and reducing the financial burden on the public sector.
Many of these projects have been reasonably successful in meeting physical
objectives, but they have not had an impact on the policies of national and
local governments and on the issues of managing the urban economy. The policy
dialogue between the Bank and governments focussed on physical aspects and
some institutional issues but there was insufficient attention to the broader
policy framework such as intergovernmental fiscal relations. More
importantly, because many urban programs did not achieve sustainable policy
reform and institutional development, the projects were generally not
replicable. In only a few cases, such as the Kampung Improvement Program in
Jakarta, have citywide impacts been achieved. Like water supply, urban
operations also experienced substantial implementation delays due to
insufficient project preparation and very ambitious implementation timetables.
2.11      Experience in Indonesia.   Generally, Bank experience confirms that
(a) the combination of limited planning and implementation capacity at the
central level and the difficulties inherent in providing essentially local
services by central government departments decreases the efficiency of mass
delivery programs; (b) capacity building at the local level is a long-term
process that mu- be accompanied by an increase in local responsibility and
accountability; and, (c) central-local financial relations need to develop in
the direction or more local government autonomy. As summarized in Table 1
below, the Bank has financed six completed and eight ongoing urban and water
supply projects in Indonesia since 1974, touching more than fifty local
governments and many of their water enterprises. Urban lending operations in
Indonesia have progressed from demonstration projects in Jakarta through more
programmatic investments in selected other large cities, still limited in
geographic and subsectoral scope, to sector lending within an agreed policy
and institutional framework. Water supply projects initially covered only a
few cities, but later, like Bank projects in other countries, assisted a large
number of urban settlements under one operation.
2.12      Multi-subsector urban development projects, Urban I-V (Loans 1040,
1336, 1653, 1972 and 2408-IND), provided substantial assistance for
deconcentrated programs of low-cost micro-infrastructure (KIP), city-wide
drainage and solid waste management in eleven major cities. They also
assisted development of GOI's low-income housing program, -,ow supported under
the Housing Sector Loan (2725-IND), and several import"..it institutional
initiatives, including local government finance, planning and programming,
O&M, and land information. Separate sub-sectoral programs in water supply,
sewerage and urban transport have been supported by seven loans to date. The
first two such loans (1049 and 1709-IND) helped in the development of water
sector organization and financing policies. Under subsequent projects in East
71   Based on OED reports mentioned above, on draft PRE Report "Urban Policy
and Economic Development. an Agenda for the 1990s", dated November 30,
1990 and also on PRE Report "FY89 Sector Review Urban Development
Operations", Report No. INU-OR3.



- 12 -
Java (Loans 2275 and 2632-IND) water sector development was emphasized and
deconcentration of implementation capacity was introduced to increase the
program scale and pace. Loan 2236-IND (Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation) has
sought to implement pilot human waste disposal projects and strengthen waste
disposal institutions in Jakarta. Two recent loans (2817 and 2932-IND) focus
on urban transport sector development in Indonesia's five largest cities,
emphasizing least-cost traffic and public transport solutions and local
institutional development. The combined experience of these projects is
reflected in the Urban Sector Loan (2816-IND) and also in the Second and Third
JABOTABEK Urban Development Projects which focus, respectively, on water
resources and kampung improvement in the Jakarta metropolitan area.
Table 1. URBAN AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECTS IN INDONESIA
Loan      Fiscal Year           Project Name            Original      PPARJPCR
No.    Effective  Closed                                  Loan    Rep. No.  Year
1040     1975     1931    Jakarta Urban Development        25.00    4620    1983
1049     1975     1982    Five Cities Water Supply         14.50    6256    1986
1336     1977     1984    Second Urban Development         52.50    6329    1986
1653     1979     1987    Third Urban Development          54.00    8583    1990
1709     1981     1987    Second Water Supply              36.00    8622    1990
1972     1982     1988    Fourth Urban Development         43.00    8583    1990
2236     1983             Jakarta Sewerage/Sanitation    22.40
2275     1983             East Java Water Supply           30.60
2408     1984             Fifth Urban Development          39.25
2632     1986              Second E. Java Water Supply    43.30
2725     1986             Housing Sector Loan             200.00
2816     1987             Urban Sector Loan               270.00
2817     1987              Reg. Cities Urban Transport    51.00
2932     1988             Jabotabek Urban Development   150.00
3219     1990              Second Jabotabek Urban Dev.   190.00*
3246     1991              Third Jabotabek Urban Dev.      61.00*
1,282.55
* not yet effective as of December 31, 1990.
2.13      Completed Prolects.  Of the six loans closed to date, four have been
evaluated by the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department. Urban III and IV
were combined in one project completion report. The issues and lessons from
these reports are discussed below.
2.14      Water Supply.  While about one million people received improved
water supply due to the two projects, the project performance audit reports
(No. 6256 and 8622) emphasized the following problemss (a) substantial delays
in project implementation were caused by inadequate preparation, especially by
the late preparation of detailed designs (after the loans became effective);
(b) over-optimistic water d-nand and unaccounted-for-water projections and
underestimated production costs led to the inability of the water enterprises
to fulfill (too ambitious) financial covenants and difficulties in servicing



- 13 -
debt; (c) inadequate attention was given to institutional development and
management of technical assistance. For the initial group (Batch I) of
localities in the proposed project, detailed designs have been prepared in
advance, the availability of alternative water sources and the forecast levels
of water tariffs have been taken into account in water demand projections, and
similar analyses will be completed for all other participating water systems
during the project. Also, technical assistance will be managed on a regional
basis, close to the sites where the project is implemented.
2.15      Urban Projects.  According to the project performance audit reports
(No. 4620 and 6329), the civil works included in the first two urban projects
were completed according to appraisal schedules. However, considerable delays
were experienced in the selection and appointment of consultants, therefore
the loan closing dates had to be extended by three years to complete the
technical assistance components (for institutional development on the national
level and preparation of subsequent projects). Water supply components under
the kampung improvement programs experienced the same problem as the free
standing water supply projects, that is, the water demand projections were
over-optimistic and willingness to pay for the piped water was less than
expected where alternative groundwater sources existed. The need for formal
maintenance arrangements was noted and it was proposed that the maintenance
issue should be addressed more carefully in future projects. The proposed
project includes both maintenance expendituras and institution capacity
building for O&M.
2.16      The combined Project Completion Report (PCR) for the most recently
completed urban projects (Urban III, 1653-lND; and Urban IV, 1972-IND)
highlighted the following issues and priorities of urban development in
Indonesia: (a) successful project implementation requires local participation
and visible leadership by the chief executive (bupati or mayor) of the local
government; (b) operations and maintenance budgets and institutional
capacities are inadequate and must be improved at all levels; (c) coordinated
planning and programming of urban infrastructure is essential; (d) improved
local resource mobilization is necessary for sustaining urban development
programs; and (e) decentralization of urban development program implementation
requires strengthened municipal management, technical staff capacities and
operational systems. Some of the functional requirements and policy reform
options to address these issues are now being explored under the ongoing Urban
V project (Loan 2408-IND) and the USL (Loan 2816-IND) on a national basis (see
below). The need for coordinated infrastructure planning was the key to the
development of the IUIDP concept, which will be implemented under the East
Java - Bali Urban Development Project.
2.17      Beneficiary households and communities are involved routinely in the
identification, participation and implementation of KIP neighborhood
improvement programs that have been supported under Bank loans for more than
ten years. Market neighborhood improvement (MIIP) programs have a similar
participatory base. GOI's successful solid waste management and sanitation
programs also rely on participation of beneficiary households and communities,
and have received increasing support under the Urban III, IV and V projects.
On-site sanitatior schemes introduced under the Urban V project, for example,
emphasize household financing and the use of NGOs for community management of
implementation. Water supply investments supported by the Bank now require
assessment of cost recovery potential from the beneficiary households; road



- 14 -
Investments must be based upon specific road-user needs; drainage investments
emphasize needs expressed by communities subject to flooding. Most
importantly, the overall infrastructure planning (IUIDP) process supported by
GOI and the Bank is designed to upgrade the effective role of local
participationt (a) to start planning and decision processes at a level low
enough in government so that beneficiaries can participate directly; (b) to
start early enough in the budget process so that adequate attention can be
provided to subproject design in meeting beneficiary needs; (c) to place
increased emphasis on local responsibility for O&M, and (d) to take advantage
of local human resource and institutional capacities through the entire
project cycle.
2.18      The Sector Loan.  Performance of the USL in supporting priority
expenditures and increasing disbursements in the sector has been satisfactory.
Provision of counterpart financing through the USL enabled Indonesia to expand
sector expenditures in keeping with (if not yet achieving) the recommendations
of the Bank's Urban Services Sector Report. Progress in institutionalization
of IUIDP has been good in most provinces and preliminary assessments indicate
that progress is being made in local resource mobilization. However,
implementation of the financial policy agenda under the USL has lacked clear
direction and has not been coordinated effectively. A new draft law on local
taxes has been prepared for legislative action, for example, but little
progress has taken place to clarify the incentive framework for local fiscal
and financial management through measures to rationalize the system of grants
and to articulate the policies for financing of local infrastructure.
2.19      East Java and Bali.  The Urban Sector Loan and eight Bank-financed
urban projects to date have involved parts of East Java and Bali (four multi-
subsector projects, three water supply projects and one urban transport
project). Experience with these projects has generally been good, though
limited to the provincial capital cities of Surabaya and Denpasar and some
twenty five water enterprises in other local governments. Most physical
targets have been achieved, and in some cases surpassed; there has been
compliance with most loan covenants, despite some delays and problems with
financial covenants in the case of water enterprises; project implementation
and monitoring systems have steadily improved; outright mistakes (such as use
of inappropriate designs for small water supply schemes for subdistrict
headquarters) have been corrected; a fruitful dialogue with concerned local
and central government officials has been maintained and strengthened;
collaboration with the provincial governments has been initiated, and there
has been significant progress in overall human resource and institutional
development.
C. Bank Strategy
2.20      The Bank seeks to assist in implementing broad urban sector policies
codified by GOI in its Urban Sector Policy Statement of 1987 and Five-Year
Development Plan for 1989-1994. The Bank strategy mirrors the government
strategy with emphasis on (a) improving service levels in a regionally
balanced fashion and particularly for the poor; (b) impro;ing urban
productivity and the effectiveness of investments through better
infrastructure planning and programming, especially at the city level and
through enhanced local government capacity for fiscal management, revenue



- 15 -
mobilization, project implementation and O&M; (c) improving the urban
environment by enhancing local government capacity to plan, implement and
operate infrastructure in an environmentally sound fashion and also by
enhancing community participation. The strategy responds to the experience of
ongoing Bank projects, in particular to problems encountered with regard to
project preparation and implementation capacity. It recognizes the limits to
central government mass delivery of urban services and stresses the importance
of building capacity at local level to plan, implement and operate urban
service.
2.21      Improving service levels and urban management capacity.  Having
contributed to the formulation of GOI's sector strategy through the 1984 Urban
Services Sector Report (4800-IND, 1984) and subsequent studies under the Urban
IV and Urban V projects, the Bank supports the integrated infrastructure
programming and decentralization approach adopted by GOI as the optimal way to
address urban sector issues in Indonesia and, in the long run, the solution to
the implementation capacity problem. Based on experience gained under the six
completed and eight ongoing urban projects, the Bank strategy recognizes that
implementation of this approach depends on the institutional capacity of
individual local governments and local water enterprises. In parts of the
country where institutional constraints are less pronounced it is possible to
establish provincial intermediation capacities, programmatic Bank lending and
high levels of cost recovery. In other less develeped parts of the country
such as East Indonesia, where local capacity is less developed, regular
project lending is more appropriate and cost recovery is more difficult. The
Bank strategy recognizes that regionally balanced development is a legitimate
concern of GOI and development of urban areas in the Eastern part of the
country is necessary to achieve that. The Second Water Supply, Urban III and
Urban V projects demonstrated that well prepared, traditional project type
interventions restricted to a few urban areas could help GOI improve delivery
of urban infrastructure services in areas with weak current management
capacities.
2.22      The Bank agrees with GOI that increased access to infrastructure
services, especially for the poor, is an important objective. However, there
is no simple solution to the problem of institutional capacity constraints and
attempts to mass deliver standardized systems are fraught with problems.
Inflexibility in design leads to solutions ill adapted to local circumstances,
low willingness to pay by the consumers and lack of funds and institutional
capability for maintenance. This is a very high price to pay and may hinder
the achievement of another equally important objective, the maximum
contribution from urban infrastructure to the economic development of the
cities. Therefore, while the Bank strategy supports targeted interventions to
increase access for the poor (e.g., subsidized water standpipe and kampung
improvement programs),  it also emphasizes the importance of long-term
programs to enhance the capacity of local governments and communities to
implement and finance infrastructure projects and maintain the assets created.
Provision of the proper financial and managerial incentives for the local
governments for improved implementation and maintenance performance is another
equally important aspect of the strategy.
2.23      Financing of urban development.  Based on the Bank's experience that
local services are mast effectively provided when responsibility and
accountability lies with competent local governments, Bank strategy aims at



- 16 -
increasing the importance of local government resources in financing urban
infrastructure services. Therefore, the Bank supports measures that increase
local revenues, especially the reform of the system of local government taxes
and charges, and increase prudent borrowing by local governments. The system
of a multitude of local government taxes with very limited revenue base and
yield should be overhauled. Also, local governments should be encouraged to
establish pricing policies ca an increasingly cost recoverable basis, thereby
enabling available grants to be targeted to the neediest regions with less
potential for local resource mobilization, thus supporting the Government's
regional equity objectives. If GOI's Repelita V strategy of increasing the
relative importance of credit in the sector succeeds, it will help encourage
more efficient allocation of resources within the sector. However, an
interest rate which is well below market rates (currently 18 - 20 percent
annually) maintains a degree of interest rate segmentation which could inhibit
the ability of the sector to mobilize loan funds from domestic savings in the
long-run. The Bank therefore supports a program geared to measured progress
towards market-related rates of lending to local governments and enterprises.
2.24      The Bank also recognizes that infrastructure deficiencies are large
and the financial capability of local governments is limited, so central
government grants will continue to be an important source of financing for
urban infrastructure. In order to avoid inefficiencies experienced in the
past, improvement of the grant system is desirable by making it less
fragmented and more equalizing, predictable and discretionary for the
recipient local governments. The superior financial resources of the central
government coupled with superior implementation capacity led to the important
role played by the grants-in-kind support. Grants-in-kind for services under
the responsibility of local governments have, however, been eliminated under
the approved financing arrangements described in Chapter 3. The Bank supports
a strategy which gradually limits Central Government direct involvement only
to services classified as national responsibilities e.g., national roads in
urban areas.
2.25      Lending Strategy.  The Bank's strategy is to (a) move toward
programmatic lending operations for selected areas (e.g., East Java and Bali)
with adequate institutional capacities, which could serve as models for
provinces and cities nationwide; and (b) carry out more traditional project
lending with a more focused approach on some subsectors where either the
institutional capacities are too weak for programmatic lending (e.g., most of
eastern Indonesia) or subsectoral requirements are so large and complex that
they are best dealt with individually (e.g., metro Jakarta).
2.26      Programmatic Lending.  Through programmatic lending, as under the
proposed project, the Bank would provide financing for time-slices of multi-
subsector urban expenditure programs for local kotamadya (municipal) and
kabupaten (district) governments. The subsectoral and geographic scopes of
such operations would be wider than in traditional urban project lending, and
the Bank would rely more on intermediary institutions. There would be more
attention to detail of specific subprojects and delivery mechanisms than is
possible in sector lending, however, and sector policy and nationwide action
plans could not be emphasized to the same extent. The programmatic approach
would facilitate the Bank's involvement in large numbers of typical local
governments. It would also help to facilitate the many transitions required
to carry out GOI's long term policies of deconcentration, co-administration



- 17 -
and decentralization. The central government role would gradually become
mainly one of providing overall program guidance and technical assistance to
the lower level governments; provincial governments would gradually assume
more responsibility for assisting smaller local governments in project
identification, preparation, appraisal of subproject proposal", and monitoring
of their implementation; local governments would become increasingly
responsible for project identification, preparation, implementation and O&M.
The transition would be gradual, and there would be considerable differentia-
tion among regions depending upon institutional capacities for change. The
Bank's strategy would therefore require every effort to adapt loan processing
and supervision to existing GOI planning and implementation systems and
capacities. Few if any new GOI policies would be required, and projects would
rely as much as possible upon existing institutions (e.g., the provincial and
local BAPPEDA planning agencies) and processes (e.g., the RAKORBANG budget
consultstion process beginning at the community level). Radical improvements
in loca:. government capacities, in particular, would not be anticipated during
the short or medium (five-year) term. Moreover, the expenditure programs to
be financed would not differ radically in size or overall composition from
comparabln programs that have already been delivered (albeit with more
reliance on experienced central government agencies).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Pro3ect Origin and Formulation
3.1       The proposed project has been under discussion since 1980, during
implementation of the Urban III project (Loan 1653-IND) and preparation of the
Urban IV project (Loan 1972-IND). At that time, it was envisioned that a
future Urban V project would focus on the province of East Java and include
its capital (Surabaya, a city included in the Urban III Project) along with a
large number of its secondary cities. As preparation of the proposed East Java
project moved forward, however, it became clear that the central and
provincial governments could not agree on an appropriate division of
responsibility and authority. The Governor decided that he did not want to be
responsible for a province-wide project unless the provincial and local
governments could play a stronger implementation role than was at that time
acceptable to the central government. As a result, the Urban V project scope
was changed to focus on a straightforward continuation of the Urban III
project and infrastructure investment in its four large cities, including
Surabaya. The central and provincial governments agreed that Bank financing
under this project could be provided mainly through subsidiary 1.oans which
would automatically give the lead decision roles to regional governments as
the ultimate borrowers. Preparation of a province-wide project was suspended,
however, and did not begin again until 1987.
3.2       The proposal of a province-wide urban project for East Java extended
to include the neighboring Bali province, was revived in the immediate context
of GOI's 1987 Urban Policy Statement, in particular its call for improved
planning of urban infrastructure and service delivery through the IUIDP
process. GOI identified East Java and Bali as the most appropriate provinces
for testing and implementation of the full "IUIDP approach," as it would be



- 18 -
called, given their urban infrastructure needs and relatively well developed
provincial and local government institutions. Similar, but in most cases more
limited, applications of the approach would then be attempted in other
provinces and selected kotamadya municipalities with support of the Bank and
other donors. The Bank was considered as the logical source of support for an
East Java - Bali project given its commitment to the Policy Statement through
the Urban Sector Loan and its experience under past and on-going urban project
operations in the two provinces. From the Bank's view, the IUIDP approach was
seen as a logical first step in program lending that could expand its role to
cover whole provinces and all seven of the urban subsectors in single
operations. While mostly successful, the Bank's earlier and ongoing project
operations in East Java and Bali have only covered small numbers of local
governments and individual subsectors or small clusters of subsectors.
3.3       Funding under the Urban Sector Loan (Loan 2816-IND) and UNDP's IUIDP
Advisory Support Project (INS/851005) was provided in 1987 to introduce the
IUIDP approach in East Java and Bali and to prepare a project suitable for
financing under a Bank loan. A nationwide IUIDP training program was initiated
at about the same time with support from the USL and the Government of the
Netherlands, though its implementation in East Java and Bali was delayed until
late 1988. Introduction of the IUIDP approach proved to be more difficult
than originally hoped, though from the beginning there was steady progress and
widespread recognition that detailed preparation of a possible project should
not (indeed could not) be rushed. All parties learned a great deal and are
still learning. It is worth highlighting thats (a) central government
participants have become significantly more aware of the need to understand
urban infrastructure and service issues from the local government perspective;
(b) those responsible for individual subsectors have learned that they cannot
work successfully in isolation from other subsectors; and (c) multisectoral
planners have been reminded that comprehensive plans are useless if they are
not carried through to detail at the subproject level.
B. Prolect Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.4       Project Objectives.  The fundamental objective of the proposed proj-
ect would be to improve the quality of urban infrastructure investment and
service delivery in East Java and Bali. Operational objectives would be to:
(a) support urban infrastructure investment (including .ehabilitation) in up
to 45 local governments in East Java and Bali, including a limited expansion
of the water distribution system in the City of Surabaya;8/ (b) improve
urban infrastructure expenditure programming, financial planning and
information management for these local governments; (c) encourage local
revenue generation, improve financial management and, more generally,
strengthen local government human resources and institutions including
capacities for more effective community participation and environmental
management; and (d) assist sector development nationwide, including
preparation of future projects.
3.5       Rationale.  The proposed project deserves the Bank's fullest support
insofar as it (a) supports the urban sector strategies of GOI and the Bank;
8/   Other investments in Surabaya City would be covered under the proposed
Surabaya Urban Development Project (FY92 lending program).



- 19 -
(b) provides financing for types of subprojects serving both economic and
social needs that have been confirmed to be feasible and beneficial in a wide
variety of SOI and Bank experiences in these two provinces with capable
governments known well to the Bank; (c) provides for improved programming and
implementation of such subprojects in a manner that should lead to greater net
benefits in the future, primarily by involving local governments and
beneficiaries more directly and by increasing the transparency of urban
resource allocation decisions; (d) introduces the full IUIDP-based program
lending approach to the urban sector in Indonesia and the prospect of Bank
assistance for urban development on a "wholesale," multi-city and multi-
subsectoral basis; and (e) offers GOI and the Bank their first opportunity to
test and develop the full IUIDP approach that will be a model for evaluation
and a reference for other provinces.
C. Proiect Description
3.6       Project Components.  There would be three principal componentss
(a)  Infrastructure Developent, Rehabilitation and 0&M.  This component
represents about Rp. 647.0 billion ($340.2 million equivalent) or
94 percent of total project costs, providing the core of five-year
urban infrastructure expenditure programs for the 45 participating
local governments, including a limited expansion of the water
distribution system for the City of Surabaya. Financing would be
provided for urban infrastructure expenditure programs covering
seven subsectors in up to 36 of the 37 local governments in East
Java and all eight in Balis civil works and equipment for water
supply, urban roads, kampung improvement, market infrastructure
improvement, solid waste management, drainage and sanitation. O&H
expenditures of Rp 183.0 billion ($96.3 million equivalent) would be
included in the expenditure programs, but would not be financed by
the Loan. Contracted engineering costs have been included,
amounting to Rp 24.9 billion ($13.1 million equivalent or 6 percent
of total investment costs). The expenditure programs and supporting
financing plans would cover the five-year period beginning with
60I's PY91/92.
(b) Program Management. This component represents about Rp 25.5 billion
($13.4 million equivalent) or four percent of total project costs.
The project would be managed and implemented by existing structural
agencies at the central, provincial and local levels of government.
In order to achieve the project's objectives, however, several of
these agencies will require technical assistance, task-specific
training and equipment. All expenditures under this component would
be essential for physical implementation of the project. They would
support:
(i) further program and subproject prepsration; and
(ii) management of program implementation.
(c) Institutional Development. This component would include two sub-
components.



- 20 -
(i) Municipal management improvement. This sub-component
represents about Rp 6.5 billion, ($3.4 million equivalent) or
about one percent of total project cost. It would support
implementation of on-going national management improvement
programs in East Java and Balis
a. revenue administration reform;
b. local government financial accounting and management and
reform;
c. Environmental assessment (AMDAL) institutional development;
and
d. IUIDP training
(ii) Sector Development. This sub-component represents about Rp 6.7
billion ($3.5 million equivalent) or one percent of total
project cost. It would support sector development activities
that are important from a national perspective:
a. co-financing of the UNDPIUNCHS-executed IUIDP
Implementation Support Project (INS/89/014); and
b. preparation of future projects that cannot otherwise be
financed.
D. Project Costs
3.7       The total project cost, as summarized in Table 1 below and in Annex
1, is estimated at Rp 685.4 billion ($360.5 million equivalent) including
contingencies of Rp 144.5 billion ($76.0 million equivalent), taxes of Rp 47.4
billion ($24.9 equivalent), and land acquisition of Rp 11.0 billion ($5.8
million equivalent). Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated
at Rp 235.1 billion ($123.5 million) or about 34 percent of total project
costs. Base costs are estimated as of January 1991. Physical contingencies
are estimated at 10 percent for civil works and equipment. Price contingen-
cies are estimated at 6 percent per annum for domestic costs and for foreign
costs at 3.2 percent for 1991 and thereafter. Price contingencies total Rp
110.4 billion ($58.1 million equivalent) or 19 percent of base costs plus
physical contingencies. In addition to the project cost, interest during
construction (IDC) on regional borrowing financed by the Bank's Loan would be
about Rp 19.0 billion ($10.0 million equivalent) and IDC on other loans would
be about Rp 5.5 billion ($2.9 million equivalent). Land acquisition costs are
included in the base costs. Detailed cost estimates a:e provided in Annex 1.
Table 1 below summarizes project costs by component and subcomponent. A more
highly aggregated summary is presented in the top rows of Table 2 as the
expenditure program to be financed under the proposed project.



- 21 -
Table 1t PROJECT COST SUMMARY
RtP LIIoIn            S mlilion          U
Local Foreign Total Lncal Foreign Totnl Total Cost
A. Program Infrastructure Developmnt and DIM
1. Water Supply La                    102.1   81.4  188.6  58.7   42.8   90.6    26.8
2. Drainage                            81.6  128.6   45.1  18.6    2.1   28.7    6.6
8. Solid Waste Management              18.6    6.6   26.8   9.7    8.6   18.8      8.7
4. Sanitatlon/Seweraes                 12.6    5.4   17.9   6.6    2.8    9.4      2.6
5. Urban Roads                        118.6   60.9  169.6  62.3   26.8   89.1   24.7
6. K MPU"g Improveent                  14.4    6.2   20.6   7.6    8.8   10.9      8.0
7  Market Infrastructure Improvement    1.6    0.6    2.1   0.6    0.8    1.1      0.8
Subtotal Program Infrastructure
Investment /b                    209.2  164.8  484.0 1L7.    86.7  244.0   87.7
S. OAM Current level                   96.2   84.4  180.6  60.6   18.1   68.7   19.1
9. ON, Increment on new Infrastructure   86.6   16.7   62.4  18.7    8.8   27.6    7.6
Subtotal OCM                       181.7   51.1  182.8  cs.   2N.J   96.2   26.7
Subtotal Investment and OM           480.9  216.9  646.6 226.6  118.6  840.2    94.4
8. Program Management                      14.8   11.2   25.5   7.6    5.9   18.4    8.7
C. Institutional Development
1. Municipal Management Improvement     4.0    2.5 b   .6   2.1    1.8    8.4    0.9
2. Sector Development                   1.4    6.2    6.6   0.8    2.7    8.6    1.0
Subtotal Institutionw  Development      5.4    7.7   18. 1   2.9    4.0    6.9     1.9
Total Project Cost                    450.6  284.8  685.4 287.0  128.5  860.5   100.0
Interest During Construction on
Bank Loan                             0.0   19.0   19.0   0.0   10.0   10.0
Interest During Construction on
other Loans                           6.5    0.0    5.6   2.9    0.0    2.9
Total -Fnancina Raguired              466.1  258.8  709.9 289.9  188.6  878.4
/  Includes $18.1 million for Usbulan Springs distribution pipeworks In Kotamadys Surabays.
Includes 818.1 million for contracted engineering design and supervision.
3.8        Costs were estimated mainly on the basis of local expenditure
programs which, in turn, were based upon standard unit costs and detail at the
preliminary engineering level for representative subprojects and O&M in a
first batch of 13 local governments (nine in East Java and four in Bali) and
identification-level detail for a second batch (15 in East Java and four in
Bali). These two batches cover about seventy-five percent of the urban
population of East Java, excluding Surabaya, and all urban residents of Bali
(see Annex 8). Estimates have also been checked against unit costs incurred
in similar subprojects financed by the Bank under similar conditions in
Indonesia. These indicators were also used to include an indicative amount in
the expenditure program for a third batch of 12 local governments in East
Java, including the City of Malang.



- 22 -
E. Financing Plan
3.9       The total financing requirement is Rp 709.9 billion ($373.4 million
equivalent) including interest during construction of Rp 24.5 billion ($2.9
million equivalent). The proposed Bank loan of $180.3 million would finance
48.3 percent of this total, or about 69.1 percent of the project cost net of
identifiable taxes, duties, current O&M and interest during construction. The
loan and a Japanese grant of $4.2 million equivalent would cover all foreign
exchange costs estimated at $123.5 million equivalent and local costs of
$61.0 million equivalent. Counterpart funding would be provided by the
central government ($27.0 million equivalent), provincial governments
($13.1 million equivalent), local governments ($72.5 million equivalent),
water enterprises ($69.4 million equivalent) and private sector contributions
($6.9 million equivalent). The Bank loan includes a Project Preparation
Facility Advance of $1.5 million and retroactive financing estimated at
$2 million covering consultancy services and early FY91/92 infrastructure
costs. Annex 2 provides details of the financing plan. A summary of the com-
bined expenditure program and financing plan is provided in Table 2.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations regarding timely provision of
counterpart funds, which would also be specified in Program Implementation
Agreements to be executed by the central, provincial and local governments
(para. 4.9).
3.10      Cofinancing.  Cofinancing of Yen 607.5 million (Rp 7.6 billion or
$4.2 million equivalent) has been provided by a grant of the Government of
Japan signed April 19, 1990, for consultancy services required during the
final stages of project preparation and during the early years of project
implementation.
3.11      Lending to Local Governments and Water Enterprises.  Of the
financing contributions by local governments and water enterprises,
respectively, about Rp 23.5 and Rp 91.0 billion ($12.4 and $47.9 million
equivalent), would be borrowed from the central government.91   Central GOI
would bear the foreign exchange risk and the risk of interest rate variation.
The loans would be made for varying periods keyed to the economic life of each
investment (up to 20 years) including up to five years of grace. Individual
loans would be at fixed interest, but the interest rate would be progressively
moved closer to market rates by applying an indexed rate system (described in
para. 5.19) over the life of the project. Interest and commitment charges
would be payable during the grace period. Section C of Chapter V provides a
description of the agreed central government lending arrangements.
3.12      Regional Financing.  About Rp 422.3 billion ($222.1 million
equivalent) or 59 percent of the total financing requirement is indicated as
being financed from regional level resources. Included in these figures are
interest during construction of Rp 16.0 billion ($8.4 million) on water
enterprise borrowing and Rp 5.1 billion ($2.7 million ) on local government
91   This includes Rp 10 billion ($5.6 million equivalent) already being
borrowed in FY91192 by Kotamadya Malang's water enterprise from the
central government that will not be financed under the proposed loan. It
also includes Rp 23.4 billion ($12.3 million equivalent) borrowing by
PDAM Surabaya for the Umbulan Springs distribution pipelines.



- 23 -
Table 2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN SUMMARY
Rp      $      Percent   Percent
Billion  Million  Project    Loan
Regional Level Financing
Local Governments
Borrowing                                    23.5    12.4      3.3
Local Revenues and Property Tax Share /a   88.2    46.4    12.4
INPRES Development Grants                    45.1    23.7      6.4
SDO Routine Staff Salary Grant                4.6     2.4      0.6
Water Enterprises
Borrowing for Investment /b                  91.0    47.9    12.8
Internal Finance for InveiiEment /c          31.6    16.6      4.5
Internal Finance for O&M                    100.2    52.7    14.1
Provincial Government Direct Funding           24.8    13.1      3.5
Private Sector Contributions                   13.1     6.9      1.8
Subtotals Regional Level                      422.3   222.1    59.5
Central Level Financing
Central Level Responsibilities Ld             143.3    75.4    20.2
Regional Level Responsibilities               144.3    75.9    20.3
Subtotal: Central Level                       287.6   151.3    40.5
TOTAL FINANCING le                         709.9   373.4   100.0
Donor Funding
Bank Loan (69.12 Eligible Amount) If          342.8   180.3    48.3
Japanese Grant                                  8.0     4.2      1.1
Subtotal                                      350.8   184.5    49.4       100.0
Distributed As
Subsidary Loans
Water Enterprises                          72.9    38.4                21.3
Local Governments                          21.2    11.1                 6.2
Central Grants-in-kind
Central Responsibilities                  112.4    59.1                30.4
Regional Responsibilities                 144.3    75.9                42.1
Regional Level Domestic Funding                307.8   161.9
Central GOI Domestic Funding                    51.3    27.0
TOTAL /e                                    709.9   373.4
la   Including borrowing interest during construction of Rp 5.1 billion ($2.7
million equivalent).
lb   Including Rp 23.4 billion ($12.3 million equivalent) borrowing by PDAM
Surabaya for Umbulan Springs distribution pipeworks.
/c   Including Rp 16.0 billion ($8.4 million equivalent) for interest on borrowing
during construction.
/d   Including Rp 3.4 billion ($1.8 million equivalent) interest luring
construction (for domestic loan to PDAM Malang).
/e   Icluding interest during construction of Rp 24.5 billion ($12.9 million
equivalent).
If   For Bank loan calculation, eligible amount is total cost less taxes and
duties, current O&M, land acquisition and interest during construction
(Rp 213.5 billion or $112.3 million equivalent).
tE   Includes $4.2 million equivalent of Japan Grant Funds to GOI.



- 24 -
borrowing. These resources include water enterprise charges to consumers,
second level regional government taxes, assigned revenues, service charges and
other local revenues, contributions from the provincial government budgets,
and private sector-sourced funding (principally relating to contributions of
land and repayments to the proposed local small credit schemes for the
financing of on-site sanitation infrastructure). Finance from the normal
central government routine SDO and INPRES general development grants is also
counted because the uses of these formula-driven grants are substantially
under local control. Borrowings by water enterprises and regional governments
are also included under this heading. The borrowing figures for the regional
governments include the sums needed for the initial capitalization of the
proposed small scale credit schemes for on-site sanitation and possible loan
finance for other parts of the second level regional governments investment
programs (notably in the solid waste and KIP subcomponents).
3.13      Central Government Non-Repayable Financing.  These contributions
constitute that part of the expenditure program to be funded from central GOI
sources, excluding loans and formula-driven routine and the normal general
development grants to regional APBD budgets. Of the total central non-
repayable financing of Rp 287.6 billion ($151.3 million equivalent), about
Rp 139.9 billion ($72.9 million equivalent) is for infrastructure and
consultancy which is classified as a central government responsibility. These
central agency allocations are known popularly as APBN DIP (national project)
funds and are distinguished in practical terms by having central government
staff as project managers (PIMPROs) responsible for signing contracts. The
amount of the central contribution which supports regional government respon-
sibilities is some Rp 144.3 billion ($75.9 million equivalent). These
contributions will be channeled to local governments through a special ISPABP'
mechanism under the authority of Presidential Instruction and will enter local
government budgets as special grants for the EJUDP project. The subproject
components financed with SPABP transfer will be managed by staff of the
regional governments themselves. Of the total central GOI non-repayable
financing, the Bank loan would finance about 89 percent or Rp 256.7 billion
($135.0 million equivalent).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Responsibilities
4.1       Central Agencies.  Operational policy coordination and guidance for
the project would be provided by The Urban Development Coordination Team
(TKPP, composed of director-general level officials), with the assistance of
the IUIDP Implementation Management Group (IMG, composed of directorate-chief
level officials) and its UNCHS-executed IUIDP Implementation Support Project
(INS/89/014). BAPPENAS chairs TKPP and IMG, and is responsible for daily
management of INSl891014. Key members of TKPP and IMG are MPW, MHA and MOF.
Agencies such as a Ministry of Communications, National Land Agency and
Ministry of State for Administrative Reform may join TKPP and/or IMG in the
course of project implementation, though their direct participation is not
crucial.



- 25 -
4.2       Overall responsibility for technical supervision and management of
the proposed project in Central GOI would be assumed by DGCK, which would take
the lead role in management of components and subcomponents under its own
specific responsibility (as would DGBM) 101 and in ensuring (through TKPP
and IMG) that other agencies at all levels perform their own roles adequately.
DGCK would be assisted in carrying out this responsibility by the IMG-based
INS189/014 Project and by the DGCK-based Central Project Management Office
(CPMO) and Central Project Finance Office (CPFO). Established under earlier
urban projects financed by the Bank and other donors, the CPMO would be
responsible for monitoring all program and subproject implementation and for
arranging most technical assistance and training. The CPFO, similarly, was
establisted under past projects and would be responsible for oversight of all
project accounting and auditing and for monitoring of Loan disbursement.
4.3       Provincial Agencies.  Regional government implementation
arrangements would be assigned according to standard policies and practices at
each level. Provincial Program Management Offices (PPMOs) have been
established in each provincial government under the Provincial TKPP (Steering
Committee) and BAPPEDA I, and headed by a senior BAPPEDA I officer designated
as Program Coordinator. Provincial Program Finance Offices (PPFOs) have been
established in each of the two provinces and will be responsible for
supporting the Central Project Finance Office (CPFO), overseeing and assisting
local Project Finance Offices (PFOs), and compiling financial statements for
consolidated provincial audits. Each PPMO and PPFO would include a small
contract staff and seconded regular staff of concerned provincial agencies,
among the most important being:
(a) BAPPEDA I staff with responsibility for the key task of program
appraisal (including AMDAL environmental assessment) as well as
overall expenditure programming at the provincial level;
(b) Dinas PU (DPUP, Provincial Public Works Department) staff for
technical subproject preparation support and implementation
including O&M supervision (most APBD I project managers (PIMPROs)
and most APBN subproject managers (PIMBAGPROs) would be DPUP staff);
(c) Dinas Pendapatan (Revenue Department) staff for revenue improvement;
(d) Biro Keuangan (Finance Bureau) staff for financial management;
(e) Biro ORTALA (Organization and Implementation Bureau) staff for
institutional development; and
(f) Biro BANGDA (Regional Development Bureau) staff for coordination and
use of Provincial INPRES I grants.
4.4       Local Agencies.  Arrangements at the local government level would
parallel those at the provincial level. Policy coordination and guidance
10/ DGCK and DGBM would be responsible for direct implementation central
government infrastructure in addition to being responsible for oversight
and supervision of all infrastructure, including that implemented by the
regional governments.



- 26 -
would be provided by BAPPEDA II, reporting to the bupati for kabupaten
districts or walikota for kotamadya cities. Program Management Offices (PMOs)
would be established in local governments under BAPPEDA 11 and headed by a
senior BAPPEDA II officer. Program Finance Offices (PFOs) would also be
established in each local government, usually in association with the Finance
Division. Each PMO and PFO would include a local consultant shared with
neighboring local governments and could include seconded regular staff of the
concerned local agencies (DISPENDA II, Bagian Keuangan II, etc). Most APBD II
project managers (PIMPROS) would be local Dinas PU (DPUK) staff. A loan
covenant was agreed at negotiation under which the PFO is to be established in
each participating local government, after an initial three-month period
beginning with first project disbursement in that local government.
4.5       Ongoing Program and Subproiect Appraisal.  Appraisal criteria and
procedures have been agreed, rigor increasing with subproject cost and
complexity. These are summarized in Annex 4 Parts C, D and B. Provincial
appraisal capacity is already operational in the BAPPEDA of East Java and is
expected to become operational in Bali by the time of project effectiveness.
The Bank has itself appraised all Batch I programs, including a sample of
typical subprojects and all large subprojects (agreed to be over Rp 4 billion
or about $2.1 million equivalent) proposed for Batch I 'ocal governments.
Annex 14 summarizes results of the Bank's appraisal of two local government
programs and their subprojects. The Bank would continue to appraise new
programs as they are prepared and all revisions to programs which change by
20 percent or more, as well as samples of typical new subprojects and all
large new subprojects during supervision missions, working closely with the
established provincial appraisal capacities and project consultants to be
hired if necessary under the Japanese grant. (It is estimated that no more
than 5-10 large subprojects, including the Surabaya Regional Water Supply
Program, would require Bank appraisal during the first two full years of
project implementation and that there would be none thereafter.) Conventional
economic analysis would be required for all large projects. Simplified
economic analysis would be required for subprojects costing between Rp 400
million and Rp 4 billion. Economic viability of small subprojects costing less
than Rp 400 million would be assumed if they are consistent with local
priorities and adhere to national standards. The MOF staff would confirm
adequate financial analysis of all subsidiary loan applications. Central GOI
commitment to establishment and maintenance of adequate aprraisal capacities
at all levels was confirmed at negotiations.
4.6       Prior to conclusion of Batch II and III preparation and appraisal,
local government may utilize program resources for urgently required small
projects not exceeding Rp 4 billion in aggregate per local government. This
interim facility may be utilized only once by each Tk. II local government and
should not include investments having an implementation period longer than two
years. The provincial government will appraise and approve such proposed
subprojects in accordance with the agreed criteria and to enter into a
provincial PIA with the concerned local government with a maximum two year
validity, to be replaced subsequently with a comprehensive program, when
completed.
4.7       Surabaya Regional Water Supply System Development.  At the time of
negotiations, agreement was reached to include the Surabaya water enterprise
(PDAM Surabaya) as an eligible local government implementing agency for the



- 27 -
Project, in order to facilitate GOI's intention to accelerate the development
of the Surabaya Regional Water Supply System. The proposed scheme includes
private financing for development of source works at Umbulan Springs and major
expansions of the distribution networks for the cities of Surabaya and Gresik.
GOI and the Bank agreed to appraise all proposed investments in Gresik as part
of Batch II in the EJBUDP process. Reduction in other program estimates
facilitated the provision of up to $11 million (January 1991 base costs) for
major distribution improvement in the City of Surabaya as a loan to PDAM
Surabaya in the program, without revision of the EJBUDP loan total. However,
water supply expenditures for the Gresik and Surabaya components of the larger
regional system would be dependent upon successful appraisal of the regional
water supply program, including the proposed BOT arrangement with the private
sector consortium for Umbulan Spztings, to be conducted by the Bank as part of
the scheduled appraisal of the proposed Surabaya Urban Development Project.
4.8       Summary.  The responsibilities for implementing components and
subcomponents of the proposed project are in general assigned to different
agencies and levels of government according to current GOI policies and
practices, which provide for increasing local participation. No new
structural entities would be required, though several would be strengthened
under the project. A summary of agency responsibilities by project component
is provided in Annex 4B.
B.  Program Implementation Agreements
4.9       Program Imn,lementation Agreements.  While all authorities required
for successful Implementation of the proposed project are already held by
existing structural agencies and each level of government, Program
Implementation Agreements (PIAs) have been drawn up to confirm essential
understandings and commitments based upon preparation documentation for
Batch I including the medium-term expenditure programs, financing plans,
revenue improvement action plans (RIAPs) and local institutional development
action plans (LIDAPs). The PIAs are central to the project design in that
local governments are committing themselves to comprehensive sectoral
expenditure programs (including O&M budgets), specific revenue targets by
source, and capacity-building measures for urban management. These investment
and sector plans can and will be amended to reflect changing conditions and
achievement of early targets. However, the process of preparing and arranging
the execution and updating of these programs in each local government is the
core of the IUIDP approach. This project will be the first urban program to
use the PIA concept in Indonesia. GOI presented signed Batcb I and provincial
PIAs at negotiations, indicating expected contributions bv each source for
financing each project sub-component. Other Local PIAs for Batch II and III
local governments would be signed as a condition of disbursement for the
concerned local government.
C. Implementation Schedule
4.10      Program implementation in the full sense will commence on April 1,
1991, and would be completed over a five year period ending June 30, 1996.
However, a small amount of program expenditure has been incurred in FY1990/91
in anticipation of project approval, and this will be the subject of
retroactive financing as explained in paragraph 4.21. The proposed
disbursement period of six years is shorter than the disbursement profile for



- 28 -
the urban sector in Indonesia, and is adopted despite the complexities
involved in dealing with 44 local governments and their water enterprises, for
the following reasons. The urban sector profile has been developed on the
basis of free-standing urban and water supply projects that typically include
large and relatively complex subprojects. In contrast, the proposed loan is a
programmatic operation supporting an expenditure program that includes no new
or complex kinds of subprojects and which is not appreciably larger in real
terms than programs '.hat have already been implemented in the same provinces.
Fund allocations under most channels are provided on an annual basis and past
records indicate full utilization despite some inefficiencies inherent in this
method. Land acquisition requirements are minor and unlikely to cause delays
and there are no identified resettlement requirements. All implementing
agencies would use consultant assistance for design of major subprojects;
small projects are routinely handled in-house. An implementation schedule is
attached as Annex 4A. Confirmation of these arrangements was obtained at
negotiations.
D. Procurement
4.11      Procurement arrangement are detailed in Table 3.  The total value of
civil works contracts, including those financed by borrowings, is estimated to
be $162 million. Contracts exceeding $3 million equivalent (about Rp 6
billion) in value will be procured using international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures under the Bank's procurement guidelines. A 7.5 percent
margin of preference will be applied for eligible domestic contractors in bid
comparisons when ICB procedures are applied. Most civil works contracts are
scattered in location, not suitable for packaging, and mostly will not exceed
$500,000 equivalent (Rp 950 million). For civil works contracts costing less
than $3 million local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank would be used for procurement. Civil works contracts valued less than
Rp 20 million (about $11,000 equivalent) would be awarded through local
shopping procedures following evaluation of at least three quotations.
4.12      The total value of materials and equipment supply will be about
$39 million. The major materials and equipment supply contracts costing
$200,000 and more for the cities of Surabaya and Denpasar will be procured
through ICB procedures following the Bank's procurement guidelines in bid
comparisons. A 15 percent margin of preference for domestic suppliers will be
applicable for ICB procurement. Contracts for the other 43 local governments
and their water enterprises participating in the project will be numerous and
not suitable for packaging into larger packages and such equipment supply
contracts valued below $200,000 (Rp 380 million) will be procured using
established LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. It is expected that local
suppliers will be competitive for most of the goods in this category.
4.13      Miscellaneous minor materials and equipment costing less than
$50,000 equivalent (about Rp 100 million) per package and up to an aggregate
value of $2.0 million equivalent will be procured through local or
international shoping by obtaining at least three quotations.



- 29 -
Table 3.  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ Million)
Procurement Procedure    Total
Expenditure Category                          ICB    LCB       Other    Cost
Central Government loans to local
governments and water enterprises La         20.1   40.1         -      60.2
(16.3) (33.2)              (49.5)
Civil works /b Jc                               -   121.9        -      121.9
(82.6)              (82.6)
Goods lb |d                                   17.2   19.3        -       36.5
(9.3)  (9.6)              (18.9)
O&H                                             -       -       96.3      96.3
Consultant Services and Training Le             -       -       33.5      33.5
(29.3)    (29.3)
In-house Implementation Overhauls               -       -        6.3       6.3
Land                                            -       -        5.8       5.8
Total                                      37.3   181.3    141.9      360.5
(25.6) (125.4)   (29.3)   (180.3)
Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank.
/a   Includes $5.3 million domestic loans to Kotamadya Malang which is not
financed under the Bank loan. These loans would mainly finance civil
works and goods for water supply subprojects.
lb   Other than such expenditure financed by loans to local governments and
enterprises.
/c   Includes $11.0 million expenditure financed from water enterprise
internal funds and private contributions against which IBRD will not
disburse.
Id   Includes $7.2 million expenditure financed from water enterprise internal
funds and private contributions, and $2.5 million in respect of vehicle
purchases against which IBRD will not disburse.
Le   Includes:  engineering design and supervision ($13.1 million); program
implementation management ($13.4 million); institutional development--
municipal management improvement ($3.4 million) and sector development
($3.5 million). A PPF of $1.5 million has been used to support
engineering design ($0.4 million) and program preparation ($1.1 million).
4.14      Procurement of Consultant services would be carried out in
accordance with World Banlr Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



- 30 -
4.15      Prior review of bid documents and award recommendations would be
required for all civil works contracts valued over $500,000 equivalent and all
materials and equipment contracts valued over $200,000 equivalent including
those financed by domestic loans under the Project. The prior review
requirements are expected to cover about 50 percent of total procurement, and
is considered acceptable in a program type operation which includes a large
number of similar contracts for small routinely executed works. Random
checking of smaller contracts will be carried out in the field. Lists of
tentative contracts indicating the method of procurement for Batch I local
governments in each province are given in Annex 5.
E. Disbursement
4.16      Proceeds ox the loan, which would finance about 70 percent of the
project costs, would be disbursed as followss
(a) eligible expenditures financed through central government Domestic
Lending Arrangements: 90 percent of the eligible expenditures of
local governments and their water enterprises which are financed
through central government loans;1l/
(b)  other eligible expenditures:
(i) 70 percent of expenditure on civil works;
(ii) 100 percent of foreign (CIP) costs of directly imported goods
(as evidenced by bills of lading);
(iii) for locally-procured goods, 100 percent of local ex-factory
costs (net of taxes); or 65 percent of the costs of items
procured locally;
(iv) 100 percent of expenditures for consultancy services and
train.ng;
(c) ineligible expenditure: No disbursements would be made in respect
of expenditures on land acquisition, project overheads, and
operations and maintenance.
4.17      Special Account.  Except in the case where contract payments are
made thro'gh IBRD Direct Payment procedures, the IBRD loan proceeds would be
disbursed through the medium of a Special Account for the EJBUDP loan
established by MOF (D-G Budget) at Bank Indonesia. This Special Account would
be maintained in US Dollars, with an initial deposit from IBRD of $5.5
million, representing anticipated average disbursements over a two month
period. Drawings from the Special Account would be directly meet contract
payments under 4.14 (b) above, and would reimburse GOI for contract payments
made in respect of onlending financed components under 4.14 (A) above. IBRD
would replenish the Special Account in respect of these drawings quarterly or
when the balance in the Special Account becomes 50 percent of the initial
11, With the exception of a loan already agreed by GOI for PDAM Kotamadya
Malang, which is being financed domestically.



- 3S
deposit, whichever occurs first, on the application of D-G Budget (TUA)
supported by documentation as followst
(a)  in the case of civil works contracts with a value of $500,000
equivalent and over and goods supply contracts with a value of
$200,000 equivalent and overt (i) Payment Orders (SPM) issued by
offices of the State Treasury (KPN) or by local project
administering banks; (ii) Certificates of Performance (Berita Acara)
issued by implementing agencies; and (iii) "No Objection" Letter
from IBRD regarding the award of the contract;
(b)  in the case of contracts with values below the foregoing limits,
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) procedures will be used. The
detailed supporting documentation in respect of SOEs would be
retained by TUA and implementing agencies, and made available for
review by IBRD on request.
4.18      The disbursement arrangements are more fully described in Annex 6,
which also provides the estimated disbursement schedule. Two important
features are:
(a)  payments to local contractors from the State Treasury would be made
from KPKN offices in the provincial capitals of Surabaya and
Denpasar, (so that contractors would not have to go to Jakarta to
obtain payment);
(b)  KPKN offices would check that the requisite domestically-funded
counterpart payments have been authorized (through the issue of
SPM/SPMU from local or central government sources) before issuing
SPM in respect of Special Account funding.
4.19      Direct Payment Arrangements.  In appropriate circumstances
contractors requiring payment in foreign currency can be paid through IBRD
Direct Payment procedures. Such payments would be made on the application of
implementing agencies, and are subject to a minimum of $50,000 equivalent per
application.
4.20      Project Preparation Facility.  A project preparation facility (PPF)
in the amount of $1.5 million was advanced to GOI to assist project
preparation activities connected with East Java - Bali Urban Development
Project. Upon loan signing the total amount of the PPF would be refinanced
out of the loan.
4.21      Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive financing in the amount of $2
million (equivalent to about one percent of the Loan) would be provided for
financing of expenditures for works, goods and services from Bank appraisal of
the project (March 31, 1990) until loan signing. Completion of the Bank
appraisal also coincided with the beginning of GOI's 1990/91 fiscal year. GOI
has advised that implementation of only a limited number of first year
subprojects was undertaken.
4.22      In order to meet eligibility criteria for disbursement under
retroactive financing, implementing agencies would be required to conform to
the guidelines for procurement and to maintain adequate records and accounts,



- 32 -
particularly for civil works and equipment contracts that require prior review
of bid documents and award decisions by 1BRD.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.23      As indicated in the financing plan, program expenditures will be
financed from a variety of regional and central sources, each of which follow
administrative and financial procedures that are to some extent unique.
Special arrangements are therefore required: (a) to prepare regular
consolidated statements of expenditure by financing source for the whole
program (program memorandum accounts) as a basis for program financial
monitoring and for financial audits; and (b) to collect documentation and
prepare reimbursement applications.
4.24      At the local level, Program Finance Offices (PFOs) will be set up
which will maintain complet¢ and accurate records of all project related
expenditures financed by all sources of funds for all project components
including those of the water enterprises. At the provincial level, a
Financial Management Office (PPFO) will be established and will be responsible
for preparing quarterly consolidated project accounts from the local PFOs
serving each actively participating local government. These will be submitted
annually for audit by the Audit Board (BPKP) of each province.
4.25      At the central level, the Central Program Finance Office (CPFO) will
prepare project accounts of all components implemented directly by the central
agencies. CPFO will also be responsible for consolidating quarterly project
accounts from the two PPFOs and submitting them annually for consolidated
audit purposes by the BPKP Central Office. CPFO will also coordinate
statements-of-expenditure (SOE) audits with the Directorate General for the
Budget, Bank Indonesia and the State Audit Boards's Central Office. A single
consolidated annual audit report will be submitted to the Bank for review, to
include: (a) audit results of consolidated annual project accounts including
SOEs covering all aspects of the project; and (b) the use of the Special
Account to be established at Bank Indonesia and the SOE disbursement
procedures. These audit reports will be submitted to the Bank for review no
later than nine months after the end of GOI's fiscal year. Assurances and
confirmation of accounting and auditing arrangements were obtained at
negotiations.
G. Project Reporting, Monitoring and Bank Supervision
4.26      The Provincial Progcam Management Offices (PPMOs) would be
responsible for preparation of quarterly progress reports covering all program
components implemented in their respective province, including revenue
improvement (under RIAPs), institutional development (under LIDAPs), municipal
management improvement and institutional development. These quarterly reports
would include summaries of progress at the local level prepared in
collaboration with the local Program Management Offices (PMOs), and they would
be submitted to DGCK/CPMO not later than one month following completion of the
quarter concerned. CPMO would consolidate provincial reports within a month
into an overall progress report for submission to TKPP, IMG, BAPPENAS, MHA,
MOF, MPW, and the Bank. These reports would form the basis for monitoring of
progress. Upon completion of the EJBUDP, a Project Completion Report will the



- 33 -
prepared by CPMO for submission to GOI and the Bank. Categories of key
implementation and reporting indicators and responsibilities for their
reporting are summarized in Annex 7. Overall support to the reporting and
monitoring system would be provided by the UNDP/UNCHS-executed IUIDP
Implementation Support Project (INS/89/014). Assurances and confirmation of
reporting and monitoring arrangements were obtained at negotiations.
4.27      Bank Supervision Plan.  In view of the project's broad scope and
programmatic nature, both relatively new for the Bank and Indonesia in the
sector, it would be prudent to plan on an intensive level of supervision of
about 25 staff weeks per year through the first two years of implementation.
Supervision missions should be scheduled about three times annually withs
(a) a "project launch mission" in May or June 1991 to review and assist in
finalizing implementation arrangements and review of all new program starts
and budget documents (DIPs) for the new GOI fiscal year; (b) a mid-year
supervision mission during the September-October period in 1991 and subsequent
years to review actual starts (new programs, approved DIPs and accumulated
implementation issues) and proposals for the upcoming budget year (including
appraisal of large projects); and (c) an end-of-year supervision mission in
January-February 1991 and subsequent years to review new starts and budget
proposals for the upcoming fiscal years. Revised programs with changes of
20 percent or more and all subprojects of Rp 4 billion ($2.1 million) or more
would be appraised by the supervision missions when available. The mid-year
FY95 mission (about September 1994) would most likely be designated as a mid-
term review of the proposed project that would, in addition to carrying out
normal supervision responsibilities, have the primary objective of working
with GOI to formulate a project completion plan and to confirm sectoral
strategy and investment plans for the provinces during Repelita VI (to begin
In April 1994).
H. Land Acquisition and Resettlement
4.28      The emphasis on rehabilitation and upgrading of existing basic
infrastructure, particularly in the roads and drainage subsectors, has
minimized land acquisition and resettlement requirements. A review of Batch I
programs identified no consequential land acquisition problems and no need at
all for resettlement. Bank guidelines on acquisition and resettlement are
being translated to Bahasa Indonesia and incorporated in the IUIDP preparation
guidelines to be applied for Batches 71 and III and in the program
implementation manuals. Land acquisition and any possible resettlement
requirements will be monitored by Bank supervision missions and the project
management staff.
I. Operations and Maintenance
4.29      The expenditure programs for EJBUDP local governments include
components for O&M budgets in every sub-sector, in accordance with IUIDP
guidelines and the technical preparation guidelines. Expenditures are clearly
distinguished between current O&M (e.g., level of current expenditure for O&M
of existing facilities and services in the subsector) and incremental O&M
defined as the agreed additional expenditures to (a) improve O&M of existing
facilities or services, and (b) initiate necessary O&M for new and
rehabilitated infrastructure and services developed during the implementation
period of the proposed project. These additional O&M expenditures, with the



- 34 -
associated local capacities to execute improved O&M, represent one of the most
important program implementation targets. Assistance will be provided under
the Loan to (a) install in all Batch I local governments a simplified version
of the Performance-based Operations and Maintenance Management System (POMMS),
developed for large cities under Urban V and USL, and (b) provide training and
advisory support to local and provincial staff in the programming, budgeting
and management of O&M activities, including trainitig of local staff to prepare
and manage annual O&M programs consistent with MHA Ministerial Decree No. 5 of
1990 (promulgating POMMS and implementing local budgeting procedures that have
been revised to encourage O&M), training DPUP staff to provide O&M technical
advisory support to local governments, and strengthening the capacity of the
existing PMDUs (created with USL assistance) to advise and assist local water
enterprises to improve O&M performance in that subsector. O&M expenditures
would be monitored by CPMO and the PPMOs, supported by the DPUPs, for review
by semi-annual Bank supervision missions and detailed physical assessment in
the mid-term review. Any local government expenditure program would be
subject to re-appraisal and reduction if actual O&M expenditures are found to
be less than 90 percent of the amounts programmed. O&M aspects of the
proposed project are more fully discussed in Annex 13. Assurances in these
regards were obtained at negotiations.
J. Environmental Impact Assessment and Management
4.30      The Bank is committed to assisting GOI develop economically-
efficient approaches to urban and industrial pollution abatement. The Third
JABOTABEK Project is addressing the problem of environmental degradation at
the community level and provides assistance for strengthening of local
governments capacity to monitor pollution. A proposed Industrial Efficiency
and Pollution Control (IEPC) project, which would build on efforts to
strengthen institutional capability for pollution control at the local level
through that project, and to establish a Pollution Control Authority at the
central level, also with Bank assistance, is under preliminary discussion with
00I. The Second East Java Water Supply Project (Loan 2632-IND) supported the
monitoring and abatement of water pollution for Surabaya. The proposed
project would broaden the Bank's support for improved environmental management
in East Java and Bali by financing environmental assessment studies (PILe and
ANDALs) and providing advisory assistance to the provincial commissions
(Komisi Daerah) responsible for environmental assessment and monitoring as
well as formulation and implementation of mitigatory strategies at the
provincial level. Chairmen of the provincial BAPPEDA I in East Java and Bali
serve concurrently as Chairmen of the respective provincial commissions and as
Secretaries of the respective IUIDP Steering Committees.
4.31      A principal objective of the project is to ensure that preparation
and appraisal of investment programs by intermediary organizations adequately
incorporates environmental assessment and management plans. Incorporation of
environmental assessment and management plans into the IUIDP preparation and
appraisal process includes: (a) joint environmental screening of investment
programs by the national-level Environment Commission of Ministry of Public
Works and the Environment Commission of each province; (b) preparation of
PILs/ANDALsJRKLs by appraisal; (c) review of PILs/ANDALs/RKLs by the Regional
Environment Commissions; and (d) appraisal of mitigation measures recommended
in the RKL into project by provincial appraisal teams. Although arrangements
for environmental screening, preparation of environmental assessments and



- 35 -
management plans, review and appraisal of Batch I investment programs are
agreed with Gevernment and are being carried out by project preparation
consultants, follow-up measures to strengthen local environmental management
capabilities and to improve coordination among Central Regional Environment
Commissions, the provincial appraisal teams and local governments are
required. Proposed technical assistance to the Regional Commissions and
BAPPEDAs of East Java and Bali wills (a) ensure timely completion of Batch I
environmental assessment; and (b) build institutional capabilities of
intermediary organizations to carry out environmental assessment of Batch II
and III investment programs, as well as other investments not financed under
this project. The technical assistance includes an inventory of existing
environmental data, design of an environmental management database and
monitoring program, and training of provincial and local officials in
environmental assessment and management.
4.32      Environmental assessment requirements under Government Regulation
PP29/1986 and Annex A of the Bank's Environmental Assessment Operational
Directive 4.00, are being met. Screening of Batch I investment programs
during appraisal identified 32 subprojects with limited but possibly negative
impact, for which preparation of PILs (preliminary/simplified environmental
studies) is required, and seven subprojects with potentially significant
adverse impact, for which preparation of ANDALs (detailed environmental
studies) is required. Essential PILs, ANDALs and accompanying environmental
management and monitoring plans (RKLs) of Batch I subprojects would be
reviewed by the Regional Environment Commissions, as agreed at appraisal, and
by Bank supervision missions. RKLs would be incorporated with subproject
designs, where appropriate, and checked by the provincial appraisal teams
prior to approval of concerned subprojects for implementation (see Annex 15
for summary of this process). Assurances in these regards were obtained at
negotiations.
K. Local Participation
4.33      The IUIDP approach emphasizes strengthening of local participation
in the project cycle. Beneficiary households and communities are involved
routinely in the identification, participation and implementation of KIP
neighborhood improvement programs that have been supported under Bank loans
for more than ten years. Market neighborhood improvement (MIIP) programs have
a similar participatory base. GOI's successful solid waste management and
sanitation programs also rely on participation of beneficiary households and
communities, and have received increasing support under the Urban III, IV and
V projects. On-site sanitation schemes introduced under the Urban V project,
for example, emphasize household financing and the use of NGOs for community
management of implementation. Water supply investments supported by the Bank
now require assessment of cost recovery potential from the beneficiary
households; road investments must be based upon specific road-user needs;
drainage investments emphasize needs expressed by communities subject to
flooding. Most importantly, the overall IUIDP process supported by GOI and
the Bank is designed to upgrade the effective role of local participation:
(a) to start planning and decision processes at a level low enough in
government so that beneficiaries can participate directly; (b) to start early
enough in the budget process so that adequate attention can be provided to
subproject design in meeting beneficiary needs; (c) to place increased
emphasis on local responsibility for O&M, and (d) to take advantage of local
human resource and institutional capacities through the entire project cycle.



- 36 -
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Local Governments
Current Financial Condition
5.1       Central Grant Dependency.  Most Indonesian local governments,
including most in East Java and Bali, are dependent on central grants for the
bulk of their revenues. Central routine and development grants in recent
years represented nearly 70 percent of total kabupaten revenues for East Java
and nearly 75 percent for Bali kabupatens not counting Badung (Denpasar),
which is a special case due to its unique concentration of local'.y taxable
tourist establishments. Central grants tend to be somewhat less dominant in
kotamadyas covered under the proposed project, but still very substantial at
about 60 percent of total revenues on average. Grant dependency is high both
for development expenditure and for financing routine administration,
operational and maintenance needs with the exception of Sidoarjo in East Java
and Badung in Bali. Although there is some evidence that central grant
dependency is beginning to decline primarily in response to reductions in APBN
development grants-in-kind, which fell sharply over the period due to central
budgetary constraints, most local governments will continue to receive
substantial grants funding from the central government.
5.2       Non-grant Revenues.  Local governments' main non-grant revenue
sources fall into three categories* local government taxes; local service
charges; and assigned central government revenue, principally the PBB
(property tax). In most of the Batch I kabupatens, PBB is the largest of
these sources, though in four kabupatens total revenues from service charges
contribute the larger share. Service charges are the largest group of
revenues in all of the kotamadyas, with PBB usually second. With the notable
exception of Badung, local taxes are usually the least significant revenue
source for kabupatens, representing approximately 10 to 20 percent of total
non-grant revenues.
5.3       Growth in non-grant revenue has been fairly good overall in recent
years. Analysis for East Java Batch I regions over the 1983/84 to 1987/88
period indicates an overall average growth rate of about seven percent
annually in constant terms in that period. The overall growth rate was rather
higher in Bali at around 12 percent, attributable mainly to the hotel and
restaurant tax revenue of Kabupaten Badung. Within these overall average
figures, growth rates for local governments' own revenues were generally
higher, at around 10 percent annually in East Java and 14 percent annually in
Bali (again dominated by the hotels and restaurants tax in Badung). Growth
rates for the property tax (which changed radically during the analysis
periods) were much lower on average at around four percent annually in each
province, primarily because of difficulties in introducing new procedures.
Within these total figures there were substantial variations from local
government to local government, and improvements were much higher in Jakarta
and other large cities targeted for assistance under the USL. Future non-
grant revenue forecasts prepared under the RIAP process project a somewhat
higher overall average real growth than in the recent past in Bali, and a
similar level to that of the past in East Java. Again, much of the Bali
growth is expected to come from Badung.



- 37 -
5.4       Borrowing.  Local governments, apart from their older enterprises,
have not on the whole made great use of borrowing in the financing of capital
projects. Host have borrowed only for market construction under the central
government's heavily subsidized INPRES Pasar program, which has been
disbanded. Exceptions are Badung in Bali and Mojokerto in East Java, which
have borrowed substantial sums in recent years. Only Badung, however,
borrowed for urban infrastructure (under the Urban IV project, Loan 1972-IND).
Until recently local governments were required to restrict the levels of their
borrowing by reference to the "debt service ratio" criterion broadly defined
as the ratio of total loan charges payable in a year to total revenues
available for development in that year. However, the application of that
criterion has been unclear and open to varying interpretations. The maximum
permitted ratio was prescribed at 15 percent, which, on the stricter
interpretations of how to define the ratio, was very conservative. Confusion
about the former criterion may have been a contributory factor in lo:al
governments past reluctance to borrow in any substantial way. GOI has now
decided to replace it with one based on a more closely defined minimum *debt
service coverage ratio" (DSCR). This has been stipulated for any given year
as:
(projected non-grant and local revenues for the year in question
less projected routine account expenditure on staff, administration
and operational and everyday maintenance needs) + (total estimated
loan charge obligations arising in that year from currently
outstanding loans and future proposed borrowing).
The minimum value of the DSCR ratio has been set at 1.5 by GOI for borrowing
by local governments. Estimates of maximum borrowing capacity for each of the
Bali Batch I local governments have been prepared by making forward
projections of the elements in the above formula for the program period and
for a number of years followinE sufficient to establish a clear trend
indicating that the minimum ratio will be safely achieved. The total
capacities are small, however, and some local governments have indicated a
preference to finance their investment directly. Most of the Batch I local
governments have nevertheless made commitments to borrow at least small
amounts in consultation with central and provincial officials. Given the low
use of borrowing in the past, the newness of the debt service coverage ratio
criterion, and the likelihood that regional governments will not be able to
borrow in practice for development expenditure in a number of important non-
urban sectors, the local governments proposals can generally be regarded as
satisfactory. Assurances and confirmations were obtained at negotiations that
local governments eligible for borrowing under this project will maintain
minimum debt service coverage ratios of 1.5.
Key Issues
5.5       Local Revenue Administration.  Although annual growth in local
revenues has generally been steady, studies undertaken during preparation of
the Revenue Improvement Action Programs (RIAPs) provide persuasive evidence
that current levels of major revenue sources are considerably below their real
potentials. Deficiencies are often found in local government administration
which lead to under assessment and under collection of tax revenues. The
project seeks to address these deficiencies by continuing to support on-going
efforts which were initiated under previous Bank loans and to expand the scope
of the work as described below.



- 38 -
5.6       RIAP/LIDAP Process.  RIAPs and LIDAPs introduced during the project
preparation phase, and to be refined during project implementation, seek to
identify practical steps needed to achieve improvements in the planning and
administration of local taxes and service charges. Such steps typically
include collection of data on the revenue bases including proper identifica-
tion of tax objects and tax subjects, analyses of revenue potentials, review
of tariffs, and establishment of annual revenue targets representing a
progressive narrowing of the gap between performance and identified
potentials. As specified under the Program Implementation Agreements, local
governments will commit themselves to implementing the RIAPs with technical
assistance and necessary equipment provided under the project. In this
connection, GOI is providing (with domestic funds) further support to the
reform effort of the local government revenue departments (DISPENDA). The
MAPATDA reform program 12/ initiated under Urban V project, was first
introduced and tested in six cities, then expanded to 100 other cities, and is
now in the process of nationwide implementation. Summaries of typical RIAPs
and LIDAPs are provided in Annexes 9 and 10.
5.7       Property Tax (PBB).  Registration, valuation and assessment duties
for this central tax are performed by local offices of the Directorate General
of Taxation of MOP. However, major parts of the collection work relating to
rural PBB and part of urban PBB are performed by, or under the supervision of,
the- local governments. (The latter receive 64.8 percent of the gross
proc 'is, irrespective of the collecting agency.) PBB administration
currently suffers from the same kinds of failures as local taxes:
(a) incomplete identification/registration of the tax base;
(b) often severe under-assessments due to incorrect classifications of
property, inaccurate data on property characteristics, and
unrealistically low valuations in relation to market values;
(c) slow progress with updating tax cadastres, while existing cadastral
records are often many years out of date;
(d)  deficiencies in collection performance by both local government and
PBB Inspectorates (arrears can be high and records poor); and
(e) absence of good systems for estimating real potential PBB yield, and
thus for setting realistically ambitious targets for the personnel
involved in administration.
The PBB Directorate has made a start at tackling these problems in the
JABOTABEK region and in other large cities with assistance under the Urban
Sector Loan. GOI has proposed to use its own resources to provide similar
121 The main highlights of MAPATDA include a reorganization of the local
government revenue department (DISPENDA) to reorient the focus on
taxpayer information, an important stage of this ta.x administration
process (e.g., assessment, billing, collection) in contrast to the
existing structure where the focus is on the tax type which does not put
taxpayer records in one field. The new system will centralize personal
records for each identified taxpayer and provides a complete assessment
of taxpayer's liabilities from all kinds of taxes.



- 39 -
assistance in East Java and Bali. Specifically, such a P8B improvement
program would provide technical expertise and equipment necessary to achieve
substantial improvements in property registration, mapping, property
assessment, tax billing, collection and enforcement, and performance
monitoring against targeted improvements, both fog the PBB Inspectorates and
for the relevant local government institutions.
5.8       Financial Management Practices.  There are significant weaknesses in
local and provincial governments' standardized practices for financial manage-
ment in the areas of strategic planning and multi-year programming, annual
budgeting, bookkeeping and accounting and financial reporting. A Financial
Management Improvement component would begin a process of extending to all
local and provincial governments covered in the proposed project tlh.e new per-
sonal-computer based systems of medium term financial planning and
programming, annual budgeting, expenditure and revenues accounting, and finan-
cial reporting and monitoring which were initiated on a pilot bases in three
cities under the Urban V project. By the end of the project , it is expected
that installation will be complete in all Batch I local governments and at
least partially complete in the others.
B. Water Enterprises
5.9       The provinces of East Java and Bali tnder this project have a com-
bined total of 44 water enterprises (WEs), incL.uding 27 PDAMs and 17 BPAMs
(transitional water enterprises). The PDAMs ire owned and operated by their
respective local governments, while the BPAMs are operated on a temporary
arrangement under DGCK/MPW. There are eight enterprises including five PDAMs
in Bali, and 36 enterprises including 22 PDAMs in East Java. All of the
enterprises could benefit from the proposed project, subject to their
individual programs being able to meet appraisal criteria.
Financial Appraisal Process
5.10      Of the 44 water enterprises, appraisal for 12 Batch I enterprises
has been completed. A summary of the individual investment and financing
plans is presented in Annex 11. Appraisal of the remaining enterprises is
expected to continue as preparation work proceeds for Batch II enterprises and
as work will begin upon loan effectiveness for Batch III enterprises. The
methodology applied for the financial appraisal is embodied in the Financial
Analysis and Projection model, widely known as the FINPRO model. FINPRO is a
Lotus 1-2-3 integrated financial model capable of producing the standard
outputs of financial projections for an enterprise.   The financial appraisal
requires extensive use of this model by the appraisal team as well as those
involved in the preparation and analysis of financial projections at the
enterprise level.



- 40 -
Performance and Current Conditions
5.11      All PDAMs and BPAMs are required to prepare annual financial reports
which are audited by BPKP. A summary showing the highlights of operating
results for the past four years is presented in Annex 11.  Most of the water
enterprises have provided their most recent audit reports, which were produced
by BPKP.  These reports have been reviewed by the Bank and found to be
satisfactory.
5.12      Wihile all of the PDAMs achieved annual operating surpluses, BPAMs
were generally required to cover only their O&M expenses.  Most recent reports
for the BPAMs indicate an increasing trend toward profitability. After
allowing for depreciation, all PDAMs achieved annual before-tax operating
surpluses ranging from one to 35 percent in the period 1985/1987. Buleleng
and Jember had operating surpluses in 1985, out incurred losses in the two
succeeding years before they returned to profitability in 1988. Banyuwangi,
Jember and Badung are the oily water enterprises which have notable experience
with long term borrowing. They have been paying interest on previous loans
and still managed to remain profitable. Overall, PDAMs in Batch I have
remained profitable during the period and five of them have consistently made
income tax remittances annually to the GOI. Most of the PDAMs achieved the
national tariff structure objectives of affordability to consumers while
producing an adequate surplus to cover O&M costs including depreciation
allowance and debt service. These objectives are defined in the National
Water Rate Structure promulgated in 1984 under a joint ministerial decree
(KEPHIN of MHA and MPW).
5.13      Water Enterprises Management.  A review of selected East Java and
Bali WEs indicates that key managerial and skilled/technical personnel are
lacking, particularly in the areas of financial accounting, billing and
collection, inventory control, O&M and construction management. The prospects
of making improvement through recruitment appear to be bleak, as better job
opportunities and employment incentives elsewhere make it difficult if not
impossible in most cases for WEs to attract fully qualified individuals.
5.14      Under the East Java Water Supply I and II projects, a Provincial
Monitoring and Development Unit (PMDU) was set up at the provincial level to
provide technical and managerial services to the PDAMs to help fill these
gaps. The PMDU has experts under the Bank loans and Dutch bilateral aid. Its
performance in assisting WEs has so far been impressive. Under the proposed
project, technical assistance will be extended to strengthen the staffing of
the existing PMDU in East Java and to complete the establishment and staffing
of the similar PMDU in Bali. It is expected that properly staffed and
organized PMDUs for the principal purpose of providing technical and
managerial services to BPAMs and PDAMs will be strengthened and maintained in
East Java and Bali.
Financia. Prodections
5.15      The financial projections for each of the 12 Batch I water
enterprises have been prepared based on the basis of several assumptions, of
which the key ones include: (a) existing and new water connections;
(b) average consumption per connection; (c) assumed water tariff rates;
(d) increasing sales of water resulting from new connections and reduced
unaccounted-for-water (UFW); (e) declining UFW, (f) rates of inflation for



- 41 -
local and foreign costs; and (g) a financing plan, investment levels and
operating parameters. The projection exercise involves income statements,
sources and applications of funds, balance sheets, financing plans, and
monitoring indicators. A summary of the assumptions is provided in Annex 11
along with a concise version of the financial projections and a summary of
proposed investments and financing plan for Batch I enterprises. While all
PDAMs are expected to borrow, the BPAMs are expected to receive the proceeds
of the loan as turnkey grants-in-kind up to the point at which they graduate
to PDAM status able to finance expansion through borrowing.
5.16      It is expected that PDAMs will borrow about $47.9 mnillion under the
proposed project, of which about $34.7 million would be financed under the
Bank loan. Major borrowing water enterprises will include PDAM Badung (Bali),
and PDAM Surabaya (subject to separate appraisal).
5.17      Assurances were obtained at negotiations with regard to:
(a)  all PDAMs will maintain an average debt-equity ratio of 70130 and a
minimum debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.3 on average for
every three-year period;
(b)  to meet the above revenue objective, each participating local
government enterprise will adjust its tariffs, starting with April
1, 1992 and thereafter on January 1, 1994 and January 1, 1996, after
reviewing the adequacy of its tariffs and furnishing a copy of this
tariff review to the Bank;
Cc) all water enterprises (including BPAMs) will maintain revenues which
cover at least O&M costs during the first three years of project
implementation and both O&M costs and depreciation on revalued
assets after that;
(d) confirmation that PDAMs will not be required to pay out any portion
of their revenues to their local government during the construction
period. All income is, therefore, to be retained by PDAMs for their
own financing needs; and
(e) preparation of an action plan and schedule by April 1, 1992 for
tariff adjustments and for conversion of BPAMs in the Project
Provinces to become PDAMs.
C. Domestic Lending Arrangements
5.18      Under the project Central Government is expected to lend a total of
approximately Rp 105 billion ($55 million equivalent) 131 to local
governments and their water enterprises under Domestic Lending Agreements
(DLA) between Central Government and the borrower. These loans will be
prefinanced from domestic funds with reimbursement to GOI from the proceeds of
the Bank loan.
13/ Excluding a loan of Rp 10 billion ($5.3 million equivalent) to PDAM
Malang which was agreed before appraisal.



- 42 -
5.19      The following summarizes the agreed method of calculating the
domestic lending rates and related conditionst
(a) The 6-month average of the 3-month Sertifikat Bank Indonesia (SBI)
rate at the time of appraisal would be used as proxy for "market
rate" in the calculation; hereafter called 'S5I Index".
(b) GOI would apply the agreed discount percentage to the SBI Index to
produce an onlending interest rate, but the magnitude of the
discount will be reduced over time to move the onlending rate toward
market rates in progressive steps.
(c) The interest rate for any proposed loan to local government or
regional enterprise would be fixed at time of appraisal and remain
constant for the life of the loan.
(d)  For the EJBUDP on.ending the following schedules would be used for
calculation of onlending interest rates for each 'batch' of local
governments and enterprisest
Group    Appraisal Date                        Formula
Batch I  Periods  Prior to April 1, 1990  s  60S of SBI Index - 92
(0.6 x 14.8Z SBI Index for
March 1990)
Batch II Period: April 1, 1990 -
about March 31, 1992    s  701 of SBI Index
Batch III Period: about April 1, 1992 -
about March 31, 1994    s  751 of SBI Index
(e) The minimum of "floor' rate of interest for any lending to local
government or enterprise, regardless of index/formula reduction,
shall be not less than the Bank rate plus 1.75 percent for Batches
II and III.
(f) The maximum interest rates of 10.5 percent and 11.5 percent will
apply to onlending for Batch II and III respectively, and subproject
feasibility studies shall be prepared utilizing these maximum values
for each Batch.
5.20      The repayment and grace periods for the DLA loans will be geared to
the economic lves of the investments (5-20 years) to be financed, with a
maximum grace period of five years.
5.21      Standard procedures have been developed, with assistance under the
Urban Sector Loan (2816-ID) and from other donors, for loan applications and
approvals, mechanisms for disbursement to the borrowers, and central debt
management arrangements. All loan proposals will be the subject of provincial
government appraisal and central government review from the viewpoint of
financial and economic viability of the proposed investments, and of the
financial capacity of the borrowers based on the minimum debt service coverage
ratio criteria (paragraphs 5.3 and 5.17). Handbooks, application forms and
educational material will be provided to all local governments and water



- 43 -
enterprises to assure full awareness of the availability of the lending
facility and of its terms and conditions. Annex 4-H gives more detail of the
mechanics of the proposed DLA lending arrangement.
5.22      The domestic lending arrangements (DLA) mechanism is expected to
play a critical role in: (a) facilitating administration of subsidiary loans
for up to 44 local governments and 45 water enterprises under the project;
(b) streamlining access to credit for local governments and their enterprises;
(c) strengthening the financial and economic viability of investment projects;
(d) enc iraging local governments and enterprises to establish service charges
on an increasingly cost-recoverable basis (thereby enabling more targeting of
grant resources on the most needy regions); and (e) assisting local
governments and water enterprises to establish credit histories that would
give them confidence in borrowing and to give commercial creditors a basis for
lending to them on market terms in the future.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Economic Justification
6.1       Since the project covers seven sectors of urban infrastructure
services (water supply, drainage, human waste management, solid waste
management, road improvement, kampung improvement, marketplace infrastructure
improvement) and a large number of urban areas, it was necessary to develop a
structured apprcoch to economic analysis. Subprojects are classified according
to investment costs, i.e. small (less than Rp 400 million in constant 1989
prices), medium (Rp 400 million to Rp 4 billion) and large (over Rp 4 bil-
lion). A subproject is defined as a logical unit of investment in one of the
subsectors which must be implemented as one activity to obtain the planned
benefits. Economic viability of small subprojects, provided that these adhere
to agreed planning and design criteria, is presumed. Medium size subprojects
are subject to a simplified economic analysis, which, with the exception of
the Batch I subprojects will not be reviewed by the Bank. Large subprojects
have to go through a more detailed analysis and the applied assumptions and
methodology is subject to a Bank review on a case by case basis.
6.2       Economic rate of return (ERR) or net present value (NPV)
calculations are required for medium and large subprojects in the water
supply, road and drainage sectors. Quantification of economic benefits is
based on (a) consumers' willingness to pay for water supply (the methodology
is described in Annex 4E); (b) expected savings in vehi,.ie operation costs and
time savings for road improvements; and (c) either avoided flood damage or
increase in land values plus reduction in the expected level of road
maintenance costs for drainage improvements. An ERR of 10 percent is used as
the cut-off rate.
6.3       Economic benefit of human and solid waste management and kampung
improvement subprojects is not quantified. Both the human and solid waste
management subprojects represent least cost solutions to the problem of
providing a basic level of service that is adapted to local needs and
traditions. Economic viability of similar kampung improvement was demonstrated
under a series of Wirld Bank assisted projects in Indonesia, including Loans
1972-IND in Bali and 2408-IND in East-Java.



- 44 -
6.4       During preparation, all identified Batch I subprojects were analyzed
according to these criteria. Several water supply subprojects proved to be
non-economic and were substantially modified or eliminated from the project.
IRRs or NPVs of identified road and drainage improvements were calculated in
each kabupaten and, within the constraints set by fund availability and local
government implementation capacity, the most attractive ones were proposed for
implementation. A large majority of the subprojects fell into the 10 to
15 percent ERR range. Due to extremely high traffic densities, several road
improvements had an estimated ERR of 25 percent or more.
6.5       As it is described in more detail in Annex 4C, arrangements were
made to ensure that the same criteria and appraisal process will be applied
for Batch II and III subprojects. During supervision, Bank staff will monitor
the appraisal process closely in order to maintain project quality.
B. Cost Recovery
6.6       Cost recovery is a complex issue in Indonesia with significant
technical, economic, social and policy implications. It is not a primary
focus of the proposed project. Nevertheless, four of the seven subsectors
covered by the project offer potential for at least partial cost recovery
through charges to service users. These potentials have been considered
carefully in process of preparing revenue improvement action plans (RIAPs) and
financing plans for the Batch I local governments and water enterprises.
Evidence that they have been similarly considered will be among the criteria
for review and appraisal of RIAPs and financing plans for Batches II and II.
Moreover, evidence that agreed tariff increases as set out in RIAPs and
elsewhere would be reviewed during the appraisal of subprojects, as followss
(a) Water Supply. Based on preliminary assessment of a representative
selection of investment proposals, full cost recovery is expected in
most cases following improvements to existing supply and
distribution networks. It is recognized that cost recovery may not
always be practicable for new small-scale systems (IKK). Even
though such systems may be well-justified in terms of economic
benefits, they are subject to thorough analysis of cost recovery
prospects in each case. Information must be provided for this
purpose on the true unit supply costs and comparisons must be made
with existing and proposed feasible tariff levels to allow for a
fully informed discussion of options and prospects. The feasibility
of achieving cost recovery in a water enterprise as a whole through
cross-subsidy between user groups and between existing and new
systems must also be examined, with due appreciation of the
difficulties and possible distortions often experienced in such
programs. Another major issue is posed by the deterrent effect for
potential new customers of present high connection charges. These
are typically in the region of Rp 150,000 for the official charges,
substantially higher than the marginal cost of making a connection
to the street main. Supplementary unofficial levies may increase
the final cost to the consumer to a still higher level. Options for
promoting higher numbers of connections include: (a) charging only
the actual marginal connection cost; (b) deferred payment of
connection fee; (c) building connection costs into tariffs with only
a nominal connection fee; (d) laying service pipes to plot
voundaries at the same of initial construction of reticulation; and



- 45 -
(e) introduction of by-laws requiring connection of properties
located within a given distance from a water main, or the levy of a
charge in lieu of connection.
(b)  Human Waste Disposal.  Analysis indicates that septic tank emptying
services can be capable of recovering costs in full through an
appropriate level of service charge, though the net public benefits
of effective human waste disposal are such that it is not in general
reasonable to insist upon full private cost recovery. Local
governments should in any case consider the option of contracting
out this service to private operators. Soiad Waste Disposal.
Analyses suggest that in relation to the household sector, only
partial cost recovery may be feasible for this service at acceptable
tariff levels. However, local governments should be provided with
information on the true unit collection and disposal costs,
including national or actual capital charges, as an aid to informed
decision making. Analysis of feasible tariff structures should be
aimed at maximizing the degree of cost recovery, including the
prospects of full recovery form larger industrial and commercial
users and regional markets, and a progressive tariff for domestic
households, perhaps based on the property value classification used
for the PBB property tax. Market infrastructure Improvement. The
feasibility of recouping the costs of this investment through
in_reases in market rental charges should be examined in all cases.
C. Poverty Impact
6.7       According to the Indonesia Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report
(Report No. 8034-IND), 8.8 percent of the urban population in East Java and
12.3 percent in Bali lived in poverty in 1987. Drainage, kampung improvement
(KIP) and public water tap construction under the proposed project would be
especially beneficial for this population. Experience has shown that it is
mainly the urban poor who are affected by frequent flooding, because they must
settle in the most marginal, low-lying areas or along drains and river banks
that often overflow. Experience has also shown that the poor generally suffer
in terms of overcrowding and lack of convenient access to water, sanitation
and other key services. These services would be provided under the proposed
project as freestanding drainage subprojects and as part of the nation-wide
KIP program for upgrading informal, unplanned and unserviced urban settle-
ments, particularly with low-income residents. Public taps provided tnder KIP
would provide safe water that is readily accessible to poor familles lacking
house connections and living in water-stressed areas. Easily accessible, low-
cost drinking water can substantially improve the life of these people.
However, the physical investment itself does not guarantee results. Institu-
tional arrangements for the operation of the taps are an equally important
aspect of project implementation. Local community groups have participated in
planning of the water supply system and house connection/standpipe arrange-
ments in East Java and Bali as part of the IUIDP formulation process.
Continuation of this participation is a prerequisite to establish a viable,
low-cost system of managing and maintaining the public taps.
D. Environmental Impact
6.8       Screening of Batch I investment programs indicated that two-thirds
of the 117 identified subprojects were expected to have little or no adverse



- 46 -
impact. Environmental assessments of the remaining subprojects are underway,
and environmental management plans will be approved and incorporated into
design and implementation of these subprojects (para. 4.32). Benefits of the
proposed technical assistance to the Regional Environment Commissions (Komisi
Daerah) and BAPPEDAs of East Java and Bali includes (a) timely completion of
required environmental assessments; and (b) incorporation of environmental
assessment and management mechanisms into preparation and appraisal of future
investment programs by intermediary organizations, whether Bank-financed or
not.
E. Local Participation
6.9       The proposed project expands emphasis of past projects on
strengthening local participation in the project cycle. Beneficiary
households and communities continue to be involved in the identification,
preparation and implementation of neighborhood and market improvement programs
(KIP and MIIP). Similar local involvement continues for solid waste
management and sanitation programs, which also emphasize household financing
and the use of NGOs. Water supply, drainage and road investment programs
emphasize increas'ng participation of community groups in program and
subproject planning. Local government responsibility for O&E is also
stressed. More generally, the overall IUIDP process responsible for
preparation and implementation of the proposed project is designed to upgrade
local participatien: (a) to start planning and decision process at a level
low enough in government so that beneficiaries can participate directly; (b)
to start early enough in the budget process so that adequate attention can be
provided to subproject design in meeting beneficiary needs; (c) to place
increased emphasis on local responsibility for O&M, and (d) to take advantage
of local human resou:ee and institutional capacities through the entire
project cycle.
F. Benefits and Risks
6.10      The most important expected benefits and risks of the project are
inherent with GOI's gradual  .ovement toward regional autonomy.  The chief
benefits would flow from more efficient use of resources allocated to the
sector through better programming of urban infrastructure and services by
increasingly capable and responsible local governments. The chief risk is
that the pace of required institutional development--for decentralized systems
of management, finance, manpower development--is difficult to predict and may
not be adequate for full and timely achievement of all project objectives.
The quality of subproject preparation and implementation may even decline in
the short run as local gorernments learn how to play their new roles, though
this risk would appear to be minimal in East Java and Bali given their
relative sophistication. Moreover, total expenditure programs for the next
five years will not be substantially greater in real terms than those actually
delivered during the last five years, and there will be few if any new or
complex kinds of subprojects. Finally, the UNDP/UNCHS-executed IUIDP
Implementation Support Project and funds provided under the Japanese grant
would provide substantial assistance to GOI and the Bank in carrying out
effective project supervision.



- 47 -
VII.  AGRMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       During negotiations, assurances and confirmations were obtained from
GOI on the following principal points:
(a) timely provision of counterpart funds and new channeling
arrangements for some INPRES grants to local governments (para.
3.9);
(b) each local government shall establish a Project Finance Office (PFO)
and install the standard project financial accounting and monitoring
system within three months of the initial disbursement of project
funds for that local government (para. 4.4);
(c) establishment and maintenance of adequate appraisal capacities at
all levels (para.,4.5);
(d) the Bank will review all new programs and sub-projects as they are
prepared and changes of local government expenditure programs of
more than 20 percent or revision of subprojects costing more than
$2.1 (Rp 4 billion) million equivalent, as noted in the PIAs and
supervision plan (paras. 4.5 and 4.27);
(e) project implementation responsibilities of participating agencies
(para. 4.10);
(f) establishment and maintenance of arrangements for: (i) the
implementation schedule and procurement arrangements; (ii) accounts
and audits; (iii) reporting and monitoring; (iv) operations and
maintenance; and (v) environmental impact assessment and management
(paras. 4.25, 4.26, 4.29 and 4.32);
(g) eligibility of local governments for borrowing (para. 5.4);
(h)  PDAM debt equity, debt service coverage, tariff and income
retention, and conversion of BPAMs to PDAMs (para 5.17); and
(i) GOI has defined revised domestic lending arrangements which include
an indexed formula for gradually reducing the discount/subsidy
component of interest rates charged to local governments and
enterprises (para. 5.19).
7.2       The following will be conditions of disbursement for each local
governments
(a) signature of a local PIA acceptable tc the Bank (para. 4.9 and
Annex 4) for disbursement of central government contributions; and
(b) signature of loan agreements acceptable to the Bank for
reimbursement of DLA expenditures (para. 5.19);



- 48 -
Recommendation
7.3       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank Loan of $180.3 million to the Republic of Indonesia for
20 years, including five years grace at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.



- 49 -
n A- MU -    -
Ltast    Fergi     Tloe       Le1t    Paolesn    TOeI
A. pEmmrj &faMduetare 0.W -IOMW mAd D
1. Water Supply                                           8.2      49.1     18.$ 8      8.1       U.S      67.0
. Dain                                                     1.1       9.9     81.0       1.1        5.2      16.8
8.    d                                                  oeA11.9    6.8      16.2        6.6       9.1      6.8
4. 8  taUui,Ssar . as                                      6.0       4.0     19.0        4.9       9.1      O.a
8. Urb  Needs                                             60.1      39.6    U9.9        49.1      90.9      68.1
: Ka~imgIogrova'am9                                       9.4      4.9      14.8        4.9       2.6      7.8
Wesetracbwv bw vism-                              t.0      0.6       1.6        9.5       0.8      0.6
6. DIo -a" supe vision 
-In %seLa                                             6.0                6.6         4.6      0.0       4.8
- ctv rete&                                            1S.4       6.7      16.1       6.5       8.0       9.8
9. conSt Orren vl                                         77.9      60.6    108.4       41.0      15.0       7.0
1o. Zara.ntl 07.7                                                   14.5      49.9       14.6       7.6     4.9
S*ubol Program Ur lftsure 4.1smsr"    , aNd go
9. swmw   s~  SWO  M
I. Ld, etlI woo  and    I                                           Mt  6 .1  21.        8.2       6.7      9.9
2. Dealgn an Supervl_em
-lt4maae£                                               0.2       0.0      0.21        0.1      0.0       0.1
- contrea0                                                        0.8      0.0        0.5       0.        0.5
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8                                 MA       lw          LZ        L2       Di  uUs
C.   _a      i   tno   andl    I_U
1. Prgram prartlmen                                        6.9      6.9      18.9        8.7       8.7      7.8
2.Prou,.   ag,n                                            4.5       1.4      6.9        9.4       0.6      8.1
1.8      1:8       8.6        1.0      1.0       1.9
4. Tz nlal t _                                             1.0       1.0      9.1        0.0       0.6      1.1
Su1to0l P1 roGrm SbmaeaMM* and Wapiamet1oM             MA         i       MA          L8        LI         AIS
0. If)iOkb          te&L  II
I. wenicIpel      t Iapowe.m*                              4.0      2.5       6.6        2.1       1.8      8.4
2. s8at. deepn                                             1.4      5.2       6.7        0.6       9.7      8.5
Subtoaul Imbetltalonal SoweJopUmeb                      LA        1Z       HAl         ad       LQ        LI
be  w- ft__ Pogra.ewluding 6rbae Wer Supply           86.1      1.       491.1       1M7.      96.9      M4.
- Suraba     S.Ag r.g                                    6.9      16.0      1.         8.7       6.6      20.5
bOIm                                                         J      1 3 1       L II     S  I   SL3          1
_ D5|@* hve|!~Pr.grss asoleding Surabqps tater Spi,       90.5      11.9     4.8        10.7       6.8     17.0
-           s        ProJet                                9.6       1.4      2.0        0.8       0.6      0.9
Petue    OgmU us L.... aoleudlng turabIp Wete suupl           49.7     94.5    107.9        46.5      12.9     60.8
V              SupPr. 0tw  Juaply  eJu*                    1.9      1.0       9.9        1.0       0.7      1.7
- Llif Foes!  " l"dtm~ Sweelum$ W"etu  IwplJp   4U.1.  91.4    60.5           86.0    113.4    84a.4
-I PSogram eppludlag SurabU VJ                ~ i.    0i.4     94.9         5.0      6.1      16.1
Tsei                                                  mm    M1A  4I    Ma    3.s                         M
Bater  dotln   _rotn                                          6.6      19.0   t4.5           2.9     10.0      12.9
Tol finawelog erd                                            43.1       .e        0.9         .9     18.6    6A.4
£5 In-luau. desigo andt.2.rvhen a lbe is (Imoluding projet   agn) herv bam oiculad an eviI wor. sa  oad. at IS
for eater spply and   f otrcr ubeectoer.
& otrate deolgl . mm  uervdhelo  cae r. haebam tmuer e lan ci wo .ks adgosa  vg,O5for             Srbey eaterc
11.9.93                         aewerege mmd ~~~~~as3                              we rl oh
Is         l       aree here 1 bean catsu3e teT'wnfra tor. mm SM *costseo in ecordance with freeat of locel end foreuon
n ltle provided by IU. lb price catlgnow  ewe bean ci bea  for Projec Ilngat nd Intttlnoeia
Oevbepam Its.



- 50 -
NONESA: EArJAVAANDQUUM W OEV5OPUENt PfrJ
ANNEX 1
Page 2
LO   FIN1 TOW   LOWd Faor  Tow   Wmd ?adYml Lowd ?ae4 ToW   tood ?uo   ToW  LOWd fOht  TOW   LOWd Poretl Tow
1.                                        080.00.1 01     0.0 0.0G   0.1   0.00.1    0*   0.0 0                 0.l   0.0  0.1   0.0  0.   0.0   0.4  0.0  0-4
a cudO                                    11.6  0.   7h    0.   0.      A 1*  1    0.   I.?   IS   0.   IS    7*   6.4  0.    LO6  2.?  6.   16.1  7.? 2431
-me2                              0. .01?    0.6   0           Is    1.0 0.     I 1.0   6.    613.   1.1   Li0.2    0.?  0.7  1.1    t 0         a10.1?9
-La S                                               GS   GM .800.    0.40.L40on.        1 1*.1 &I          *1.81          0.80.1Cs0.6       1016   7.7
4. Duuud   crboa6m
-b4AM                    4~~~04   0. 06.4    0.0       0.000    0.0   0.00.   0.1   CO00.1    0*   0.00          0.1  0.0  0.1   085  0.0  0.6
_40fals"                  n~2.    .0  8*    0.   (0.41 0.     *   0.1  0.4   0.0   0.4  1*    Is   0.6  16    0.?  0.1  1.0   6.1   1*1  44
kna~u"iS                            14O  17.1 41.    2*   1*  0*    1.    60  8.A   ?.0   6   14.1  11.   6.  US    7*   US  11.4  116  21.? 6L1
6Olmsk   aed21     0*1.0   4.?  0.   0.?   0.   1.   7.1   0.4  .1 71 la                                        .?         ?A t.6 0.    *   08   St$  10.1 174
a' ugomeOOM                                1.0  0.6  IA    10   0.0at1  0.1   0Q00.1    0 _._0*t   0.                   *."    0.    03 *           1.8 0.6 1*
TqwwAK GIR  *A s"             a,  US) US*   0.?   21 I0.    0    4.0 18*   11            "   S"   SU   10.? 210   64*   64 28   01.7  216  918
1. UW 61dw                                 14    e   e14               ee e0 4    1.  o0 0.    U    0.0 0.       0A      o0.0       .   eo 0. 0           oo0.0  t
I    wb                                   40" a1  a. 60.    es        11.1   1.   G.6 173   I       " to  IGS   11*   6.  17.1   1      GS  16   16.4   M   91.0
& 400
-608                      0.00.0~~Gh OA          t         t  O    QG0.0 0.00.0.0O*0.0.0 0*.0.0 00 00.0 00 0                     0.0   0.000.
-6.08                             0.5  2.8  0*   0e    0*  0.0   1.8   e*  5.6   16   0*    6                 0.4 1t         1.   0.  Is 7o ae        10r.
4. 0as  iudu 
_ _042                                  0          0     0 as    OA0  0*09                        as e5t       0.   06          0.0  0.9 tJ6   0.0 t16
-o _ _                             1 0IS   .0    01          01       0. LO  te  r0*    "        t4a  OA           2 0.S O6    0.4 0* .O    14   1.0   4
kvadmmoonb               US*  II  17.0   0.    4*  1*   10.   1*14*   14.4   0.1116 I 14                  OM5  16t   6*  a6.0  76*0  60. l11t
L.     _                                  te    e   t       I0.6   01 *A      *    .   0.       4   0.   0.    IS ea  e2          0.7   0.6 14 14 I      10  14.0
u u        rneW                           0.?   LO  14.?   0.?  0.4  1.1    1    0.   t#    0.8   1.10          1.0  IA  4.    4.4"  t.r   ?   1         6.  16
TeW0lmed.6siu.                          M1I  81.? 10     11*   4 "A   MO*26    IL7  US   I0*   7*1US   ILI   7*      2 6.8AS   a41X  66*  14.61ag
C.Ow"UMMVIMw 160 IStAIIOW
1. PbomI1                                                              is ee            is 0 0  I0.    0    0e    0.1  ILI 0e    0.1  0. 0e      t1    0o  4.0
a. Poop"  4n0S                             IA   0    Ia  t.    0.1r "        0*   0.1  0*   t0        . tt      0      r.t   0.         0.1  0.8   IA   0.   1
S. ft*O=a                                 ee60*1* ee10.10*                    0.10.10* ee10.              *       . e0.1 0*    0.1   0.1ee           . 6o 0.61*
4. T.sAdSd.ms                             0     "    04   0e           ee    0.   0.   0       0.0   OS  0.    0s            .     0   0.0  0.1   0.2 L.2  0.4
To14P -M    M inmurdpbAeW m              4*   IM   7*    1*    .1  0.4   1.8  1.1  0.4   OA 0  U                     0*    *    0     0*          4*   &I  7*2
0.60118IwM0M.6M0Ping7
I.*d. V  ak mdbepumm                      1.10* 1*          0*0*0.4    0.40*0.?    0.1   0.10*    0.1   0.10.                     a.1.10.           1.1   0.61.0
Te     W        UI          m            1.    eJ   O*    OA   OS 0.    ee    e    0e   0.   0.1  0           0.   e0 AG 0*                oe    t<   t.6  a4
UW&Qe  WWdtMfrefOwWw    Ie    e   SS    "    U   OA                                   97    OLI   at          ti   at   "    4e a    "            r.1   " 2v ne.n tY
T 5!|#4 _1 1            . SW4u  s                          am                          Al   Al  Al. Al   mg  mgeez u  e    at  jr   e   w    to    M6o  .es
ei ~ ~      ~      ~     ~      5    3835        58    3d  51r er   e.M t.t    u1 eE   5r             El t.t  ta    ae       10.4 4.1  353 2t    t4
&Nmgdaft      udooU 4umo,.-    -                            0*0.00.0 04.0. h0.10at    0.0   0.50.               0.0   1.11I*    0.    0.10.1    0.0   4.0  40
Wo    6m  4__   s                 nJ                     0.0s0.00.0 0.      8   0     .           OA. a0    0.   0.0  0s 8     0     0    0.1   la   0.0  1.8
ToWdd      ~    giW*M% #f                121   MS 1My   SU    0.4  OA   81.1  14.1 111   86I  11.2 65A   41.7   US60.?   41A  18.8 65*  16.   U6. 244.5
PI"5doow em                       -          -      0.0 0.   IA    1.8    *    *    IA   1.0  10    1.0  1.1  1.0    1     0.8  2.    7.4  4.1  11.0
P61451.              -    -    -    ~~~~~~~~11   0.60.?    4.4   1*6.6    6*    I*.1     0*   IS011A   10"    16116   31.1   al040.4
ls.                                       ae) UWdaIdsumo sodiobi. aees   e se We  ea  eoe Sgebaub didagS l0.0*Io         ea.q. oud0.0euear.0.            tO am.
~~~~~~~~ lui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nbaao
.db0diUup41Eom omiss4w.z* _ereThswuIus*as am  **                                                                       es ud       e. sbr a.o  s



- 51 -
IMOWEW: 6SVAAIUU*UWPMUTPUO
ANNEX I
Page 3
VLt WUPWn PROWtt -00ffl6PUA1eSWD1_tI
L*d P.s, luS  Low Fdet TdW  La  ftw4p td   LOW  ft#elb I   W  Lad ft46la   LdU P, Is Tad  LaOW fcd  TOM
0.1111MMURLY411111M M
1.La       _                                 e0.0 0.1    0.0e  oeteo    ee0 e0.0 0e       1      0.1    0.0ee0GA   0.0  0.0 0.0   0.1  tO 0.1
I 40A                                  0.8    1  1*   GA   0.1 eA0           t 0e    1.t a1  0          60   1.1  6A    GA   GA 0*   .      11 a .4 ICA
.Kt                             U.I  4.00.0     0   0.4 1*    01.    1.4 St   U           .         0     1 0s t.0.0 0 4e1e0 t             t02
.uLo                            1      t I   0    0*0                    0      0.   1.60S    0*0.eo t1    0.0o*0.0   1  0.  4.
4. Ou aIW.wermob
-Jb4S                           0 ea      GA ea    Qe  O  GA    So ee  0  GA ee      to ee       oi   OA ee 1   GA               GA eoeto  ea
GOe"Bdw                        la  eU  1.r  et  (4  l           GA   CA  064 e.      So e  *    GA   GA ea   er       So ee 61  1.r  QA  SIR
III20.4O 110.41        6    1    o to.~01 001.   0*0.   1.0           V   So.8.  0.10.00.1    M.10.VA
11*e  _   na  10.8 0  IA   0.1  U    ee   ta  .4G   1.6  e4  1.  4      .6                  LO S4 e1 ea   U1,
a        _ tesmgow                      1     0      U 4 S        Q60   GA * 0.00.o    t.1.1             1 *0 . * er as  4       1.6 A       "       a11.0
,____A1wGW**A41. t0  t16 Us    19   1A  4.2  4a   0   0                               VA  1TA  144   7.1  4* 11.4   0.4  IA  4    t0  I"  41
I. L                                    1   00  U1   1.1  0.0  1.       e   a0 ea   0*   0.   e           e               t 0.   0*  0    S   to 0 .
I C 0  _                               17.   &2 a"    0.10.41.          0.00.           4 0.10 So   4.6         te       0    So .t 4 *0.411*34 .?
*US                             0.00*0*    00e 0e1e      1   0 .00 eO e                             0e0 Q  A ea   Qs             0 . 00  0o
-LO                             to l0    &I   0.ea       .0     0.400 eJ                         0.e0*0.         0.* 0.6           e OA  1 4.0
-b_A.                           1*   OA 1e        0*   0.0   *   0.   0.0  0* ea      0.  0    0    0S           0.4  OA  0.4  1.   0.0  1.*
-OU6iOdSd                       0*0*1*s   0.   " O         Le  0    t*    "       *0.104 O    0 .        0 4A   OA0 0.1  .A    1* 0.4 1.7
06.4  10.  4*   1.A  3* 16A   0    IS0  VA        1   VA  0.6   6*   01  04A   1.1  0.I 102  SIA  I0.  44*
0 oSo   1*  0                                           GA   0.A  1.1  0.   0.07 1e        0* ee    ea   0. eJ    ea     0.      067   U    I.4  40
a   _     chNd                           I I.7 0.  ? 4   0.4  e      ee           .7 0.7 0     *     1.0 U        IA    1*0.11.0            .       01*Vta
T4b1C1SNl -a    1.                             4L*   0L1   04 1II   "    t 06          71   SS 1"    1*a  a*            1 0   40* 10.   OA   I0  5
1. P_ _P- pm                           GA   0*  l.    0*   0 e 0.4                e a 0.4   0.0  0.  0S   0.   060  0.1   0              t 0o 0.6  1.1
a0 P        NLma                       0    0.  GA   0.1  0.1  0    0.1  061  0*   0.1  0.   0    0.   0.1               0.   II U       0.0  0.0  0.0
0.Pl*d-lmgs.b                          0.   0640.' 0341 0.1     61 0.1   0.1 0.101    0.1   0.10.1   0.  .0.1 061.I01   0.10.1             0.4  0.40.
0T4OdaWOu@.                           0.1 .I1GA   GA*0.00.1            "  0.0*01    So**0.1    0.00*0.1    60.00.00.                    0.1  0.10.s
TrWa         _ __A_mdadb    d         IA 1t tJ        0.   0.4  0*   GA   0.4  GA    0*   ea  0.    Ga   es  0.4   0*   e   0.4  IA   1*  So
0.111INITUIILO.MEoAOs
I. t_ _aommg _I                        0.4   0   0.1  0.1    1 e        0    0.1   *   0.   0.  0.1 0e1   0.1  0.1   0    0.1  0.   0.4  0.0  0?
I .6sdwadmm                            0.00.00.         0.00.00.0    0.00.00.           0.00.00*              0.00       0.000.00    0.0to0.0  00
?4W~~adadS~RuaumSaihpmM   0.44    *  0.1  0.1  0.1  08            0.1  0*   0.   0.1  0.1   061  0.1  0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1   0.4  0.00.
WI 313E  ill lullf                     uin  isa Im     ii  l 1*3   111 1*1  3131100*
M*Wd*IOmIuImllf%O-ffm.d41*-m   -    -    -    0.0  0.0  0.    00                   .    0.0  0.1  0.1   0.0  1.1  1.1   0*   IA  IA4   0.0  0.0  0.6
L d-   -    -    0.   0.  0.   0.0 0.0                                            0. oo      0.  0.   0.   0.  0.   0.   0.0  0.0  0.0o  0.o 0o
t4Wo *w wcodura                       Itw  a. as    10*   0   11*   hA        011.1  t1   114  at   as   *A Sa    1A    *0             6 t 0a as 100.6
p4Sd69 O                                                              I -    -    - eo  0e  0oe O. ea0  0.   ee A.l  IA . e t* e e 04 0 .0  o  0o   0104
hh.uda~~~~~~m.      -    -    - ~~~~~ 1*0*1*    I*0*0.1    01  1*4.0     0 1.10.0    0.2OS4*10.t1    4.010.1
_Nd..                       *                           R0   ee  eo   Qe    e  oe1ee0ee  ee   ee   ee   e   ee   ee  ao   eo   oo  o.
*__  "O                                                                                                                                           tot  7 tz et.t 0 ts Sa = 4 eZet
~~~~~~~~~ N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,mpdm..od"A!S  SmwvOW
awk  *dmw  It
0  -..  -dasduU.ssb                tb.dddawumdst  o.t.              d0.eJ  sd   tr   tJ  ae   aa 1*Iucdsauugssbsaa  es .0*    alis l*4dW.0 
Os~lsdu~ad~s.4sa~6ss4iaMw.Uaobbessaeasg10046baNubasug.uum.. d1u.aa~msOpwadspsw.hacosubtMaihISle cm,.
#a  ltMpm¢*                   sss_sbs*uPdMd dineu_. eo                                                              0*tbs*p__4*6Sa.
cmm01SKdsus.ads



- 52 -
UIOUI:E wAUVAAMIOUUMWOEPaMUTPAMI
ANNEX 1
Page4
0UM.SAAWAMptm0It*pA0-00Pw1nAw8MRM= N
am*ld  UtomwYa'IS1i  FUMVV wUbtS        v*oinI     UtOUYw1Uiu5 Ufinmai0UU     TOU,..m
au.'ou piu       ph.     o"dmaa  d     mdW"o         - -wote    oinadeib..U       owngdoo
Sul fouw Tod Lo hd a4 Too W     sYa La  w t   a   o ftap Tow Lad tpe  Tom  Lad ftw  TOW Sim POW TOW
ILohdu" .                     0o00.00.0   000000NS 00000   0.00000   0.000 0.000.0  0.00.00.
2.OMwoit*                      1.5 1.02.    0.0S 00.    0.40640OL.?   11 *0.%  0.0.0.    000.0 00  10.0.
LeeUY                       to                   OA                             OAS  OA Olll              *L _c
8. 0oop
-LOS               0.008~U U0.0  OA00I0LI 0.00.0A  SO0.0.               .0.0.          .000.0  0.00.00.
1Aft0I0 S                 0.1 T_64           A1 0 0   0.000.0   0.1   0S.1  0 . to.
T4WaiK Umuds ~           0.7  08 1*s  Go  OA 0o         Ts 10 S * e   eg  4*  eo       1.1 o  o   1.1 eo 4 eo* c0ar
-ew"dhg                  -       -   0. 0 e  0.0 ee0 ee         0.1010.    A 00.0 0.0  0.0e0e ee  ee 4   L .1.1
P__mdhRD                - -           0        0   OA   ee ee      0.e0*01    8 80        S.0 00.0   0e..1 .o 
owwnfto-OkV0Wupwsm1gmapWuM
r____~~~~~~O  OA  "   OA   4                     SO               OLO "  7     "   OA                OA  G..t . . 4t At
_. P                     IA  I.* It   OA  0e4     U     IOASO  e.1 ILI   Ualto1 OJ  e   e      eu.7  e
I AoUwim  UiENi0SnU            04  0.4 0   IL4  0.4 081  081  0  ILI  08  0.0 0I  at  081 081  0   08 08  0.4  0.  08
4. TPpuMafbam                  1.  1.  *   . 0.4"   0.0  0.40.  0   SO1  OA 0*1  0.  40.  0.0  0.  0.0i 0.02. 1.  31
S.P,*oS~~~mog         0.02 0.  0.   .  0.0      0.  0.0 0.0  ILI  0.  08  0.  0.0 0.  0.  0.  0.0  0.0  0.0 OA0
a TObeodbmgw                   01  01 0.  SO  OA  0.  0.0  0.  0.  060  0.  0.  0.  0.  0.  0.0  00 0.1  0*  0  04
U    _ U  U              _  Y OAU  IA_   U   U  IA  U0 U IIO         0.7 I      T 13 31
t Pd.    "_ N'headbubodsI.ilIbadi aia aSkei eJ ue.  e
tidet_e    ee    ee  e    ee   ee    ee    e   eo    ee   ee    ee



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
4A$_
Lew ft   g 16  L%  PI to  1 _o1 11  Pewt Tow  LOW fuap 116  lu   _  Tow  LOW  P  TOO 1am fomk TOtaW
l.Loeaft.                                                   as00   0   as eo          to e e0   0.1  0. e     0.0        0 0    0.0  0.6
a oWuli                            1A    a1 US   1.1  .6  1.1   04  1   "             1.4.44 40    tt ttU   a4 2 .04   SLY 0       .7   4.0
20a~
.n                           CT 111 *2.1  IA  1t  U4  1.t  Is  a    U   7.4 tU   ?U A4SV    "   e.?  1.4 1U   1*4. M
-COS                         4*0.000I41.0     0.1    11.4   00tU.1 1e.                                 0        .     0.U0 tA  LO   e 03.  0? e.4 t2t
4. _ _ 4 _ _
,-_u                         0.00.00.0           Qa    t    . 10 .   at   0       0       s 0.0.00 "    t    .0.1   0.S  .000 to
6h0    O         t_t_t4   1.0  4* " AS   ats ar0       t   " 0.0    "  t  *S       " 6*    ae 0.1  2   0.1as*  1.0  40  1.90  0
ago                 ILI, _to04 se4  Is  00    .   ee   4  "A.4 Ie               t LI  113 es   0t      4* 125  6L?  0.4  W
• owdo_omb"                        itt  Its 4"       t      as tu    V g        t   ti aWtsr as   TA "I                49  S"      S 4sX t
0. OimpnootW                        is?  12*  as   0     .        &I0.  0.  0.*  11  0.0  OA   1*  2.0 10*   0*   2   0 1 15*  12.0 340
TddwjIwe4**&-Im151  40.4 "LI   0.1  4.6 14   10.4  0. SU*  SLY  10.  MG   UA 3            10.0 41* 1    .? 5*   GIA  40. 11150
1. LMOOVAIW48as04*    .1 0.0 .1   1*0.01.2   0*0.0                                    0.1.00.    0.40.00.4    "*0.06St
a OWu_ib                            W.1  ee       10. at   e U    t1   7.0oe     100t3         I" e     2L?  1e.4  6AS    10   1. I.o
-150                          00* *    tr.00         .      .00.00*    e7.00at                              t  ra 7.104 *r t LS   0.ao 0 0.1   0.0  as0.
-LS                          1*s0 as 11.4  1t 0.   t0   ao01t   4         W    A 1e  I.t  a.2 St   U1  o.010.1   401 14.0
4. SD16Md I tapW01
*b.bm                          00.00I   e    as   O0 0 o   1.1  t 01.1  1.1  0.0e1.1  1. *       1.1 ee  t.0    0.4  0o0 *4
2.  1.1 t  J       (0.) 0    0   0.  IS   0    0   1i            0     1.0 is  0.4  1.4  a7   1.4  t.
INS  M0 111e  tSO  "  SU4  SA   Ws OA.4  US  "  IL4   AS*            S" 3*   0      SU  1U   40. 140
6 omtimiwt                         1O  ae Sal   "    C ? 6f       *        .    0     ae  O Se as            as*       Al  10. 4ts 124
a kams0                            1ta7 0. ta4   1.1 os1.1             1.1 V     .0   IA  44   "   1*0.L    0.02.10.110.    7.124.0
Tdolo"_64m_                      W"0.4    40 S 3     6* 1.          II* ILI  US  11.1 Wt    s  11ar S0  O.4  1   4rJ 1S00  GL7 tU0.4
2t.waib                             1.  1* e       0.0  0. e      04  0.  0.1 1oe  1e  &I                                    to 00 1ee  e0
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I CW                       GS tJ                             OA             OA ee  ee                          *S J    tt    5   t G    e    e e  ee  e 183
-L"                                                                                as.00*    000.    0  0e 0e  0*0.0 0 t0 00  0.00.0
4. OnWeaaW.2."UIm1
-619Um                       0.10*0.1    6*.0                   OA16 0.1    0.00S00.t00.                              0.1  0.00.1
=5erbs"                      0 at                0        tt    6f  a* e   t  tS  a2   0e           0ee               4.    0.0 1
foloO_delo _me_m                   OA.4  0.4  6    0.4  0.4  0*   e    ee   ee        0e ee  ee4  0.4  0.0
1.  _     _p                        at  a7 72 .     s   is  ae O   s i0s        ae      as e   0. ea     *s  0.1  0.1      27  2. a    .0
*.tSmph                             2. 4   eJ  at1  0s  e*  0s   es  0*  0.0  0*   0   ee   es5  0   e*   .6  0*  0.   2.4  05t 2.
a  t     _-AWN                      t4  sD  t5t  eX    2  CS4  OS  es  eA   os  "s  WS  es   e                                     " eso  to1o
& p,bdwmmmda                        1.0  1.0  1*    *   0*  0.4  0.   0   0.4    .   0*  0.4  0*  0.  04   0. 0   04A  Is  1.0  1.0
4. Teti e                           0    0A  1.1  0.1  0.1  02   0.    t  0    0.1  0.1  0*   0    0.1  0*   0.  0.1  0*   0.0  0.0  I I
T16_            _ t _~ ~           i   tU  t4    0s  ae  4*   as  2*  4*   1*  0.1  t.r  Is   0   11.1  ea   0 s   7   0. 10.
t.   _      _ _maM~ainu            2AL   10 2.4                  OA   0   1     0 0       0f 0s  e2  0.   0*   0*  04   .1  1.3  3.4
a oSAm                              0 e   *  0    0.0  0. .4 OA 0.1  es  ee   0*  0.0  0    e 06  0.6 es            0.  0.0  0.0  2.0  3
ToWaudmam..                       te  4.0  0    0   0.u  e*.7   1.0 tJ    e    6* e      eJ   0.4  eJ  1.2  0.4  OA  1.2   t    4.0  0.
Am =mu  W1 at sW e  EA i  at au IN mu as inD a  as W m o" Mt
Wmi- auSoWmomUOS._gj.tam  -   -   -    ee  0.0  0.0  eD  e*  0*   0.0  2   2    0.0  2.6  0.0  0.0  4.0  4.   0.  11.1 M1.1
UuWSa16m15m4.t6_4.a,.               -   -   -    0*  0S                U         0ea . 06  U                  as t0   .  CtS   1 0   0*   0    *   0.0  1*
101*"LI15S"   SU   10 4*  42.1  02. 14.   2.1  U*A US  U.S  $1.5*3    3.1  V*62.I 2MU. 134. 004
~i_ _~.                      -   .   -    tJ   0   "    2*  1.7  6*   U2  1*  4.4             IA 4ta   21 U      I.S  11.1  1.0 tO
_  -   -   -    0.4  0   4a   0.   a2  0             14*  I0   0.1 It? a tt 1 U   080.   44*  1tar  50
_ _  I.4M .m. g a  mI0%s                  St.dsia
40_               _     _ Uu_6Uu1imasbSa6u.Wuu1mbaaos at oWd  t9**IsUmswat, I.0*O06r6M  I*34gtI
___u0b0tbm1160*bwgatutamt                                                                                         _1.   0
bSaX n.aU2.1tOrah.            _ twsg. _auaa bSaau      ShW6 d*7  tOMSa    _Upeau1.hb         Seaet&04IO
aUdsEm1.tm*  1 __4m                       t t16otd_dmht"0*Mf~SrSaa0ei*_*lMUUWut*OUSaiaOoWUe



- 54 -
NOONE: ISWJAVAAMD MAU UIJWNS V OPUENT PMWT
IIEOT f, " tlMKmMV                                                                                 ANNEX 2
A  1"*Uuuftf* VW O&U                  SUutamgmala  W1O*l.0100
E_R:U@  o                                   PSian
A. 0wrab'aremnd OW                                      ea                 117                 67.
0. PruguuMuqpw SUP*d          ua                                            1
0. tnsllWUmid 1Humm
Rtwu"em O"ptrt                                         tOt"                                    t
bllrmdu*lg6nstnhoUa                                      24.8               1*                  6.8
TWA *ih        u _ _.                                                      684               1tOO
t. Y^IIIAV&%YM LUY MOM
am~~~9fr vwa                                           A7
0w,azLoo~Srpply Enwpl
- baeowln ts  2wlml                                14                t2*                        76.
-lfiIsmalflauws@tbwestmmt                          0*                 0.1                        08
Dulpapis             m                                10Pt12             O                          ao
011w, guI a.ismsw.                                    0.0                O                          oo0.0
1wmduudngeomwu n                                      6.8          2tO1
TOM                                                                         171 16.7            4     160.
- bw i                                             f                 10.7                         .0
*-    ai  aIs d prspwtnSex                       86*                404                         118
- lW lapawfitoralls4                                                  16.7                       OA
-WaWurA           usdt ealeoo
-bnoo frorweumut                                                 au 6.                      10.0
-sa aWe  WMOW4                                   210                                            as
-bwm t mi_ of O&M                                 eoU                ILT                        14A"
--.s_nn'dh~euliundlag                                2tA                 161                        0.7
Sub46eolsrafudi,  ne161                                                  6                          1
_ ! ¢t u ihwlai                                     6K?                 USA                        6t
.- _t_"WN*w
-far oSitradguMumf oQW, uep.auilUU                  166.7              7Y0                          0A4
-farmlanagsusmsntoe panP.  ld                       144*3               76*                        21*
-kItsreuidwlngoawlmdtlon                              6.4                1A                         2A
0wb4dteA gtm          MbMi                          USA                 l6"                        46.
Y~~~~~~~~~~~~7.                                              660.                66.    100*
oduot- te MO duftlO 47.4                                                s87
-lnad      o                                      11.0 tt                                1* 
-I h      ed uinoawuwdg                           "A                 12t9                6.
m     atbt 01 praiD_OU                              41                  1M0A                0
_wsmms8 _ t                                            0                 42                  1.1
TOTLOOMMRJ                                                                 1                   404   100.
LofadurqaLi~~~~1srEuwsrpds.           1~~1.1               11.1                        OA0
_ur*vde*p  t&eupwo        ut                          12                 *A                         0*4
FInles sfut cow  ti     _WWqamarmwV 0.0
t.afatirhaawlosreewspd                               61A                 7*                        14A8
tow  b loom  _ _s"rm                                 Wa                  9A
Lm   br_dw*-                -          L              to                                            OA
aw   -   gse -rnnin                                   8                  6t*w                       8
-farosnidgwvsmnmewsown mporabds.                 111.*               8681.7
-bud rgunPo'                                      44.8               76.0                       4
h d4               IA                 eJ



_  55 _                     ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA - BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The following summarizes agreed technical requirements to support the
execution of the EJBUDP expenditure programs and related strengthening of
institutional capacities. The project includes three kinds of technical
assistances (a) engineering design and supervision; (b) program
implementation, including (i) program and subproject preparation and
(ii) program management; an# (c) institutional development, including
(i) municipal management improvement and (ii) sector development. All
proposed contract are summarized briefly below. Full terms of reference
(TOR), shortliste and procurement schedules would be confirmed with GOI at
negotiation.
A. Engineering Design and Supervision
1.   Engineering Design and Supervision Services
Executing Agency
Ministry of Public Works with respective provincial DPUPs.
Objectives
To supplement and accelerate the in-house engineering design process of
local and provincial public works staff in both provinces. An identified
pool of qualified local and (for water supply) foreignengineering
consultants will be retained to provide sub-project engineering services
on a task-order basis, to supplement DPU capabilities. It is anticipated
that all water supply sub-projects and approximately one-half of other
sub-projects will be designed by the pool of consultants. This procedure
should (a) improve design quality, (b) allow for improved supervision by
DPUP staff using normal DIPDA overheads, and (c) accelerate design of
complex subprojects to allow an appropriate review cycle (unlike current
INPRES and DIPIDIPDA schedules which require full preparation within the
fiscal year of implementation).
Duration of Services
April 1990 - March 1994.



ANNEX 3
- 56 -                           Page 2
Costss (includes $0.4 million of PPF)
Months          $ Million
International consultants (water supply)       200              3.00
National consultants                          2,280             9.12
Total                                                     12.12
2.   Provincial Dinas PU Engineerina and Supervision Advisors
Executing Agency
Ministry of Public Works with respective provincial DPUPs
Objectives                  I
To assist each provincial DPUP to develop necessary procedures and staff
skills for assistance to local governments in review of subproject
engineering aesign and appropriate supervision programs for all sub-
projects in annual expenditure programs. These foreign advisors would
assist during the early years of implementation to establish andlor
strengthen DPUP management and technical capacities, personnel
requirements and training needs to assure effective technical support by
DPUP to local governments, as well as capacity to execute the provincial
subprojects and O&M responsibilities of the program.
Duration of Services
January 1991 - March 1995
Costs:
months          $ Million
International consultants                      60               0.90
National consultants                            60              0.25
Computer, equipment, etc.                                       0.10
Total                                                      1.25
B. Program Management
3. Proiect Pteparation Facility
Executing Agency
Ministry of Public Works (DGCK)
Obiectives
Complete preparation of Batch I local government programs and EJBUDP
documentation in detail sufficient for appraisal.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Duration of Services
August 1989 - April 1990 (already completed)
Costs (in addition to TA package 1 above,                $1.1 Million
design services)
4.   Batch II/III Program Preparation and Related Start-up Support
Executing Agency
Ministry of Public Works (DGCK) and provincial BAPPEDAs
Objectives
To complete revisions to Batch I programs agreed during appraisal and to
extend preparation effort to Batch II local governments (13 in East Java
and the remaining 4 in Bali) to be ready for implementation during GOI FY
1991/92 and a Batch III local governments (13 in East Java) for
implementation beginning in FY 1992/93 to complete coverage of all local
governments in both provinces.
Duration of Services
April 1990 - April 1992
Costs:
Months          $ Million
International consultants                      96                1.4
National consultants                          564                2.3
Equipment, training, etc.                                        0.2
Total                                                       3.9
5.   ANDAL Preparation Assistance
Executing Aaency
Ministry of Public Works (DGCK and BALITBANG)
Obiectives
To provide necessary financing for detailed environmental assessments
(ANDAL studies) of the impact of selected sub-projects identifi.-d during
preliminary screening as having potentially significant environmental
effects. National consultants would be employed to conduct ANDAL studies
for all but the most complex subprojects.
Duration of Services
June 1990 - December 1991



ANNEX 3
-58 -                            Page 4
Costs:
Months          S Million
International consultants                       32               0.5
National consultants                           150               0.6
Total                                                       1.1
6.   Appraisal Support to Provincial BAPPEDA
Executing Agency
Ministry of Public Works (DGCK) and provincial BAPPEDAs
Objectives                  I
To continue provision of advisory support to both provincial appraisal
teams based at the respective BAPPEDA I offices through completion of the
project focus would be on preparation and appraisal of Batch II and III
local expenditure programs and related subproject investment proposals,
and on new subprojects proposed during the annual budget process.
Advisors would continue to refine appraisal criteria and process
documentation, including coordination with the environmental assessment
process (AMDAL), as noted in TA package 5. Training of BAPPEDA
counterpart staff and dissemination of appraisal criteria and methods to
local governments will also be key features of the effort.
Duration of Services
April 1990 - April 1992
Costs:
Months          $ Million
International consultants                       32               0.5
National consultants                           125               0.5
Computers, workshops, etc.                      ^                0.2
Total                                                       1.2
7.   RIAP and LIDAP Implementation Support
Executing Agency
Ministry of Home Affairs (PUOD and BANGDA) with provinces.
Objectives
To support central and provincial teams in assisting, supporting and
monitoring local government implementation of Revenue Improvement Action
Plans (RIAPs) and Local Institutional Development Action Plans (LIDAPs)
prepared for each local government under the IUIDP process. The central



ANNEX 3
_ 59 _                        Page S
team would focus on needed regulatory and administrative revisions to
facilitate local actions, while provincial teams work directly with
active local governments and prepare monitoring reports on progress and
results to date.
Duration of Services
January 1991 - December 1994
Costs:
Months          $ Million
International consultants (3 x 12 mo.)         36                0.5
National consultant (3 x 48 mo.)              144                0.6
Total                                                       1.1
8.  Advisors to Provincial Management and Development Units (PMDUs for Water
Supply Enterprises)
Executing Agency
Ministry of Public Works with MHA(PUOD)
oblectives
To provide long-term advisory support for continued development and
strengthening of the PMDUs in each province to assist and guide local
water enterprises (PDAMs) to improve operations, maintenance and
management of water supply systems, with special emphasis on assisting
the conversion of interim enterprises (DGCK-owned BPAMs) to fully
operational PDAM units of local government. PMDU advisors would also
assist in monitoring O&M and investment subprojects of all water
enterprises supported under the project.
Duration of Services
January 1991 - December 1994
Costs:
Months          $ Million
International consultants                      36                0.5
National consultants                          125                0.5
Total                                                  1.0



ANNEX 3
-60-                             Page 6
9.   Support to Provincial and Locai Manaaement Offices (PMOs)
Executing Aaency
Ministry of Public Works (DGCK) and BAPPENAS with provincial BAPPEDAs
Objectives
To provide necessary local and foreign advisory support for the operation
of provincial PPMOs to assist overall managerment and coordination of the
IUIDP process for all local governments, including the preparation and
updating of multi-year expenditure programs, RIAP and LIDAP documents,
and annual budgets for implementation, as well as EJBUDP operational
management including progress reporting, physical and financial
monitoring, accounting and auditing arrangements, and related
administrative supervision arrangements.
Duration of Services
January 1991 - December 1993
Costs:
Months          $ Million
International consultants (2 x 36 %uo.)        72                1.0
National consultants                          192                0.8
Computers, equipment, etc.                                       0.1
Total                                                       1.9
10. Support to Central Program Management Office
Executing Agency
Ministry of Public Works (DGCK)
Objectives
To continue support for the DGCK operated CPMO established under previous
Bank and ADB assistance to serve as the central point for urban project
performance monitoring and reporting. CPMO would continue to have
responsibility for coordination of DGCK implementation support to
regionally-based programs including the EJBUDP. Local consultants
financed by this TA would join others from parallel operations to perform
the CPMO functions nationwide.
Duration of Services
January 1991 - March 1994



ANNEX 3
- 61 -                         Page 7
Costs:
Months          $ Million
International consultants                       12             0.2
National consultants                            80             0.3
Total                                                      0.5
11. Program Accounting
Executing Agency
Ministry of Public Works (DGCK) with MHA (PUOD)
Obiectives
To design, install and train local government staff to operate a
computerized memorandum accounts system covering all expenditure program
entries for each local government in the EJBUDP. Work has been initiated
for system design and installation in Batch I local governments. System
includes creation of provincial and central program summary accounts for
budgeting and monitoring purposes, and the staffing of Central,
Provincial and Local Program Finance Offices (CPFO, PPFOs and PFOs) to
oversee financial reporting and auditing arrangements for the program.
(Necessary computers to be purchased and installed also).
Duration of Services
April 1990 - March 1995
Costs$
Months          $ Million
National consultants                          400               1.6
12. Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Management System Implementation
Executing Agency
Ministry of Home Affairs (PUOD)
Obiectives
To install a simplified version of the Performance-based Operations and
Maintenance Management System (POMS), developed under previous Bank
assistance, in all 13 Batch I local governments. Staff of targeted Batch
I local governments and provincial DPUPs would be trained to apply the
management, programming and budgeting techniques of the POMMS approach to
eventually upgrade O&H activities in all local governments in both
provinces, in accordance with IUIDP guidelines and expenditure program
targets. Emphasis will be on development of local capacity to prepare



ANNEX 3
- 62 -                           Page 8
and execute annual O&M programs consistent with HRA KEPMIN 5 of 1990 and
associated guidelines.
Duration of Services
January 1991 - DecembeL 1992
Costss
Months          $ Million
International consultants                      24                0.4
National consultant                           250                1.0
Computers, equipment, etc.                      -                0.2
Total                                                       1.6
C. Institutional Development
13. Local Government Financial Accounting and Management Reform
Executing Agency
Ministry of Home Affairs (PUOD)
Obiectives
To establish in the Directorate for Regional Finance in Directorate-
General PUOD a full-time regional government financial management
improvement technical unit comprising designated MHA personnel
supported by specialist consultants. The unit's tasks would be to
review, improve and coordinate the design of existing regional
government financial management improvement initiatives in the
fields of computerized financial accounting, revenues administration
(MAPATDA), operations and maintenance administration (POMM5), annual
budgeting systems and procedures, and medium-term financial planning
and programming; to develop GOI proprietary software as necessary:
to supervise and coordinate the introdcution and/or replication of
the initiatives in selected regional governments; to monitor
implementation progress and identify, effect and promulgate
necessary improvements to systems and software. Other IBRD projects
would be expected to participate in continuance of funding for the
unit, once established. Batch I local governments in EJBUDP would
be given first priority for the introdcution of the improved systems
when developed to a satisfactory level.
Duration of Services
July 1991 - December 1993



-63 -                    ANNEX 3
Page 9
Costss
Months          $ Million
International consultants (short term inputs) 12                0.20
National consultants (full time)              100               0.40
Computers, equipment, etc.                                      0.20
Total                                                 0.80
14. AMDAL Institutional Development
Executing Agency
Ministry of Public Works (DGCK and BALITBANG)
Obiectives
To support institutional development of the provincial environmental
comissions (komisi daerah) and other key participants in the
environmental assessment and management process. Initial focus
would be on a critical region of East Java: the inventory of
existing environmental data, design of an environmental database and
monitoring system, and training of concerned officials in
environmental management and assessment.
Duration of Services
January 1991 - December 1993
Costs:
Months          $ Million
International consultants                       12               0.2
National consultants                            24               0.1
Total                                                  0.3
15. IUIDP Training
Executing Agency
Ministry of Public Works (DGCK) with Provincial Training Agencies
(DIKLAT) and Provincial Program Management Office
Oblective
To prepare and carry out a structured series of workshops for local,
provincial and a limited number of central 001 staff responsible for
implementation of the EJIUDB. Emphasis would be on practit. l
methods for preparation, and management and monitoring of IlUIDP
expenditure programs, financing plans, revenue improvement program



ANNEX 3
- 64 -                           Page 10
and institutional development programs. Particular attention would
be given to Batch II and III local governments and to transfer of
training roles to cabable and interested permanent training
institutions promptly upon their identification. It is tentatively
agreed that facilities of the Provincial training Agency (DIKLAT
Propinsi) will provide physical facilities for the training.
Duration of Services
January 1991 - December 1993
CostsJ
Months          $ Million
International consultants  ,                    13               0.2
National consultants                           130               0.5
Total                                                  0.7
16. IUIDP Implementation Supgort Proiect
Executing Agency
United Nations Center for Housing and Settlement/UNDP (BAPPENAS)
Obiectives
To provide $2.0 million in parallel co-financing support for the
$8.2 million UN¢HSIUNDP executed project which is already effective
and would provide a broad range of support services in the
implementation of the EJBUDP and other IUIDP - based projects.
Duration of Services
April 1990 - March 1993
Costs$
Months          $ Million
Cost-sharing contribution                                        2.0
17. Preparation of Future Projects
Duration of Services
Undecided



ANNEX 3
- 65 -                            Page 11
Costs:
Months           $ Million
Consultant services                                -               1.5
GRAtiD TOTAL
Identified international            637                9.5
Identified national               4,624               18.57
Identified workshops, etc.                             1.0
Unidentified                                           4.6
Total                                              33.67



aS  ^VA - SM 1! 6    UW N                T
FY 90/91           FY 91/92            FY 92/93            F! 93/94             FY 94/95            FY 95/96
Q4arters                                                 4 2    a   4    1    2               84       1   2      a4    1    2    a   4
Batch 1: Program Fina-
lization Including
First Year Project.
Batch 11 a III: Program
Proepaation
Water Supply:
Project Preparation
Equipment Procurement
Civil Works Construct.                 -        -                      t
Other Infrastructure:                                                                                     E- -
Project Preparation          _                                                                                             _
Equipment Procureomet
Civil Works Construct.
Operations A Mainteance
-Current
Operations & Maintenance
T ohical Assistae For                              _    _               _                                   1           1    1    11
- nti~tutonal                                   -T                          i     
eve"lopment                             -   -L
- Prga  Proearation
(Batch II A III)
- Prga  and Project
Aprisal Advisors                      n~
- RIAP & LIDAP lRple. 
- Future Project Prop.                                                                                                       -



ANMEX 4B
- 67 -                       Page 1
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA - BALI URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Summary of Key Atency Responsibilities By Project Component
Responsibilities for implementation of specific components and
subcomponents of the proposed project would be assigned to different agencies
and levels of government according to current GOI policies and practices.
(a) Under Component A of the proposed project (Infrastructure Develop-
ment and O&M):
(1)  DGCK and DGBM with support of the Central Program Management
and Finance Offices (CPMO and CPFO) would be responsible for
technical supervision of all infrastructure and O&M, and they
would implement all such infrastructure and O&E under national
responsibility;
(2) Provincial BAPPEDAs with support of the Provincial Program
Management and Finance Offices (PPMOs and PPFOs) would be
responsible for program and subproject appraisal and
monitoring;
(3)  Provincial DPUPs would implement all infrastructure and O&M
under provincial responsibility; and
(4)  Local government BAPPEDAs supported by higher levels of
government and by Program Management and Finsnce Offices (PMOs
and PFOs) would be responsible for coordination of field-level
planning and implementaiton;
(5)  Local DPUKs and PDAMs would implement all infrastructure under
local government responsibility.
(b) Under Component B of the proposed project (Program Management)s
(1)  MPW, DGCK and DGBM with the concerned provincial agencies, as
appropriate, would implement subcomponents concerned with:
(i) further program and subproject preparation and (ii)
management of program implementation; and
(2)  NRA would implement subcomponents supporting (i) implementation
of revenue and institutional development action programs; and
(ii) O&M management system reform.
(c) Under Component C of the proposed project (Institutional Develop-
ment):



ANNEX 4B
68 -                       Page 2
(1) MHA would implement subcomponents concerned with revenue
administration and financial accounting and management programs
and environmental institutional development;
(2) BAPPENAS would implement the UNDP/UNCHS IUIDP Implementation
Support Project (INS/88/021); Development;
(3) DOCK would implement preparation of future projects under sub-
component; and
(4) MHA and DGCK would implement training in IUIDP processes.



*                 *                        *
-    ^~~~~
ffllth    rTTj I WE3n   rrt fi   II~~~~~~~~~~~~~
B   .t >  |  4       |     r  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,,    11|1  -1    11    '' 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.   ^           ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,   .   .  g  =  i  ----' IjlI}I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
F---'GD-          I      . - - lglU  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E  1        1                1|1n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1         .         I    --111r1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
e        . u    A~~~~~~~~~~~~
. I1
S             g   .            u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 4C
7r) -                        Page 1
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA - BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program and Subproject Preparation and Appraisal Process
The East Java-Bali Expenditure Programs: The expenditure programs
for East Java and Bali for the five year period (90/91 - 94/95) were prepared
separately, starting with expenditure programs prepared for individual Batch I
local governments. The two programs were combined and components for program
implementatio institutional development were added to develop, implement and
sustain the overall provinc$al programs.
Provincial Programs: The two provincial programs cover 44 local
governments (Kabupatens and Kotamadyas), with 36 in East Java and 8 in Bali.
The East Java local governments were divided into three batchest Batch I (9
kabupatens), Batch II (13 kabupatens/kotamadyas) and Batch II (13
Pebupatens/kotamadyas. The Bali local governments were divided into two
batches containing 4 kabupatens each. The provincial expenditure programs
were based on the study of 9 Batch I East Java kabupatens and 4 Bali Batch I
kabupatens. To develop the provincial expenditure programs, grossing up was
done based on Batch I kabupatens for each province and other factors such as
population, per capita urban development grants and expenditures. In the case
of Bali, only 3 Kabupatens (excluding Badung) were used for the grossing up
exercise, as the size of the Badung program would have distorted the
projection. Subprojects were prepared to preliminary engineering level,
specifically for subprojects valued over Rp 400 million.
Subsector Coverages Seven infrastructure subsectors were included,
namely, water supply, drainage, solid waste services, sanitation, urban roads,
kampung improvement and market infrastructure improvement, in accordance with
Cipta Karya guidelines. The programs also include operations and maintenance
(O&H) expenditures designated as (a) the existing level of O&M,
(b) incremental O&M required to provide a reasonable level of O&M for
existing, rehabilitated and new infrastructure. Subproject selection and
design criteria conform to national IUIDP guidelines and technical memoranda
developed during project preparation. The subsector coverage includes all
infrastructure irrespective of responsibility by central, provincial or local
governments. Responsibilities were formally assigned in 1988 by a GOI
directive, PP 14 (1988). Central and provincial subprojects were required to
conform to the IUlDP guidelines.
LIDAPs and RIAPs. Costs for implementing institutional and
financial improvements such as addition of new staff (financed under SDO) are
also included for each local government.
Local Government Expenditures Programs. For each of the Batch I
local governments, an expenditure program has been prepared covering all of
the above items. In preparation of the program the following factors were



AMNEX 4C
71                            Page 2
taken into accounts (a) per capita urban expenditure, (b) infrastructure
deficiencies especially rehabilitation and priority infrastructure needs,
(c) demand assessments and willingness to pay, and (d) special needs as in
waters stress areas. Overheads for management of the program has been allowed
at 2 percent for all infrastructure (except for water supply), and 7 percent
for design and supervision part of which will be contracted out. For water
supply, overheads of 14 percent has been allowed in addition to 11 percent for
detailed design and supervision, all of which would be done through contract.
Price escalation has been allowed as follows: local 7.0 percent for 1990/91,
6.0 percent for 1991/92 and thereafter, Foreign 5.4 percent for 1990/91 and
4.3 percent for 1991/92 and thereafter. Total program costs in current prices
with yearly funds requirements were developed. Foreign and local splits of
expenditure items were estimated, as were taxes and duties. Financing plans
were also developed using known funding channels for each subsector. The
borrowing capacity of each local government was established and estimates of
borrowing for water supply (for PDAMs), solid waste services and sanitation
were agreed with the local governments.
Appraisal/Approval at Local Government Level. The initial
appraisallendorsement for Batch I local governments expenditure program was
done by the mayors (Bupati or Walikota), based on proposals prepared by the
program preparation consultants. The broad parameters used on this initial
appraisallapproval were: (a) rehabilitation and new infrastructure needs,
(b) correlation of proposed expenditure program to past years' programs,
(c) anticipated grant/equity levels from central and provincial governments,
(d) implementation capacity of local government, (e) own source revenues
available, (f) extent of borrowing desired, and (g) availability of O&M funds
as projected in the expenditures program. Preliminary reviews of subprojects
relating to water supply, solid waste and sanitation were done to evaluate
their financial and/or economic viability. Based on the above appraisal
process, some local governments have resolved to provide levels of service
less than those prescribed in national guidelines, reduce water supply and
solid waste expenditures and displayed caution in borrowing despite their
evident capacities.
Provincial Level Appraisal. Provincial appraisal teams were
established in both provinces by virtue of the Governor's instruction (SK
Gubernur). The participating agencies include the provincial BAPPENDA, KANWIL
PU, Dinas PU and IUIDP technical terms. In order to develop the appraisal
capacity, a number of steps were taken. Two appraisal advisors were
appointed, one a municipal engineer and the other a financial analyst. They
have been shared between East Java and Bali. To assist in the appraisal
process, appraisal formats were developed in the form of checklists. Three
formats were developeds (a) checklist for appraisal of local government
expenditures programs, (b) checklist for appraisal of subprojects, and
(c) checklist for appraisal of the provincial expenditures program. The
latter would be used by the central government. The appraisal checklists are
comprehensive and provide all the necessary information for the appraisal team
to carry out its task, although these checklists continue to be revised (for
such factors as environmental impact). The supporting data sheets have been
completed by staff of the local governments and water enterprises. Prior to
the formal appraisal, a number of trial appraisals were carried out of
subprojects already under implementation or previously prepared for the



ANNEX 4C
- 72 -                         Page 3
provinces by central directorates. Satisfactory progress has been made in
developing the appraisal capacity in the provinces, assisted by the appraisal
advisors.
World Bank Appraisal. It has been agreed that. the Bank would
appraise all subprojects valued over Rp 4 billion ($2.1 million equivalent)
prior to implementation. In addition to the subprojects appraised during Bank
appraisal of East Java-Bali Urban Development project, it is expected that
there would be between 5 and 10 subprojects above Rp 4 billion value in the
subsequent batches.
The provincial appraisal teams would conduct further appraisals of
large subprojects when they are prepared to detailed engineering level,
including program and subproject appraisals that are yet to be prepared.
Technical, economic and financial appraisal criteria are described in the
following parts of this Annex.
Expenditure programs for Kabupaten Badung (Bali) and Kotamadya
Probolinggo (East Java) are summarized in Annex 14.



ANNEX 4D
- 73 -                          Page 1
GENERAL TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CRITERIA FOR SUBPROJECT SELECTION,
PLANNING AND DESIGN
(adapted to suit local conditions according to MPW guidelines)l/
1)   Kabupaten|Kotamadya Selection Criteria for IUIDP
Population              s greater than 5,000 for water supply and
greater than 20,000 for other infrastructure
Population growth rate  : greater than 2 percent for population above
20,000
Exception                s Surabaya is included in the Large Cities IUIDP
2)   Sector Selection Criteria
Water Supply             s Real demand, water stress area
Drainage                 s Flooding, deferred maintenance, increased
runoff, inadequate capacity
Solid Waste             s National guidelines regarding coverage for
high densities, environmental and health
considerations
Sanitation              s National guidelines regarding coverage for
high densities, environmental and health
considerations
Roads                    : Average daily traffic, congestion, traffic
flow constraints, road condition, accidents,
new land developments
KIP                      s National policy for basic services, local
government initiatives, poor environmental
conditions, community willingness to operate
and maintain infrastructure
MIIP                     : Service deficiencies, local government
initiatives, environmental and health consid-
erations
3)   Subproject Design Criteria
11 All standards and criteria follow MPW guidelines which have been reviewed
and found acceptable by ttte Bank. Details are provided in the Project
File.



ANNEX 4D
-74 -                          Page 2
Water Supply
Planningt
-    Priority for rehabilitation and optimum use of existing systems
-    Priority for reduction of water losses and leakages
-   Ability and willingness to pay for water supply
-    Adequate income for piped water supply (taken as Rp 100,000/month)
-    Per capita demand 120 lpd for urban households
-    Per capita demand 60 lpd for IKK and rural households
-    Per capita demand greater than 120 lpd taken for special areas
(e.g., tourism needs)
-    Planning period of 10 years
-    Optimum system selected on basis of minimum present value of total
costs over project life taking a discount rate of 10 percent
-    Environmental impact assessments, as appropriate.
Engineering Design:
-    Water quality             -    Indonesia and WHO permissible
standards
-    Maximum pressure          -    7.5 bar in the distribution system
-    Minimum pressure          -    1.0 bar in the distribution system
over a 24 hour period
-    Peak day demands          -    1.15 x average day demand
-    Peak hour demands         -    2.00 x peak day demand
Drainage
Planningt
City drainage planning focuses initially on primary and secondary
drainage, and local flooding. Major flood control works is the
responsibility of central or provincial suthorities. Urban drainage
coverage target is 60 percent in Repelita V, with 100 percent coverage by
primary and secondary systems. Optimization of existing drainage systems.
Major drainage works to be undertaken on the basis drainage masterplans
Designt
Q - F x C x I x A, where Q - discharge, C-coefficient of rougthness,
I - rainfall intensity and A - catchment area
Return period of design storm             -     5 years
Minimum velocity of flow in channels      -      0.5 meters/second
minimum
Hydraulic design                          -     Manning's Formula



- 75 -                       ANNEX 4D
Page 3
Solid Waste Services
Plannings
Based on environmental and health considerations, real demand and will-
ingness to pay. High priority for communities with densities over 200
person/hectare.
Design standard:
Population density greater than 200 persons/ha, 100 percent service;
population density between 100 person/ha and 200 person/ha, 75 percent
service; no service yet for density less than 50 person/ha; and 100
percent service for commercial areas and markets.
Refuse generation: 3.15 liters/capita/day fo-: medium towns; 1.85
liters/capita/day for small towns
Disposal by sanitary landfills environmental impact assessments
required.
Design:
Modular system as per DG Cipta Karya guidelines
Sanitation
Planning:
Eighty percent coverage of urban population by 1995 (Repelita V).
-    Sewer systems may be considered for densities in excess of 200
person per hectare. Systems include conventional sewers, small bore
sewers or shallow sewers.
-   All other areas to have on-site systems.
Criteria:
1.   Areas with ground water table less than 1.5 meters
a.   Population density greater than 150 persons/ha - 100 percent
service level, using type Al (MK-5 KK + septic tank and
anaerobic filter) or type B1 (WC/JK + septic tank and anaerobic
filter)
b.   Population density less than 150 person/ha - 80 percent
service, type Al or Bl facility.
2.   Areas with ground water table between 1.5 m and 5 m



ANNEX 4D
-76 -                           Page 4
a.   Population density greater than 200 persons/ha - 100 percent
service level, type A (MK-5 KK + septic tank and anaerobic
filter) or type Bl (WC/JK + septic tank and anaerobic filter)
b.   Population density 150 - 200 person/ha - 80 percent service
level type B (WC/JK + septic tank and soakaway trench)
c.   Population density less than 150 person/ha - 60 percent service
level using type B facility
3.   Areas with ground water table greater than 5 meters
a.   Population density greater than 200 personiha - 100 percent
service level using type A and type B2 facility
b.   Population density 150-200 person/ha - 80 percent service level
using type B facility
C.   Population density less than 150 person/ha - 60 percent service
level using type C facility (soak pit with leaching pit)
4.  Water consumption for pour flush latrines taken as 5 lpd. Sludge
generation in pour flush latrines is 30 led.
All according to DG Cipta Karya Guidelines



- 77 -                         ANNEX 4E
- 7 
Page 1
E. ECONOMIC APPRAISAL CRITERIA AND METHODOLOGY
Water Supply
1.        In principle, net present value (NPV) and economic rate of return
(ERR) have to be estimated for each water supply subproject. In order to cope
with the large number of (relatively small) subprojects and to take into
account the limited appraisal capability of provincial governments, Bank staff
proposed the application of a simplified methodology.
2.        Economic benefits of water supply projects are equal to the
consumers' willingness to pay for water plus external health benefits, i.e.
prevention of infections caused to others (outside of someone's own
household). The external health benefits, since are intangible, formally
don't enter the economic analysis. If substantiated, however, can be used to
justify projects with a negative NPV or an ERR below the cut-off rate of 10
percent (this procedure can be applied in very special cases only, as an
exception). In large cities with well functioning water supply systems there
are usually enough information to obtain a reasonably good estimate of the
consumers' demand function. The water demand function, in turn, can be used
to estimate willingness to pay.
3.        Lack of data and expertise and the proliferation of intermittent
water supply systems generally made the application of this *traditional"
method impossible in East Java and Bali. The proposed simplified methodology
divides piped water consumption into two partss the first part replaces the
previous source (e.g. wells, rivers, vendors) of water use, while the second
part is a net increase in water consumption. Benefit of the first part is
equal to the cost savings (actual payments plus own labor) of consumers who no
more need to use other sources of water supply (this is the so-called
alternative cost valuation method). Benefit of the second part, i.e., of
incremental water use, is still has to be estimated using the concept of
willingness to pay and that way depends on how accurately the demand function
was estimated. However, the share of total benefits due to incremental water
use is usually small and the information collected in order to estimate the
benefit of the first part can be used to estimate one point on the demand
curve. The full demand function is estimated by providing the coordinates of
a fictitious low price - high quantity point on the demand curve and assuming
a linear relationship between price and water demand (the method is not very
sensitive to the assumption regarding the shape of the water demand curve and
to small perturbations in the coordinates of the low price - high quantity
point).
4.        Two simple, user friendly programs were developed along these lines
to assist the project preparation teams and the provincial appraisal teams
with economic analysis. The programs compare subproject costs and benefits
and calculate NPV and ERR estimates (the programs use a discount rate of 10
percent for NPV calculations). A more detailed description of the programs
(one for small projects and one for larger ones) with the mathematical
formulas can be found in the project files.



- 78 -                           ANNEX iE
Page 2
5.        A further simplification in the proposed methodology is given by the
possibility of estimating a lower bound for the ERR. There are two ways to
arrive at such an estimate. One is the so-called cross-city comparison
method. If (i) the average incremental cost (AIC) of a subproject in city A
is less then or equal to the AIC of a subproject in city B (or, alternatively,
the water tariff of a functioning system in city B); (ii) the water
demand/consumption surveys indicate that the sources and quantity of non-piped
(alternative) water use of those households who don't have access to piped
water are similar in the two towns; (iii) household incomes are also similar
and iv) the planned average water consumption per household in city A is about
the same as the planned (or existing) water consumption in city B, then the
ERR of subproject A is at least as high as subproject B (or at least 10
percent if system B already exists).
6.        The other method relies on the financial internal rate of return
(FIRR) to obtain a lower bound estimate for the ERR. In case of a proposed
expansion/rehabilitation of an already existing system, if (i) there is no
real water price increase forecasted; (ii) changes in water consumption are
fully explained by projected changes in the (real) income and composition of
connected customers, then the FIRR can be used as a proxy for the lower bound
of ERR.
Drainage
7.        The overwhelming majority of drainage subprojects are very small,
i.e. cost less than Rp 400 million (about $0.2 million). Case by case
economic analysis (i.e. calculation of ERR and NPV) is required only for the
larger ones which typically cost Rp 600 - 1500 million. The benefits of these
drainage subprojects are estimated either i) on the basis of avoided flood
damages or '.i) land value increases and road maintenance cost reductions.
Since estimation of the cost of flood damages requires very detailed surveys
and the analysis of several type of costs, preparation teams usually prefer
the second, less time consuming approach. The advantage of this approach is
obvious: land value increase, if land markets function properly, is an
indicator which can reflect the present value of the future benefit stream
accruing to the owners of the land in the project area. The projected
increases in land values are based on comparison of land values in the project
area to land values in similar, but less frequently flooded neighborhoods.
Information on land values for the first batch subprojects was collected
during interviews with kelurahan (sub-district) staff handling land
transactions and with informal real estate brokers. Reductions in road
maintenance costs were estimated on the basis of local experience. The same
procedures will be followed for second and third batch projects.
Urban Roads
8.        The Urban Road Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works issued an
"Urban Road Planning and Programming Manual' to guide the preparation of all
IUIDP projects. Preparation of the manual was partly financed from the
technical assistance components of the Regional Cities Urban Transport Project
(Loan No. 2817-IND) and the Urban Sector Loan (Loan No. 2816-IND). Economic



- 79-                             ANNEX 4E
Page 3
analysis of all road subprojects are based on the application of this manual.
Using information obtained from site specific traffic and road condition
surveys, the manual is easy to use for estimating the benefits of urban road
rehabilitation, betterment, widening and new urban road projects. Two kinds
of benefits are estimated: vehicle operation cost savings and time benefits,
which, if compared to the costs, make it possible to calculate ERR or NPV of
the subprojects. Further simplification is allowed for subprojects with a
cost below Rp 2 billion (about $1.1 million). For each class of road and type
of road improvement, the manual also calculates the minimum traffic level
which makes the improvement economically viable (detailed description of the
methodology and assumptions used in the manual is available in the project
files). A proposed road improvement is considered acceptable if the average
daily traffic on the road is higher than the cut-off level determined that
way.
Other Subsectors
9.        A high portion of the benefits of human and solid waste management
and market infrastructure improvement subprojects are intangible and accrue to
the local community as a whole and not only to the direct recipients of these
services. Therefore, there is no requirement to carry out a formal comparison
of costs and benefits, however, for subprcjects with a cost of more than Rp
400 million, it should be demonstrated that the proposal is the least cost
solution which achieves the desired environmental impact. Kampung improvement
subprojects deliver a standard package of infrastructure services which was
proven to be economically viable in several Bank financed projects before.
Since the economic analysis of that kind of investments is very costly and the
concentration of expenditures is low, the economic viability of proposed
kampung improvements, as long as they follow the agreed standards, is
presumed.



-80 -                          ANNEX 4F
Page 1
F.  PROVINCIAL PROGRAMME IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
1.   Preamble
1.1  THIS AGREEMENT, dated this ----- day of ----------------,  1990, is in-
tended to confirm and clarify implementation arrangements for the urban
development programme prepared by the government of .......
Province and its second level governments (Dati II) within the framework
of Repetlita V and the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development
Program (IUIDP/P3KT). This Agreement covers all Dati II urban
infrastructure programmes (for East Java with the exception of the city
or Surabaya programme to be confirmed separately due to its size and
complexity). The signatories hereto acknowledge that urban development
programme implementation requires the participation and cooperation of
several agencies and approval of this Agreement has been completed with
the inter-agency coordination teams at both levels prior to executing
this Agreement (PTA Tk. I). The undersigned hereby confirm their mutual
understandings and pledge their cooperative efforts for this purpose, as
follows:
I:. Le2al and Procedural Framework for Prograse Implementation
2.1 All relevant aspects of this Agreement are defined and empowered with
reference to the following existing laws and regulations, which this
Agreement is intended to support and further the realization of their
intent:
-    Law Number 5 of 1974, determining local government functions.
-    Ministry of Home Affairs Regulations Number 5 and 6 of 1975,
regarding the financial systems and management of local government.
-    Minister of Home Affairs Decree 570-360 of 1981 regarding the
development of local government finance and monitoring of local
borrowing.
-    Government Regulation Number 14 of 1987, regarding the respective
functions of infrastructure development.
-    Government Regulation Number 6 of 1988, regarding the coordination
of development programme among different GOI levels of government.
-    Minister of Home Affairs Instruction Number 18 of 1989 regarding the
implementation of PP. 6/1986.
III. The Provincial Urban Development Proaraume
3.1  The government of   .............. Province and its Dati II Local
governments (for East Java excluding Surabaya) with the assistance and
guidance of appropriate central government agencies have undertaken to
initiate a province-wide urban development programme within the framework
of the P3KT process with the objectives of:
-    Improvement of urban facilities and services to benefit the citizens
and economic efficiency of all urban settlements throughout the
Province, specifically covering water supply, sanitation/sewerage,



ANNEX 4F
- 81 -                         Page 2
urban roads, drainage and urban flood protection, solid waste
management, market area infrastructure (excluding the market or
terminal buildings), and kampung area infrastructure in low-income
neighborhoodst
_    Strengthening local capacities to operate and maintain such
facilities and dependably deliver such services;
-    Increase local abilities to plan, programue and manage systems of
these urban facilities and services to accommodate rapidly
increasing urban population and economie activities; and,
Support local initiatives to mobilize an increasing proportion of
necessary progravme resources from local revenues (PAD and PBB).
3.2  The detailed programme agreed to be implemented in ............. Province
is as descrlbed in part I of attached Project Preparation Report
(Attachment I), which forms an integral part of this Agreement.
3.3 More specifically, a summary of the agreed Provincial expenditure
programme is in Table 1 below and a summary of the agreed provincial
financing plan is in Table 2.



- 82 -                         ANNEX 4F
Page 3
Table 1.  Summary Provincial Programme expenditure (1990/91 - 1994/95) in
billion of Raupiah (current prices)
Water Supply
Drainage
Sanitation
Human Waste Management
Urban Roads
KIP
MIIIP
Overheads
Engineering Service
Consulting Service
Total
Table 2. Summary Provincial Financing Plan in billion of Up. (1990191 -
1994195)
Private Sources
PADS/PBS - general revenue Dati 11
User charges Dati 11
Internal resources PDAM
IMPRES Dati IS
INPRES Peningkatan Jalan Dati II
SDO
SDB (from Dati I to Dati SS)
Loans from central government
APBD I
INPRES Peningkatan Jalan Dati I
APBN-DIP
APBN-DIP Daerah
Total



- 83 -                           ANNEX 4F
Page 4
3.4  Of the total prograsme financing an amount of ....s....... will be met
out of the proceeds of the proposed IBRD Loan for East Java - Bali Urban
Development Programme.
IV. Programme Imglementation
4.1 Programme implementation will be carried out in accordance with the
provisions in part II of the attached Project Preparation Report
(Attachment I) and pertinent Government regulations and procedures and
IBRD guidelines.
4.2 More specifically, programme implementation is expected to take five (5)
years from FY 1990191 onwards and includes all further detailed
preparation work required for each Dati U1 local government, as detailed
in part It of attachment X.
4.3  The provincial government undertakes to appraise all multi - year Dati 1I
expenditure programmes (Program Jangka Menengah or PJM) and their
constituent subprojects submitted to it by each Dati 1S local government
in accordance with agreed criteria and, upon appraisal and approval of
the same, will enter into a Programm Tmplementation Agreement
(PUA Tk. U) with each Dati II local government within the overill
framework of this present Agreement.
4.4  Prior to the conclusion of a PIA Tk. II and while PJM preparation is in
progress, a Dati II local government may utilize programme resources for
urgently required small projects not exceeding p. 3 billion in
aggregate.This Laterim facility may be utilized only once by each Tk. %I
local government and should not include investments having an
implementation period longer than two years.The provincial government
undertakes to appraise and approve such projects in accordance with the
agreed criteria and to enter into a provisional PIA TK. I with the
concerned Dati IT local government with a maximum two year validity, to
be subsumed subsequently in the PSA Tk. U1 referred to in para 4.3 above,
which will become effective not later than 2 years after the
effectiveness of this Agreement*.
4.5  Both parties to this Agreement undertake to carry out necessary actions
on their part with respect to Dati II Revenue Improvement Action Plans
(RUAP) and Local Institutional Development Action Plans (LIDAP) as
included in the concerned PTA Tk. IlI, including timely consideration of
tariff adjustment proposals, organizational adjustments and staffing
proposals as well as monitoring of any other required actions to achieve
revenue enhancement targets or any performance yardsticks included in
RIAP or LIAP.
* Notes This emergency interim facility is intended to be made available
only for the so-called Batch II and Batch III Dati II local governments, which
at the time of effectiveness of this Agreement do not yet have a fully
completed, appraised and approved PJH.



-84 -                         ANEX 4F
Page 5
4.6 Prior to effectiveness of this Agreement the two parties will have
established the functional implementation units at central and provincial
levels respectively as provided for in part II of attacbment I at
staffing level adequate for their operation.
V.   Guidelines and Procedures to be applied in implementation.
5.1 It is understood that, in the absence of further specific reference, the
implementation of this Agreement is governed by the following guidelines
and proceduress
-    lUIDP Prograrmme preparation guidelines
-    IUVIDP Subsectoral technical memorandums
-    IUIDP appraisal guidelines
-    IUSDP implementation guidelines and handbook.
-    Government procurement guidelines (Xeppres 29 of 1984 Inpres 1 of
1988 and teppres 6 of 1988 and implementing regulations/procedures)
-    IBRD guidelines on procurement
-    IBRD guidelines on the recruitment of consultants
-    Fund channelling procedures as exist for each source of central and
provincial funds
-    AMDAL preparation guidelines and procedures
-    Annual Guidelines on preparation of APBD and APBN
(Notes Specific SKs, Surat Edaran, etc., will be referred to in the final
Indonesian language version.)
VI. Resolution of DisDutes
6.1  Dispute arising from this Agreement or its understanding by any party
will be resolved through consultation within the framework of Tim
Koordinasi Pembangunan Perkotaan (TKPP).



- 85 -                        AMNEX 4F
Page 6
VIZ. Effectiveness
7.1 Subject co the provisions in clause 4.6 above, this Agreement will become
effective upon signing of the Loan Agreemeat between IBRD and the
Republic of Indonesia for the East Java-Bali Urban Development project.
for the provincial                  for the central
government of                       Government RI.
......... ................ -.**
(Director-General
Cipta Rarya, DPU)
(Governor)
Director-General
Dina Marga, DPV)
Director-General
Bangda, DDN)
Dlrector-General
PUOD, DDN



AN-8  4G
- 86 -                           Page I
C. LOCAL PROGRAHME IMPLEMENTASSON AGREMENT
S.  Preamble
1.1  TEIS AGREVENT, dated this ------ day of -------------- is to confirm
and clarify implementation arrangement for the urban development
programs prepared by the local government of .......... within the
framework of Repelita V and the Tntegrated Urban Infrastructure
Development Program (ItUDP). The undersigned hereby agree as followss
II.  Legal and Procedural Framework for Programme Implementation
2.1 All relevant aspects of this agreemeat are defined and empowered with
reference to the following existing laws and regulations, which this
Agreement is intended to support and further the realisation of their
Intent%
-    DNCBJ3No. ........... dated ................. regarding the
integrated urban infrastructure development program preparation.
-    IGUB/No . .......... dated ................. regarding the
Integrated urban infrastructure development program iUplementation.
-    S_ I/PIASo. ........... dated .......... between central government
an4 the provincial government of .......... regarding the integrated
urban infrastructure development program implementation.
1II. The local IUIDP Program
3.1 Expenditure Pro*ram
To implement the  UIDP Program prepared by the government of
with assistance of the provincial governmnt of ........ covering the
period 1990/91 - 1994/95 as described in the Multi-Year IUtD Program
(Program Jangka Menengah or PJM) and as summarized in Attachment I
'Expenditure ProgramO.
3.2  Financins Plan
The program referred to in Article 3.1 will in principle be funded in
accordance to the financing plan as provided in the Multi-Year IVtD
Program, specifying proposed contributions by level of government and
source of finnce and as summarized in Attachment IT "Financing Plan'.
Of the total an amount of .......... will met our of the proceeds of the
proposed IBRD Loan for the East JavalBali Urban Development Project.
IV. Program Implementation
4.1 Fundins Arrangements



- 87 -                          ANNEX 4G
Page 2
To provide the contributions as referred to in Article 3.2, the local
government of  ..................... will undertake the necessary revenue
improvement measurements as described in the revenue improvement action
plan (RTAP), of which the main targets to be achieved are summar'zed in
Attachment III RIAP Targets*.
The provincial government will undertake the necessary arrangements for
the allocation of central government funds as proposed In the financing
plan referred to in Article 3.2 through and in accordance with the
Rakorbang process.
The local government of ............ with assistance of the provincial
government will undertake the necessary arrangements for loan financing
as proposed in the financing plan referred to in irticle 3.2.
4.2  Funding Administration
The funding of the program referred to in Article 3.1 and 3.2, will be
administered in accordance with the prevailing G0T regulation.
Funding of the program will furthermore be accounted for by the IUIDP
Pinance Units to be established within sagian Keuangan of ......... and
Biro Isuangan ............. and in accordance to the program financial
accounting and monitoring system (PFAMS) issued by .
4.3  Implementation Schedule
The program referred to in Article 3 1 will in principle be implemented
in accordarce to the implemeuitation schedule provided in the Multi-Year
MUID Program and summarized in Attachment IV lmplementation Schedule'.
The local government of .......and the provincial government will
accordingly undertake the necessary project preparation in accordance
with the guidelines ............ and project appraisal in accordance with
guidelines
4.4 Implementation Arrangements
In accordanco with prevailing regulations, the program referred to in
Article 3.1, will be implemented by those agencies at local provincial
and central government level which by virtue of those regulations are
responsible for implementation.
The implementation arrangements are farthermore regulated by SK Gubernur
and SR Bupati/lalikotamadya  ..
By SK ¢ubernur No. ........... the program management tasks are entrusted
to a Provincial IUIDP Management Unit (PIMU) to be established in Bappeda
TR. I and the financial management tasks to a Provincial IUIDP Finance
Unit (PIMU) to be established in Biro Keuangtn Tk. I.



ANNEX 4G
-    -                          Page 3
By SR Bupati/Walikotamadya ........ ........ the program management task
are entrusted to an IUZDP M4anagement Unit (I=U) to be established in
Bappeda Tk. II and the financial management tasks to an IUIDP Finance
Unit (PIFU) to be established in Bagian Xeuangan Tk. 11.
The tendering and contracting procedures are regulated by ...........
The procurement of material and equipment are regulated by ..........
4.5 Audit
Annual auditing will be executed by BPKP in accordance with .........
4.6 Institutional
In accordance with the program referred to in Article 1, the local
government of .............. with assistance from the provincial
government will undertake institutional strengthening measurements as
described int he institutional development action plan (LIDAP), of which
the main targets are sumlArized in Attachment V 'LIDAP. Targets".
4.7  Proaram Adiustment
As required the program referred to in Article 3.1 may be adjusted in
accordance with the guideline; whenever this adjustment results in a
change of 20 percent or more in the magnitude and composition of overall
expenditure program referred to in Article 3.1 or in the composition of
the financtng plan referred to in Article 3.2, this adjusted program will
be subject to approval by the Bupati/Walikota and the Governor.
In such case, the local government of .............. with assistance from
the provincial government will undertake the preparation of a new PJM.
VI. Related Guidelines and Procedures
6.1 It is understood that, in the absence of further specific reference,
the implementation of this Agreement is governed by the following
guidelines and procedures:
-    IUIDP Project Preparation Guidelines
-    IUIDP Project Appraisal Guidelines
-    ZUIDP Implementation Guidelines
-    Procurement Guidelines
-    AMDAL Preparation Guidelines
VII Resolution of Disputes
7.1 Disputes arising from this Agreement or its understanding by any
party will be resolved through consultations within the framework of the
Provincial Komisi Pembangunan Kota/Steering Committee.



- 89 -                          ANMEX 40
Page 4
VIII Effectiveness
7.1 Subject to effectiveness of the 535/IPA referred to in art 2.1 above and
the provisions in Article 4.4 above, this Agreemaent takes cffect upon
signing by both parties.
Signed on behalf of                              Signed on behalf of
Pemda.      .....   .                            Peont"
Dates ................                           Dates 
The Bupati/Walikotamadya                         The Governor



- 90 -                        ANNEX 4H
Page 1
EAST JAVA AND BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LENDING ARRANGEMENT TO REGIONAL GOVERNMENTS
AND REGIONAL ENTERPM.ISES
1.        The Basic Concept
(a)  Loans would be p:ovided to second level regional governments and
regional enterprises in East Java and Bali provinces through the
existing Rekening Pembangunan Daerah (RPD) in Bank Indonesia. The
basic legal rules followed would be those applying to loans made
from domestically-sourced GOI funds (Pinjaman Dalam Negari - PDN).
The detailed loan application and approval procedures, method of
disbursement to borrowers, and central debt management
arrangements, would essentially follow those already developed by
GOI for the full Regional Development Account (scheme).
(b) With the exception of contracts financed through direct payments to
contractors by IBRD, payments relating to loan-financed ?tlb-
projects would be pre-financed from domestically-sourced funds.
(c) IBRD would reimburse the RPD Account retrospectively in respect of
these project payments through the medium of a Special Account
established in Bank Indonesia (held in US dollars) for EJBUDP
lending.
Cd) Different loan disbursement procedures would apply in the case of
such loan monies as are to be directly paid by IBRD to overseas
contractors. The system used in such cases would be that specified
in Ministerial Decree No. 48 of 1987. In other respects,
procedures would be the same as those for the loans made through
the RPD Account.
2.        Application Procedure
(a) Second level regional governments and regional enterprises prepare
their borrowing proposals which are then appraised at provincial
and central government level with respect to technical, economic
and financial viability of the related projects and the borrowers'
capacities to repay the loans.
(b) For borrowing by second level regional governments, proposals are
approved by the regional council (DPRD).
(c) Following successful evaluation of the proposals by the central
government, loans are agreed in principle by the Ministry of Home
Affairs on behalf of the concerned ministries (Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Public Works, Bappenas and Ministry of Home Affairs
itself).



ANNEX 4H
- 91 -                      Page 2
(d) Formal loan agreements in a standard format are prepared by the
Ministry of Finance (DDI) and signed by the Head of the regional
government/General Director of the regional enterprise as relevant.
3.        Loan Disbursement to Regional Level
(a) The Borrower applies to the Ministry of Finance (DDI) for
disbursement of loan funds, supporting the application with planned
disbursement schedule (RPDP) where necessary, and copies of
relevant contract/requisition documents.
(b) The Director General Moneter orders payment of funds from the RDA
in Bank Indonesia to a Project Account opened with an appropriate
bank at a local level.
(c) In the course of sub-project implementation, the
contractor/supplier applies to the project manager (PINPRO) for
payments, in accordance with the payment schedule set in the
contract.
(d) The project manager and Treasurer (Setwilda)/Enterprise Director
General as relevant orders payment from the project account to the
contractor/supplier.
te) The project manager reports the drawing down of the Project Account
through the Borrower to the Ministry of Finance (DDI) with
supporting payment vouchers, and requests the next payment of loan
funds in accordance with the RPDP. The Director General Moneter
orders the next payment of funds from the RDA to the Project
Account. The process continues in this way up to project
completion.
4.        Book-keeping Arrangements
(a) Ministry of Finance (DDI) records all loan transactions according
to borrower and loan agreement using the bookkeeping/accounting
systems devised for the RDA scheme.
(b) Ministry of Finance (DDI) recovers loan repayments from the
borrower in accordance with the provisions of the loan agreement
following the procedure developed for the RDA schemes.
(c) The borrowing regional government or regional enterprise maintains
loan records concerning loan funds advanced, repayment liabilities
and repayments made in accordance with relevant GOI regulatious.
5.        Reimbursement and Replenishment Arrangements
(a) The project manager (PIMPRO) sends copies of payment vouchers to
the Directorate General Anggaran (TUA) of t1le Ministry of Finance,



-92-                         ANNEX 4H
Pege 3
in addition to sending original payment evidences to DDI as
described in 3e above.
(b) DDI requests TUA to order reimbursement from the Special Account
for the EJBUDP lending in Bank Indonesia accompanied with the
relevant evidences of payments made by the project.
(c) After a reconciliation with copies of payment vouchers received
from the project as described under 5a above, TUA orders the
reimbursement transfer (in Rupiah) from the Special Account.
(d) TU'. submits a request to IBRD (RSI) to replenish the Special
Account with the US dollar equivalent of the project payments made,
acccxmpanied by the supporting payment evidences.
(e) IBRD arranges the replenishment of the Special Account (the
transaction being booked by the Bank of Indonesia as a credit/debit
transfer through the BUN).
6.        Direct Payment Contract
(a) In the event of a contract being awarded to an overseas
contractor/supplier on terms stipulating direct payment by IBRD,
the established procedure under Joint Ministerial Decree No. 48 of
1987 is followed.
(b) IBRD (RSI) informs the Central Project Finance Office for EJBUDP
(CPFO) of the direct payments which have been made.
(c) CPFO in turn informs DDI of the direct payments notified by IBRD so
that the loan records can be properly maintained.
7.        Terms of Lending
(a) Loan repayment periods, including grace periods, will be set
according to the economic life of each investment and anticipated
construction/commissioning schedules (minimum loan period 5 years,
maximum 20 years; minimum grace period 1 year, maximum 5 years).
(b) The following summarizes the agreed method of calculating the
domestic lending rates and related conditions:
(i) The 6-month average of the 3-month Sertifikat Bank Indonesia
(SBI) rate at the time of appraisal would be used as proxy for
lmarket rate' in the calculation; hereafter called 3SBI Index".
(ii) GOI would apply the agreed discount percentage to the SBI Index
to produce an on-lending interest rate, but the magnitude of
the discount will be reduced over time to move the on-lending
rate toward market rates in progressive steps.



-93 -ANNEX 48
Page 4
(iii) The interest rate for any proposed loan to local government or
regional enterprise would be fixed at time of appraisal and
remain constant for the life of the loan (rounded to the
nearest .25 percent).
(iv)  For the EJBUDP onlending the following schedules would be used
for calculation of onlending interest rates for each *batch of
local governments and enterprisess
Group             Appraisal Dat"                    Formula
Batch   I   Period: Prior to April 1, 1990 : 602 of SBI Index - 92
(.6 x 14.8Z SBI Index
for March 1990)
Batch  II   Periods April 1, 1990 -
about March 31, 1992          s 702 of SBI Index
Batch III   Periods  about April 1, 1992 -
about March 31, 1994          : 752 of SBI Index
(v)  The minimum of 'floor" rate of interest for any lending to
local government or enterprise, regardless of indexlformula
reduction, shall be not less than the Bank rate plus 1.752 for
Batches II and III.
(vi)  The maximum interest rates of 10.5Z and 11.52 will apply to
onlending for Batch II and III respectively, and sub-project
feasibility studies shall be prepared utilizing these maximum
values for each Batch.
(c)  A commitment fee of 0.75 percent of the undisbursed amounts from
the schedule of loan drawdown will be charged. However, GOI may
wish to reduce this fee to parallel reduced Bank commitment fees,
as applicable.
8.        Promulgation of the EJBUDP Loans Facility
(a)  The scheme will be promulgated as a special lending facility for
the EJBUDP project by means of a Circular Letter from the Director
General Moneter (MOF) to all regional governments and relevant
regional enterprises in the provinces of East Java and Bali.
(b)  Further detailed instructions and guidance on the loans scheme
conditions and procedures will be provided to the relevant regional
governments and enterprises, together with the requisite forms and
sample documentation, drawing on the materials already developed
for the full RDA scheme.



- 94 -                       ANNEX 4H
Page 5
REGIONAL GOVERNMENTS' LOAN APPLICATION PROCEDURES
1.   The technical department of the regional government (Dinas PU Dati
II) prepares their borrowing proposals including feasibility
assessments according to standards set by the central government,
and submits them to the Head of the Regional Government (KDH Dati
IT), through the planning board (Bappeda) and the secretariat
(Setwilda) of the regional government. The borrowing proposals are
reviewed by the planning board of the regional government (Bappeda
Dati II) on their consistency with the medium-term program (PJM)
andlor regional development plan and priorities, and by the finarce
office of the regional government secretariat (Setwilda Dati II) on
the regional governments' capacities to repay the loans.
2. The Head of the Regional Government (RDH Dati II) requests the
approval from the regional parliament (DPRD).
3. The Head of the Regional Government (KDH Dati II) asks the governor
of the provincial government to forward the loan application with
his recommendation to the ministries concerned at central
government level. A copy of the request is forwarded directly to
the provincial department of public works, for technical appraisal
(1').
4. The Governor, Head of the Provincial Government (GUBIKDH Dati I),
forwards the loan application with his recommendation to the
ministries concerned at central government level, i.e. the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MHA), the Ministry of National Development
Planning (Bappenas), the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW). The provincial department of
public works will forward the results of the technical
recommendations directly to the Ministry of Public Works (4').
5. Following successful evaluation of the proposals by the concerned
ministries at central government level, loans are agreed in
principle by the Ministry of Finance and communicated to the
regional government through the Ministry of Home Affairs.
6.   The Governor, Head of the Provincial Government (GUB/RDH Dati I)
informs the Head of the Regional Government (KDH Dati II) that the
loan has bee agreed in principle.
7.   Formal loan agreements in a standard format are prepared by the
Ministry of Finance (DDI) and signed by the Head of the Regional
Government (RDH Dati II).



A.". EX 4H
- 95 -                      Page 6
REGIONAL GOUERIENTS' LOAN APPLICATIONS PROCOURES
t----------@*----------X-.......................................................................
HNA        Nor                     Hg:
t..v
Xt~~~~~ I 
. 3
EG    mut   ma   ma



ANNEX 4H
- 96 -                        Page 7
REGIONAL GOVERNMENTS' LOAN DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
1. Formal contracts in a standard format are prepared by the project
manager (PINPRO) and signed by the contractorlsupplier.
2.   The project manager (PINPRO) prepares and submits the loan
disbursement documentation for the Ministry of Finance (DDI) to the
Head of the Regional Government (KDH Dati II).
3.   The Head of the Regional Government (KDH Dati II) applies for
disbursement of loan funds, supporting the application with copies
of relevant contractirequisition documents, and a planned
disbursement schedule (RPDP) if applicable.
4.   The Direktur-Jendral Monetar (MOF) orders payment trom DDI to a
project account opened with an appropriate tank at local level.
5.   Funds are channelled from DDI to the project account, and the
Ministry of Finance (DDI) is informed about the disbursement (5')
and the Secretariat of the regional government is informed about
the transfer made (5').
6.   In the course of sub-project implemeutation, the
contractor/supplier applies to the project manager (PINPRO) for
payments in accordance with the payment schedule set in the
contract.
7.   The project manager (PINPRO) prepares and submits payment
application to the Treasurer (Setwilda).
8.  The Treasurer (SETWILDA) orders payment from the project account to
the contractor/supplier.
9.   Payment is channelled from the project account to the
contractor's/supplier's account, and the project manager (PINPRO)
and the Treasurer (Setwilda) are informed about payment done (9').



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CZ6
CZ
(I)~~~l



-98 -                        ANN.X 4.
Page 9
REGIONAL ENTERPRISES' LOAN APPLICATIONS PROCEDURES
1.   The regional enterprise (BUMD) prepares their borrowing proposals
including feasibility assessments according to standards set by the
central government, and submits them to the Head of the Regional
Government (KDH Dati II)IChairman of the enterprise's Supervisory
Board, through the planning board (Bappeda) of the regional
government. The borrowing proposals are reviewed by the planning
board of the regional government (Bappeda Dati II) on their
consistency with the medium-term program (PJM) and/or regional
development plan and priorities.
2.   The Head of the Regional Government (KDH Dati II) asks the governor
of the provincial government to forward the loan application with
his recommendation to the ministries concerned at central
government level. A copy of the request is forwarded directly to
the provincial department of public works, for technical appraisal
(1' ) .
3. The Governor, Head of the Provincial Government (GUB/KDH Dati I),
forwards the loan application with his recommendation to the
ministries concerned at the central government level, i.e. the
Ministry of Home Affairs (MRA), the Ministry of National
Development Planning (Bappenas), the Ministry of Finance (MOP), and
the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). The provincial department of
public works will forward the results of the technical
recommendations directly to the Ministry of Public works (3').
4. Following successful evaluation of the proposals by the concerned
ministries at central government level, loans are agreed in
principle by the Ministry of Finance and communicated to the
regional government through the Ministry of Home Affairs.
5. The Governor, Head of the Provincial Government (GUB/KDH Dati I)
informs the Head of the Regional Government (KDH Dati II) that the
loan has been agreed in principle.
6.   Formal loan agreements in a standard format are prepared by the
Ministry of Finance (DDI) and signed by the General Director of the
regional enterprise (BUMD).



99                             ANN1EX 4
cage 10
REGIONAL ENTERPRISES' LOAN APPLICATIONS PROCEDURES
,,* , 
RHA     NO?   ~ ~ PWm               Rp 
*,,          ,     ,               ,               ,.. . . .   . . . . . . . . . . ..  . .. . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .
'S     u1        3                      
1*                                                      S
ONI                                                      I
*                   I
.a.
L:E4
L__1                      ...................1 
-  E.1 



- 100 -                        ANNEX 4H
Page 11
REGIONAL ENTERPRISES' LOAN DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
1.   Formal contracts in a standard format are prepared by the project
manager (PINPRO) and signed by the contractor/supplier.
2.   The project manager (PINPRO) prepares and submits the loan
disbursement documentation for the Ministry of Finance (DDI) to the
General Director of the regional enterprise (BUMD).
3.   The General Director of the regional enterprise (BULD) and the Head
of the regional government (KDH Dati II) applies for disbursement
of loan funds, supporting the application with copies of relevant
contract/requisition documents, and a planned disbursement schedule
(RPDP) if applicable.
4.   The Direktur-Jendral Moneter (MOF) orders payment from the DDI to a
project account opened with an appropriate bank at local level.
5.   Funds are channeled from the DDI to the project account, and the
Ministry of Finance (DDI) is informed about the disbursement (5')
and the regional enterprise (BUMD) is informed about the transfer
made (5').
6.  In the course of sub-project implementation, the
contractor/supplier applies to the project manager (PINPRO) for
payments, in accordance with the payment schedule set in the
contract.
7.   The project manager (PINPRO) and General Director of the regional
enterprise (BUMD) orders payment from the project account to the
contrac,or/supplier.
8.   Payment is channelled from the project account to the
contractor's/supplier's account, and the project manager (Pinpro)
and the General Director of the regional enterprise (BUMD) are
informed about payment done (8').



- 101 -                    Page 12
REGIONAL ENTERPRISES
LOAN DISBISEMENT PROCEDURES
_         . 
.,  ,   $ 
*---    - i; -I
la_m
I1'   
L~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 5
- 102 -                          Page 1
EAST JAVA - BATCH I LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
TENTATIVE LIST OF CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT METHOD
Average value
per contract (RD M)        Number of contracts
Contract Details                ICB      LCB     Other      ICB     LCB     Other
Equipment (Rp 5,062 million)
Trucks, pickup trucks,
dumptrucks, rollers,
tankers workshop
equipment, etc.
1 contract per cate-
gory per annum                461     165       1S          2      24      16
Handcarts
1 contract per Tk.II            -      16       11         -        9      14
per annum
Laboratory/office               -        -       4          -       -      10
Materials (Rp 9,193 million)
Small diameter pipework,
etc.                            -     342        -          -      12       -
Large pipework, etc.
Grouped into at least
twelve contracts                -     379        -         -       12       _
Service Connections
2 contracts per Tk.II
(pipework, meters procured
separately)                     -      96        -         -       25       -
Leak detectionibulk
meters                          -       57      15          -       3       2
Mechanical & Electrical
Supply/Install (Rp 1,849 million)
Pumping Plant
7 contracts, (7 locations)      -      89        -         -        7
Chlorinators /treatment
plant
11 contracts, (11
locations)                      -      43                  -       11
Lamongan - all works at
least 2 contracts               -     377        -         2        -       -
Subtotal Contracts                                      4      103      42



- 103 -ANNEX 5
Page 2
EAST JAVA - BATCH I LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
TENTATIVE LIST OF CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT METHOD
(continued)
Average value
per contract (Rp.M)        Number of contracts
Contract                        ICB      LCB   Other        ICB     LCB   Other
B/fwd                                                         4     103      42
Civil Works
Roads (Rp 22,048 million)
Artery:
1 contract for 2 roads
per annum                     -     240        -         -       20       -
Collectors
1 contract for 3 roads
per annum                     -     245        -         -       50       -
Localt
Small packaged, most
small                        -       80       15         -       10     103
Feasibility studys
1 contract per road           -      30        -         -        5       -
Sanitation (Rp 4,120 million)
Multiple facilities           -      112       -          -      10       _
Kuta pilot sewerage           -     500        -         -        6       -
Drainage (Rp 5,402 million)
Dred8ing & cleaning
(some packaging)              -     170       15         -        8      12
Upgrading channels
(some packaging)              -     250       15         -      13       41
Solid Waste Manaaement
(Rp-717 million)              -     100       15.        -        2      34
Kampung Improvement
(Rp 2,062 million)              -     130       15         -        5      94
Market Infrastructure
(Rp 868 million)
Rogojampi                       -     344        -          -       1       -
Others                          -     156       15          -       1      25
Water Supply
(Rp 10,397 million)
4 Water towers                  -     403        -         -        4       -
3 Wells                         -     155        -         -        3       -
Other works                     -      333       -          -      25       -
Total Contracts: East Java (Batch 1)                    4      266     351
Surbaya
Large diameter pipe and
pumping plant             4,500                          5        -       -



ANNEX 5
- 104 -                       Page 3
BALI - BATCH I LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
TENTATIVE LIST OF CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT METHOD
Average value
per contract (Rp M)        Number of contracts
Contract Details                ICB      LCB     Other      ICB     LCB     Other
Equipment (Rp 1.4 billion) La
Trucks                          -       50        -        -        5        -
Pickups                         -       25       15        -        1        2
Dump Trucks                     -      55         -         -       5        -
Rollers                         -       50        -         -       3        _
Asphalt Sprayers                -       20        -         -       1        -
Road Maintenance Sets           -       50        -         -       1        -
Sludge Trucks                   -      30         -        -        2        -
Rubbish Bins                    -       50        5         -       5        5
Hand Carts                      -        -        3         -       -       13
Other                           -       30       15         -       5        5
Materials
PDAM Denpasar (Rp 7.6 billion)
Large diameter pipes        3,490        -        -         1       -        -
Large diameter pipes        1,029        -        -         2       -        -
Small diameter pipes            -     321         -        -        5        -
Service connections             -     150         -        -        2        -
Flow meters etc                 -      30        15         -       2        2
Other PDAMs (Rp 2.0 billion)
Large diameter pipes            -     212         -         -       2        -
Small diameter pipes            -     180         -        -        6        -
Service connections             -      60         -        -       12        -
Plow meters, etc                -      25         4        -        2        2
Mechanical and Electrical
Engineering Works
PDAM Denpasar (Rp 3.5 billion)
Treatment works             2,053        -        -        1        -        -
Other                           -     470         -         -       3        -
Other PDAMs (Rp 0.4 billion)   -        60        -         -       7        -
Subtotal Contracts                                      4       69       29
la Only vehicles procured under ICB will be eligible for IBRD financing.



ANNEX 5
- 105 -                          Page 4
BALI - BATCH I LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
TENTATIVE LIST OF CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT METHOD
Average value
per contract (RP M)        Number of contracts
Contracts Details                ICB     LCB     Other      ICB      LCB     Other
B/fwd                                                         4       69       29
Civil Works
Urban Roads (Rp 10.2 billion)  -       lSO         -        -       14        -
Named Roads                      -     150         -        -       10        -
Named Roads                      -     150         -        -       28        -
Local Roads                      -     150       15         -        6      100
Sanitation (Rp 0.7 billion)
Substructures                   -      100        8         -        1        6
Substructures                   -      100       15         -        2       10
New facilities                   -     100       15         -        1        5
Drainage (Rp 5.7 billion)
Dredging/cleaning                -      20         -        -        5        -
Dredging/cleaning               -       20       15         -        1        4
Upgrading/new works              -     130         -        -        6        -
Upgrading/new works              -     100         -        -       20        -
Upgrading/new works              -     150        15        -       1S       30
Solid Waste Disposal
(Rp 01. billion)
Construction: Transfer Station -        50         -        -        1        -
Access roads                     -      35         5        -        1        4
Kampung Improvement
(Rp 2.8 billion)
General Works                    -      55        1S        -       15       15
General Works                    -      40         -        -        8        -
General Works                   -       50        15        -       20       30
Market Infrastructure
Rp 0.2 billion)
General Works                    -       -        15        -        -       12
General Works
Water Supply (Rp 5.8 billion)
Denpasar                         -     150         -        -       25        -
Other                            -     100        15        -       20       10
Total Contractes Bali                                    4     268       255



-106 -                             ANNEX-6
Page 1
EAST-JAVA-BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Arrangements for the IBRD Loan
Funding Channels for the EJBUDP
The IBRD Loan proceeds would be channeled to the EJBUD Project through the
following four methods:
1.   IBRD-financed portions of Public Works Department DIPs, to be paid
from the EJBUDP Special Account ("DIP Rupiah Rekening 1husus",
usually abbreviated to *DIP Rp R1K). These could consist of both
amounts to be paid in Rupiah and amounts to be paid in foreign
currencies, but DIP documents do not distinguish between these two
categories (the division may not indeed be clear at the time of DIP
preparation);
2.   IBRD-financed grant transfers for direct use by local governments
('SPABP Grants-) also to be paid from the EJBUDP Special Account;
3.  IBRD-reimbursement of Central Government Loans to local governments
and local government enterprises, through the EJBUDP Special
Account;
4.   Direct Payments in foreign currency by IBRD contractors (where
deemed appropriate). These could relate both to Public Works
Department DIP budgetary allocations ("DIP Pembayaran Langsung',
usually abbreviated to 'DIP PLO) and to on-lending allocations.
The domestically-sourced counterpart funding by government agencies of
development expenditure within the Project would be channelled through:
5.   domestically-financed portions of Public Works Department DIPs)
'DIP Rp APBN', sometimes also referred to as "DIP Murni");
6.   local government and local government enterprise contributions
from:
(a) local governments' own revenues and revenues assigned to local
governments from higher levels ('PADS/PBB');
(b) Inpres Dati II grant from central to local governments;
(c) Inpres Jalan grant from central to local governments;
(d) province government grant to local governments (OSBD');
(e) internal funds of local government enterprises.
(There would also be funding for Project expenditure from:



- 107 -                              ANNEX 6
-   provincial government budgets directly;
-   local government and local enterprise revenues for O&M
expendituress
-   local enterprise internal funds used to wholly finance certain
investment expenditures; and
-   private sector contributions,
but the IBRD loan will not be disbursed against such expenditures).
Payments Made in Rupiah
DIP Channel Financing - Central Government Sub-project Components
In the case of components of sub-projects for which central government
agencies have sole implementation responsibility, procedures would largely
follow those established for previous IBRD-financed urban projects. The DIP
document would specify the IBRD-financed share of the sub-project component as
Rp RK funding together with the domestically-financed counterpart share as Rp
APBN funding in accordance with the specified IBRD disbursement percentages.
For example, for a DIP relating to one or more civil works contracts, 70
percent of each civil works contract sum would be specified as funded from Rp
RK funds and the balance of the contract amounts, together with all ineligible
expenditure (for overheads, etc.) would be specified as financed from Rp APBN
funds.
Payments to local contractors would be made through the State Treasury offices
in the relevant capital (KPKN) - the contractors would not have to go to
Jakarta to be paid.
-SPABP Special Grant" Channel Financing
Sub-project components to be financed by IBRD loan proceeds passed as grants
to local level through the SPABP channel will normally also have a counterpart
financing amount from the local governments' own revenue sources (PADS, normal
Inpres grants, etc.).
Local governments will prepare each year a draft EJBUDP budget submissions
representing their implementation plans for sub-projects to be financed from
SPABP special grant in the forthcoming budget year of their approi,ed medium-
term programs (PJMs). These draft EJBUDP budgets would be submitted through
the Provinces (with review by the provincial Technical Team) to central
government. After central review by Bappenas, Ministry of Finance and
Ministry of Home Affairs, D-G Budget of the Ministry of Finance would issue an
authority (SKO) to KPKN in the provincial capitals to disburse up to specified
sums, to be drawn on the EJBUDP Special Account, for each relevant local
government in respect of contract payments properly authorized under local
government DIPDA budgetary procedures.



ANNEX 6
- 108 -                           Page 3
Local governments would then prepare draft development budget authorizations
(DUPDA) for the relevant sub-projects, specifying, as Rp RK, the amount of
funding to be provided by IBRD through the EJBUDP Special Account, in
accordance with the specified disbursement percentages on eligible
expenditure. The DUPDA would also show the counterpart funding amount(s) and
sources(s) to be provided from the local government's own normal revenue
sources. The local governments would also make appropriate provisions in
their draft development budgets (APBD Pembangunan) for these expenditures and
their funding sources. Following APBD approval by the local Representative
Councils (DPRD) and ratification by provincial governors, DUPDAs would be
individually approved by Governors with the advice of the provincial Technical
Teams, and thence by local government mayorslregents, thereby becoming DIPDAs
authorizing the implementation of the relevant sub-projects. These procedures
are standard in local governments.
Each implementation contract would be written specifying one funding source as
being from KPKN, representing the IBRD funding share, and one (or possibly
more, although one only is highly desirable) supplementary local funding
source.
Exampless
1.   A civil works contract could specify funding of 70 percent from
KPKN as the IBRD share, plus 30 percent from Bank Rakyat Indonesia
re. Inpres Dati II as the local counterpart sharet
2.  An equipment supply contract awarded to a domestic contractor could
specify funding of 100 percent of the ex-factory prices from KPKN
as the IBRD share, plus the balance of the contract sum,
representing local transport overheads and taxes, from Kas Daerah
Dati II (PADS/PBB) as the local counterpart source.
For each stage payment the contractor would be paid through the issue of two
(or, in exceptional cases, more) payment orders: one (or more) drawn on the
appropriate treasurer for local counterpart funding source, and one issued by
the KPKN in the relevant provincial capital. Before certifying the latter
payment order, KPKN would verify that the counterpart payment order(s) had
been drawn for the ccrrect amount in accordance with the specified IBRD
financing proportion. DG Budget of the Ministry of Finance would issue a
Circular Letter to KPKN in Surabaya and Denpasar instructing them to undertake
this duty of verifying that the counterpart funding contribution has been
made. Again, local contractors would not have to go to Jakarta to be paid.
Central Government Domestic Lending Arrangements
It is agreed that these loans would be made using the Domestic Lending
Arrangements (DLA) of the Ministry of Finance Directorate of Investment Funds
(MOP-DPI) (See Annex 4-H for description of processing). DDI would advance an
initial tranche of money for sub-project Payments and be 90 percent reimbursed
from the Special Account on the basis of the requisite payment evidences and



- 109 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 4
supporting documentation (see "reimbursement from, and replenishment of, the
Special Account' on page 6).
Budgetary authorization for the Special Account drawdowne would be provided
through the Rencana Anggaran Tahunan (RAT) procedure. DJB would order
advances of monies from RDA to a designated Sub-project Account in a local
bank, on which payment orders would be drawn in favor of contractorsisuppliers
by the sub-project implementing agency (Pimpro/Bendaharawan Proyek). The
latter would then submit copies of the payment orders and other supporting
documentation to DJB (DDI) for further advances and for DLA reimbursement from
the Special Account.
(Notet DJB (DDI) are unwilling to agree to loans for projects which would
finance procurement made under bulk purchase contracts covering a number of
borrowers in which those borrowers are not directly-contracting principals.
DDI also has reservations about an arrangement under wnich each borrowing
regional government or regional enterprise concludes a separate procurement
contract with a single nominated supplier selected on their behalf under open
competition).
Further details of the envisaged possible on-lending arrangement is provided
in Annex 4H.
Maintenance of PFAMS Records
Implementing agencies (Pimpros) would be responsible for notifying PFOs in the
relevant loca.l governments of all payments made - through the provision of
copies of certified payment orders (SPM) - so that the payments can be
recorded in the Project Memorandum Accounts (PFAMS). These copy payment
orders must be provided individually at the time the transactions take place.
Payments Made in Foreign Currencies
Where deemed appropriate, certain technical assistance, training and ICB
procurement contracts would be paid in foreign currency. In certain
circumstances the payments would be made directly by IBRD; in other cases they
would be made from the EJBUDP Special Account.
Whe-e the foreign currency payments relate to Department of Public Works DIP
budgetary allocations, the DIPs would be drawn up in an analogous way to the
procedures described above under 'payments made in Rupiah*. In some cases it
could happen that a single DIP document specified funding from all modes,
namely:
DIP Rp RK (denominated in Rupiah, but including the estimated Rupiah
equivalent of possible foreign currency payments made from the EJBUDP Special
Account);
DIP Devisa Pembayaran Langsung (denominated in US Dollars, irrespective of the
actual currency of payment);



ANNEX 6
- 110 -                                Page S
these together representing the IBRD funding share in accordance with the
specified IBRD disbursement percentages, plus
DIP RP APBN,
representing the central government domestic counterpart share.
Where the foreign currency payments relate to sub-project components financed
under the envisaged central government on-lending scheme described above, the
RAT budgetary authorization documents would be drawn up in a manner analogous
to that just described for DIP documents. The RATs would be drafted by
project Implementing agencies of the borrowers (Pemda Tk II or BUMD) and
submitted in the first instance to DDI.
Direct Payment Arrangements
Established standard procedures would be followed whereby IBRD makes the
payments to the contractor on the application of the relevant EJBUDP
implementing agencies through Bank Indonesia. In the case of direct payments
relating to contracts financed under on-lending agreements, implementing
agencies would submit the payment applications to Direktorat Dana Investasi
(DDI) in the Ministry of Finance, who would pass them on to Bank Indonesia.
IBRD (RSI) would periodically notify CPFO of all direct payments thus made.
CPFO would in turn be responsible for notifying PFOs in each local government
of the relevant direct payments made in relation to their local government's
PJM, so that the payments can be recorded in the Project Memorandum Accounts
(PFAMS). In the case of direct payments relating to contracts financed under
on-lending agreements, CPFO would also notify DDI in order that the payments
can be recorded in the borrowers' loan accounts.
(Notes Concerning Direct Payment contracts in relation to on-lending
agreements, see the Note under 'Central Government on-lending^ above).
Payments from the Special Account
Payments for elegible expenditures would, on application by the relevant
EJBUDP implementing agencies, be ordered by DG Budget (TUA) directly from the
EJBUDP Special Account. For such payments relating to contracts financed
under on-lending agreements, implementing agencies would submit the payment
applications to DDI, who would in turn forward them to TUA. The process
normally involves the issue by TUA of two payment orders ($PM): the first SPM
specifies the payment amount in the relevant currency, together with the
estimated Rupiah equivalent; a later, supplementary SPM is issued to adjust
the Rupiah equivalent to the actual figure notified by Bank Indonesia at the
time of payment. (This latter SPM shows the Rupiah adjustment only, and can,
of course, be for a positive or negative amount). In the case of such
payments relating to DIP authorizations, the official copies of these two SPM



- 111 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 6
intended for the Ministry of Public Works would be sent by TUA to the
CPFO/1, which would be responsible for (a) sending photocopies to the PFO in
the relevant local government so that the transaction can be recorded in the
PFAMS, and (b) sending on the official copies to the relevant DG in the
Ministry of Public Works. In the case of such payments relating to RAT
authorizations in respect of the envisaged on-lending arrangement, the
official copies of the two SPMs would be sent by TUA to DG for Monetary
Affairs (DDI) who would record the payment in the appropriate borrower's
account and also send photocopies of the SPMs to the PFO in the relevant local
government.
Reimbursement from and Replenishment of, the Special Account
EPIN, through the local branch of Bank Indonesia would directly draw on the
EJBUDP Special Account in respect of payments made under the DIP (Rp RK)
channel.
Reimbursements from the Special Account to the RDA in respect of payments made
under the envisaged central government on-lending arrangement would be ordered
by DG Budget (TUA) on application of DDI supported by the following
documentation:
(i) the payment orders (SPM)-) drawn by implementing agencies
(namely, Pemda Tingkat II and PDAM) on the local sub-project
on-lending bank accounts;
5ii) certificates of Performance (Berita Acara) issued by
implementing agencies;
(iii) copy of IBRD 'No Objection Letters in the case of civil works
contracts with a value of US$ 500,000 equivalent and over, and
goods supply contracts with a value of US$ 200,000 and over.
On the application of D-G Budget (TWA), IBRD would replenish the Special
Account quarterly or when the balance in the Special Account becomes 50
percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs sooner in respect of these
drawings. In the case of civil works contracts with a value of US$ 500,000
equivalent and over and goods supply contracts with a value of US$ 200,000
equivalent and over, and all contracts for consultancy services and training,
the replenishment applications would be supported by the following
documentations
(i)  the payment orders (SPM or SPMU) issued by KPKN offices, or
drawn on local sub-project on-lending bank accounts, or issued
1l  Authority for TUA to do this, and for the role of the CPFO in this
respect, will have to be provided by the Ministry of Public Works,
either through an SI of the Secretary-General, or through a joint SK of
Dir-Jen Cipta Karya, Bina Marga and Pengairan.



-112-                                 ANNEX 6
Page 7
by TUA in respect of foreign currency payments from the Special
Account;
(ii) certificates of Performance (Derita Acara) issued by
implementing agencies;
(iii) copy of IBRD 'No Objection Letter".
In the case of civil works and goods supply contracts/orders with values below
these limits, the replenishment applications would be supported by Statements
of Expenditure (SOE). The detailed supporting documentation in respect of
SOEs would be retained by TUA and implementing agencies, and made available
for review by IBRD on request.



-113 -P age 8
- 113 -
EAST JAV-AlUl URBMN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(US  ililons)
Urban s*ctor prof-ile tor
Oiabur eeent                     Cuuletive        Indonesle
Semester ending          In sefmeter  Cumultive amount  percentage   cumulativo percentage
June 80, 1991                   8.6             8.6            1.9                 0.0
Decmber 81, 1991                6.9             12.4           8.0                 0.0
Jun. 80, 9M                    19.6            81.9           18.6                 2.0
December 81, 1992              19.2            61.5           29.0                 7.0
Jun. 80, 1998                  19,9            71.4           89.6                14.0
December 81, 1998              20.0             91.4          50.7                26.0
Jun. 80, 1994                  20.8           111.7           62.0                87.0
December 81, 1094              20.0            182.6          78.6                46.0
June 80, 1995                  19.7           162.2           84.4               52.0
December al, 1995              16.7            170.9          94.                568.0
June 80, 1996                   9.4           160.8          100.0               64.0
December 81, 199                -               -              -                  70.0
June 80, 1997                   -               -              -                  76.0
December 81, 1997               -               -              -                  01.0
June 80, 19                     -               -              -                  865.0
December 81, 1996               -               -              -                  00.0
June 80, 1999                   -               -              -                  96.0
Decoeber 81, 1998               -               -              -                 100.0
* The disbursement schedule 1s shorter then the standard Dank proftle becwuse the propoWed Loan
is a programmatic operation supporting an expenditar. program that includes no new or complex
subprojeet and which la not significantly larger In real term than program  aIready
loplemented successfully In the same province  (me  Chapter IV, Section C).



A6m 
- 114 -                               Page 9
INDONESIA
gASt JAVA - A_LI IJR_N OELOPMET PROJECT
Calculatlon of Sank Disbursement PorcnteMl
Total Pror         Disburegento *jn0
Np In b    m         Pore nt    Rp bnl a
A. Program Intfrstructure Development A OAM
Expendtlure finnned by RDA loans
Melons minl water supply prograumL           10.0      5.8         0        0.0    0 0Q
Other water enterprise loans                 81.0    42.6          g0      72.9    88.8
Loans to local goveronmnt                    28.6    12.4          s0      21.2   11.1
Other Expenditures
Land acquisition                             11.0      5.8         0        0.0     0.0
Civil works                                 210.9   120.9         7O      146.0   77.9
IC8 equipment & msterrls                     17.6     9.8          0       17.6    9.8
Taxes & duties on I0C oquipment A mterial    6.2       2.7        6a       0.0    0.0
LCD equlpment A material                     28.1    14.8         6e       18.2    9.6
Current Om exponditure                      180.6    68.7          0        0.0    0.0
Incremntal DAM expenditure                  52.4    27.6           0       0.0    0.0
Contracted design A supervision             25.0    18.1          100      26.0   1S.1
In-bouse deeign and supervision              11.9     6.8          0       0.0    0.0
Civil works and oquipment not
eligible for I8RD loan disbursement
Wator enterprise Internally funded
Investmnts                                21.6    11.4           0       0.0    0.0
Expenditure financed by private
contributions                              18.1     6.9          0       0.0    0.0
Non-ICe-purchased vehiclee                    4.8      2.5          0      0.0    0.0
S. Program Management and Institutional
Development
Amount financied by Sank Loan                  80.6    16.1         100      80.6   16.1
Amount financed by Japanese grant               8.0      4.2          0       0.0    0.0
Total Project Cost /b                         666.5   860.5
less taxes and duties                       47.4    24.9
less current 0W                            180.6    68.7
les  land  cquieltlon                       11.0      5.8
Net amount eligible for I8RD                  496.4   261.1          69.1   842.6  1800.3L
b   Malang loan comited prior to appraisal of projectl not included In I8RD loan.
E b xeluding lnterest during construction.
cIncludes 84.8 million plae d in the unallocated category.



- 115 -!UL
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA - AL URMAN SEVELOPUENT PROJECt
Kew !oms.mntat10n and Performance Indicotors and R.oorClnc Sxstms
Rweorting
ifrquency *and                Reporting
Sndlcators                                                  r epon1btility               to3
1. Prmg _ mplementatlon Agrement
*tnlization      sid *lgning  hehdule                 cartrly
PPIO                   1) CPMO
1iCPMO                  (21) TiKPP/IMO
CPVO               ~~~~~nd IDNO
2. Expenditure program and subprojct
appraisal schedule by provincall torms               quarterly
(1) PPMO                  () CPMO
(2) CPUO                  (2) TKPP/!ma
*nd 1350
8. Conformity of annual budget allocation
with approved expenditure program and
financing plans                                     annual
(1  PFO                   (2) PFO
(2) PPFO                  (2 CPfO
() CPfO                  (8) 4npo'G
and I=5
4. Conformity of *acul expenditures with
budget i loations                                     annual
(1) PFO                   (2) PPfo
(2) PPFO                  (2) CPfO
8) CPF                   (8) TKPP/ZIM
end I=N
S. PIL/AAL preparation scedule                               uarterly
(1) PUO                   (2  PPMO
(2) PPW O                    CP(O0
8) CPO                   () TKPP/flm
and 13R
B. RAP/LIDAP targe  and tlim  table                         gureXrly
(1) PMO                  (1) PPMO
(2) PPIIO                t2) CPM^O
(3) CPMO                 (8) TKFp/ZlU
Loan disbursement target.                                  quarerly
CPFO                          TKPP/ZIU
and I8RO
S. Consulting er"vie  implementation schedules,
particularly tassgnment strt                         quarterly
CPMO                          TKPP/IU0
and IN
S. Physlcal Prore  per local governmnt                      qrterly                      PPO
10. Procuremnt schdules                                     quarterly
(1) PPMO                  1) CPMO
(2) CPIIO                 2) 1KP/IUQ
and 195



-   11j   -                               __ __
E"T JAVA - MU    EN DEVIELOPENT MROJECT
Loeal  o2ernment Promle"
Eust JtAv  Loal Governmnt
Administrative  Total Population                  Urban Populotion  Urbn Popultlon
Local              Status                           Population        tUWS Proj      NUDS Projection
@overnmant                            1910             1990              190              1990
(R_leit ProJ)       (Total)        (> 600 inh )  (
1. Mojokorto      Kotamadya             96,766            79,600           107,164          107,184
2. Paouruan       Kotmadyn              167,627          129,484           160,806          160,808
S. Probollanggo   Kotamadys             162,820          119,616 I         144,289 I        144,269
4 Kediri          Kotamadys             28,718           222,009           244,728          244,728 1
S. Sumoep         Kabupoatn             061,420           67,826            67,26            S 18,043
6. Lamongan       Kabupaten           1,820,006          186,462           186,482          132,062
7. Bnyuwangi      Kabupaten           1,8699,07          564,881           564,861          684,861
S. Sldoarjo       Kabupaten          ,A1,142,8           274,665           274,86           2568,859
9. Jaber          Kabupaten           2,066,879          402,067           402,019          402,019
Sub Tote 1                           7,576,420        2,015,676         2,141,556        2,114,938
BATCH II
10. Situbondo      Kabupeten            676,168           156,686           156o,10           16,610
11. Lumajang       Knbupte,n            946,968           127,264           127,2688I        127,268
12. MaIang     I  Kabupaton           2,866,004           227,00            227,60o          227,800
18. Pasuruan       Kabupaton           1,162,146          190,618           190,612          162,649
14 Tulungagung    Kabupaten             940,666           205,249           205,249          190,617
|15 Ponorogo        Kabupaten            688,758            78,697 |         78,6997           7 7,897
Io  Jombang        Kabupaten           1,049,816          155,584 I         15S,584          150,S9 
17. Madiun         Kotoadys             206,840           168,426           240,066          240,656
16. Bonjonegoro    Kabupaten           1,202,190          127,688           127,682          121,82 
119. Tuban          KabupOten          1,029,760            92,096           92,098            92,098 |
20. Oreslk         Kabupaten            682,611           159,688           159,886          148,986
121. Bangkalan      Kabupaten            759,447            52,918          108,747            95,664 I
122. Blitr          KoIa dys             £80,142           120,147          185,916 1         185,918
28. Sa=ng          Kabupaten             709,947           50,995 |          54,806           s 50,009
24. Pamsoan        Kabupaten            689,a86            55,179            56,179 j         C0,277
ISub Tota I                                       I 
| Sub Tot l           |      l$~~~~1,513,878   1,990,425         2,109,2883204,7 
BATCH III
125. Oondowoso   l  Kabupaten            677,266            51,200 1         51,200            5 51,200
26. Probollnggo    Kabupaten             675,796           77,462 I          77,462 1         68,498
27. Mojokerto      Kabupaten             918,025           61,111 1          61,110 I         56,612 1
I26. KWdiri         Ka                 ISupaten   I  1,89,16  06,499 I9 9 9                    81,898
129. Blitar     l  Kabupaten           1,069,626            66,560 I         66,560            66,560
. 0: Trongpl.k      KCabupaten           662,411 |88,29                      86,290            86,296
81 Pecit tn    |  K*tpen o               W506,864          16,622            16,622           186,22
I2. tonjuk     l  Kabupaten   1         97,5886           116,761           116,761          110,658 1
88. Madlun     I  Kabupaten   I         686,560            42,561            42,561           42,561 1
a4. Magtan         Kabupaten   I        699,064            61,665            61,685           59,461
8ss. Ngawi          Kabupaten            961,821            30,714 10,714 10,714
18. Ialang         Kotmadys             662,868           662,866           662,868          662,86e
Sub Tabs I               9nenaaea.a I ana.I
l Sub Totl      I               1      9,661,89 1        1,88,061 |       1,848,166 I       1,809,1665
7Totua I                              80,970,157         5,854,168         5,596,s65        5,465,572
I 87. Surabtys      Kotamdya           2,867,840         2,867,840        2,867,640         2,867,940
Otber Urban                           17,549           17,549            17,549           17,549 1
New   Urban                           30,000           30,000            80,000           80,000
ITotI II                              88,865,546         7,769,652        6,014,244         7,680,961 



-117 -N
DV87 JAVA - MUs uIM 2                Mona
iiocl Oovernint Prof Il.t East avaL EiLch ?
Urban Popul;-    Loc;tion      _      _     _t    _        _        _        _et Urent
No.    LQ-aL    tion Projection          in            Important    Development             CIty              Probls
Governeent    11989-19P)        e. Java          =conom        Prioritlec          Function              to be
(IUIDP)                          Sector.                                                Solved
1.   PrebolIngeo    2  S p.m       North Comet      7,6,T .1.4,2      O,D,A,F,O       I, 21
2.   K edri          2,Se p.           Inl and      4 (CIrrettee,   A(l),i,t,Q.E    S, I                 Traffic Management
sugar)
S.   MoJokerto       2,211 p.*         Inland       8. t, 2           A,D,F,G,E        S, SS, III       DOrainae ste
4.    Paeuruen       2  S p,o      North ConOt    4 (Mom.)             C,D.,OB.F.E     I
S.   Benjuuangl      1.75 p.m      E"t Comet        8. I, 6           A.D.F.B.0,E    IV
- tcncmr       0,B6  p.a     bat Comet        4 (Filh conning)  A,D,C,i
- Rogoja*#I    I t p.n      Ebat Coaet        S, 6                    F         Rehebilltetlon
of locol mrket.
- GOnteng      I S p.a       Eist Coaet                         D,C,A,e
6.   Suop            1.61 p.o       eat Coast       e. 4 (melt)       A.C.D.9,F        I
of Madura
7.    Lamongan       1.55  p.m     North Eset       6                 A,0,9.0          I                 Flooding
8.    Jesber         1.75  p.m    Mountani)ue      6                 A,.D,,C,C        S, SS, III
814carjo  2,511 P.     (In"ad
9.                                       l4doerJo  2,8  p.  Inland  0,4.8  A,V,C,8     I, SI
Econoic Sectore -                  Clt Function                                      D v.lopment Poritles
1. Traneportation                  I,   Adminietrative Canter                         A  Water Supply syste
2. CeomunIcation                   II.  Comerelal Centre                              S. Solid   aste Management
8. Trade                           1Ut. Educational                                   C. brain*g 
4. lIdustry                         IV, Regional Development                         0D  urban fede
5. Public Alinistration                 Centre                                        E. KIP
6. Agriculture                                                                        P. mile?
w.Ii as ate



118  -                                              Page 8
EM   JAV~A-NU LMUM REO=VLPU  PROJ!
Be I Loc I Oovarnefl
Adminletration Total Population    Total Urban    Urban Population Urban Popuiltln     fatlated
LocaL         Status                         Populstion       t40S Proj      NUDS Projection  IUIDP iunctional
Covornment                        1990            1990              1990            19           Urban Population
(ResIat Proj)      (Total)       (  O   I0           Projection
1             2               8                4                b'               6                 7
BATCH I
1. IADO         KAUPATEN             890 200          480,040          872,828          872.28              278.274
2. OUJLO        KAIMArN               W80963          148,808          184.778          149.902             6u.86
8. JMAq          KA5WPAT7N           207,888           838008           82,088           82.08               81.279
4. KUN.O1       iASPATiN             138.89            48,850           290840           29,040              29,08
SUB TOTAL                         1,484,888         692,714          8",998           t84,124             406,968
BATCH 11
S. TAOANMN      KARPATB4             880 200           72 542           81 202           89 796              80oe40
6. IAWAR        N AWJPATEN           828,042          181.980           90,648           90,496              88.797
7. BDJ4U         (AUUPATBN           174.172           as,710           82,081           48760               to.074
0. KARANOASS4    KALJPATEN           847?976           07,676           76607?           78,07               42,284
SUB TOTAL                         1,18,890   '      8se0.51          278,208          258,667             127,788
T 0 T A L                        8,eeo,24s         1,048,280         062,280          089.91              884,721
Notes
(4) Bseod on propoaed urban area
(8)  Coabinatlon figures between
11 regilatred urban population by tLUS
and the other propoad urban area
(7) Derived from functional urban area
In 1980 and In 1994
Criterion functional urban area
- Reldential Density > 80 P/h.
- Urban Facillties > 8 kinds
- Ariculture Employment > 2SX.
EAS  JAVA -BALI MOMA  DE4VELOME    ROEC
Bali I atch I Loc4 Ioverniments
Urban Popula- I  Location                 most        II                                    I   Most Urgen
No. I Local          tion Projectioni           In           Important    ID.velopmentl             City          I    Problem
Government        1999-1i968              ali l         Economic G     Priorities          Function                to be
I    (IUIDP)                             Sectors                                                    Solved
-----------                 --------   ---- --- --------…                                               --.---
1      i3ndung                   1.98    South Coast   7,6,8,1,4,2            A,S,C,D,C    I, II, III, IV           Traffic, Solid
2.    Sul-lon                    1.68    North Coast   0,8,4,7,2    C1 AO                     I, II, III, N         Dranage
8.     Jesbrana                  1 80    South Const    6,2                 1 A,B,E           I, TV
4    I Klungkung                  1 88   South West         6,4                8,D,E          I, IV
Economic Sectors :                        City Functions                                      Oevclopment Priorities
1  Transportatlon                         I.    Administrative Center                         A. Water Supply System
2. Comunication                           II.  COmmercifl Centre                              S. Solid Wast
8. Trade                                  III. Educational                                    C. Drainage
4  Indusery                               IV.  Regional Development                           0. Urban Roads
5. Public Adnalnstration                         Centre                                       E. KIP
6  Agrioculture                                                                               F. VIIP
7. Tourism                                                                                    0. Human Waste



-119 -                              AMEX9
-119-~~~~~~~*
INDONSIA
g   Jva - U    ~           -EVELOMSIT MOJECT
RtAp Su_mmry tost Java.
NR                       Action                                      Purpose
Assessment of Potential
1.  Carry out Identification and description     Availablity of a good (data) bao *_.-
of tax objecte/subjecta with *illd *un-     sent of coverage ratio, collection natio,
vey, by D spenda alon  but a*luo by         tax/foe management, and financial planning.
oer acies. Adequatu  rsch mns
that the  eulte are:  (1) quantified;
(2) accurate; (5) acceseible (computer
prints, reports); (4) up-to-date; (5)
2.  Application of Mapatda, also for  ll         2 proved r*gietration of tax/rate peyer.,
suitable few and charg".                    which will automatically tmprove coverage and
collection ratios. Better performance by the
local reven gseerating executive  agenies
wlth the help ot the b4tter data.
S.  Collaboration with other agencls In the    Improved" uallty of database for revenues
form of exchange of Information.             potential. Available of a key to mesure per-
4.  Have good records (sufficiently accu-        Constant reasooesmnu t of potential and serious
rate, detalled and up-to-date). D0emnd      evaluation of prtormance.
adequate documentation from tax/rate
payers where relovant.
5. Analyse  ..- roved dat  tn order to           Correction of underestimatione of potetlil,
as*ess shortcomng  in perfone_ and           caused by mainly relying on pst per     ne
strengthe  affectivity of menitoring and    In stting targes, and lack of reserch.
supervison.
3.  Easily applicable legl base (tax law,        Assessmet of potetial as quick and accurate
Pords, #t, ete).                             as posible.
Increa" of Potential
7. Reviow tariffs tn Perda every 8-5 yers.    Development of potetial follows econmic
Incraso In line with Inflation,             deelopment.
incrase tn paymet  ap"acty, etc.
Optiml tariff levls for *ee/harge.
S.  For ftss and charg, consider the type
of services
- comrelal:  hould In principle  r
costs of an effilcent service, ut
shesd he affordable for payers In a
caegory, and should net hinder devlop-
sent of th econmie setor If
consilderod deirble.
-   socal    should b  ffordabl forthe
tnx/re  pay*er  of the categories.
g.  Improve qullty ot ""Ice for which            Relatively high tariff levls are better
charSgd   *.. Solid Waste Disposal,         accepted by the public.
cleaning of market.
10. Review structure of tariffs. Simplify         Easier application, lse mliundewstanding
whore posiblo In order to maximize           betwee  offi cials and tax/rat payore,
revenue.                                    Increased IwillInnes  of the public to pay.



- 12') -                                ANNE 9
rose 2
11.  AppIl Perds more strictly.  Apply            Stricter application of rules enables better
caution In the  " of discounts,             mnttoring and control and lmproveo clartfy of
the revenue generating proce.
Ifl. Realization of Potential
12.  Strengthen planalag and monitoring func-    letter ""paratton of functions, so that they
tions of Ped. U1 (fagtn Keuangan),           can be better peformed by the agenle  aIrea-
garticularly for potential assesment.       dy  ssigned to them.
rlintlsh planning function of Olspenda.
Is.  mWpoveo coverage ratio (automatic If         Improved tax mentality, more revenue.
good sesUemnnt of potential. good
regentration and good monitoring of per-
formance are all carriod out).
14.   mprove collection retio:                    Improved tax mntelity, more revenue.
-   monitoring (effective control of proper
application of the rules);
-   enforemnt: fterop action In case of
uejustifled  o-pay"ent, lafge fines of
non-payment after adequate earning.
16.  Derease   rrearo, by writinS off arrsre r      proved tarx metllty, more revenue.
of evr e.g. 5 years old; start juridi-
cal Procings aaint seriously d11h-
quent tax/rate payers (met likely by
baliliff action).
16.  Ensure an adequate lgega  basis to enable    Improvd tax mentality, more revenue.
effective enforcements
-   fines high enough (at l1est 2-S tilm
the sum owed)
-   fast and copiet Juridical procesing
of delinquent tax/rate payers.
17.  Improve admnistration.  In particular,       All obligation  of a tax/rate payer can be
expend Mapetda me thot all obilgations             d qulckly. PlnaScisi audit Is fasillta-
of a tax/rt  payer are covered,              ted.
15.  Improve available equlpment (computers,      Improved and up-to-date databas. Leoler mon-
motrbikes).                                  itorlig.
19.  Increase intives, *.g. for Implement-    Setter motivation and performnc  of all offti-
Inm  aaptd  nd ldentifIcation of tax        clsis conernend.
20.  Smprove srvice level where paying
mentality Is suffering frm Imbalance
between service provided and payment
dfemnded (cleaning markets, POAM etc.)
21.  Know the cost of revenue generation for      Efficlent us of limited reeoures.
aI Important taexs and fees/charge.
22.  Concentrate avallable resource  In
aximizisng revenue collection from major
taxes and fe/charges, and from those
wlth good growth potential (it they
yi-ld more then they costi). Minimiz
resoures spent on unimportnt taxme and
fe/chars  and on theo with low
growth potential. Sut consider both
sides:
- net revenue generated.
- effect, on society (busines growth,
employmnt).



- 121..                             ANNEX
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA -         URAN DEVELORMENT PROJECT
RIAP Summarys Sadune Kabuouten, Bell
Action              Targt                                   Concoened Agencies     Timetable
Coverae              Cnete O  date baen (on computer for    Boglon                   190/91
*1l the major taxes and tees).          Kouangapn/Bappedn,
This data base consists of a11 the      Oispenda SS, OPUK,
tax objoct  and subjects.  Survoys      S. Perekononlan,
are mde  continuously to update         OLLAJR, local autho-
records.                                rities.
Tariff Ane m-       Tarift *soesement (PP I Entertain-    Otopenda t, OPUK,           W9/90 on-
Tait  Amt Tax, PU) are considering in-                      KOH, OPRO  Bagien        going
creaed, based on research               Perekenosian, Olnas
(survey*) and proper recording ot       Keshatan
Costs of eolllectin  major taxee and                             go/go on-
oess have to be estimated.                                       govin
Tariffe  are set to maximiz  revenue                             U9/9S  on-
oonsidering the following criteria:                              going
-    atfordability by the tax/rate
paer;
-    tariff In lIne with quality of
the service supplied;
-    need not to hinder or slow
down desirable economic dev.-
lopment.
Tariffs take account of the dove-                                Rpel te V
lopsent In conomic parameters like
Inflation, growth ot tax base (pop-
ulation, weath, etc.).
Adjustment of the Perda should be
done on a regular basis.
Collection          The collection system tor Individ-      Diependa U and to        Rpl Ita V
uai taxes and tes dopwndo on:           Sg glan Kuansgn, r-
-    the percntag, share of It In       wilkab
the total rvenue and the op-
portunities for monitoring the
colleted *tountu.
-    the lpertance of the tax/te
as compard to cost ot  ol0 lc-
tion.
Elemnta of collection system: tre-
qvnqc, place ot collection, type
Ot recipt, specitfietion In admin-
Istration, ine ntive tor perform-
one.
Creation ot an up-to-date and com-
plete registration ot arra"r, aN        eaglan Koeangan,         1909/90
a realistic plan to deal with bad       Dispenda U
debtor. and chasing up their debt.



- 122 -                 <
Administration      Adminietrativ  forms and procedures     O     t pend. 1, MA       89/9  an-
Monitoring   nd    wl II be deigned to feoelitate of-                                 going
Control             fective control. Mapatda has ben
Introduced.
There 1 effoetive control of per-      Olopends 1, Bagion       89/90 on-
formance by mans ot:                     ovangan                 Going
-    knowledg of real potenttel of
taxes and fees, not only by
Olependa managores but oleo by
sEgian Kounngan and IGDH;
-    a *yst  of surve"  *nd other
filld work for keping records
actual;
-    structure  cooperation betwese
agencios ylelds lmproved data-
base and more opportunity to
find faulty or outdated by
cross-checking.
Legl Bosos          Local Regulatione aro regularly up-    Dispnd  U, Bsaton          09/90 o-
det.. (reco_ ondod to at laost          Ortala, 1KO, Sire         PIng
every 5 yers). Spocial attention        orlas DOM
egivon each time to adequate
tarit levlo and simple tariff
stucre. Supporting doaument
should be prpaer  In time to 
blb epeey approvel.
Tariffs are made known publicly for
monitoring by tw public.
Ftbnetol Plan-    Low revenue taxes and fee  are             Ot_pende U, IOL 11,      Repl Its V
ning and Tax        opersted with a  intimm of resour-       Dlopends  , Oepsgri
Managemnta".
Initiatives are taken, postible to-
gether with other da II, to pr-e
poe the abolishment of ones that
provide negative Incoe._
Targets are set realisticallye             tn    sg n,  0/90 on-
based on adequate re_earch. They        Dipd         2            otn
are verified and  onto by otho
agencie. A mediumer    nancietl
planning should be mae and adjus-
te  eah year.



- 123 -
EAS JAVA - A U0   VOP             
UDIAP Iu&Mr 5 Ega Java
Action                                     Purpo
Explainf/Ois.inato  SUKDP to aIl agencies        Establish effective MOP managmnt and coor-
and staff _ember  oncerned. Give tioely          dinbtlon.
bref Ings about IUZOP functions to staff
concerned.
pr ovo Organizationt make cloer distribu-        Avoid overlap (work Is don  twice) or the con-
tion of taoks betwen (Sub-) Sections and         trary (nobody dos anyting).
between agncieos. E.g. OPUD/Kebersiban,
Dispenda/S. Eeuangan.
Informaton/Plannin:
- freqent poriodical checking of tho cond-         Settwer planning, appraisal, mnitorinet velua-
tion of uran infrastructure,                     tie  of dev lopmentW prooe_.
- ue for database on urban infratructure.         BSeter plannino, pprasal, l onItoring/evalu-
ties of delopnnt process.
- better standards for reporting  quantified,      Setter plan"ing, appraisal,  enitoring/evaluo-
curate, coplete.                                 ties of delop  nt procs.
- more dotailod 61- and 10- year development       Setter planning, appraisal, meaitoring/evelua-
plane for VUIOP sector having priority           tion of devlop      proess for thse sectors.
during Repelita V (Urban Master Plans not
spelfic enough)                                  More ffective control of land uso
- more active planning and control of lond         Moe r  nuoe from building Pormit Fee.
use by lnstitutionollaing effective eco-pe-
rat on between Sapped  (theory) and OPUD
(practices).
Operation and Maintonane:s
- mere bett e maintennce, nicluding intro-         Avoids capital lose becauso of preventable
duction of planned maintenance, based on the     dmage to Infr atructuro.
lnfratructure condition databseo and
improved Inspection.
-    expenditur  s required to mantain the
condition of existing infrastructure and
that which will b btulit during Repe Ita V.
- arrangements with higher jovoenmnt levele
for the maintenance of lnrostructure owned
by the local government but t;th rgional
function.
Strnthen Human Rosources
- mre  tft In Sections with only a Head.           Inese_ productivlty and ceetinuity of work.
- all (Sub-) Sections Important for tUtop          Increase productivity an  continuity of work.
should have a Head.
- strenothn departments an  soctions of             btter qulity of work end management.
import nc  for tUtop with perennel having
the right background and levl of education,
prticularlys  planoloy, civil eginering,
project appraisal, ldoon, elronic
data proessing and stre.
assign peronnel specifically to mintenance       Setter skills of personnel; beter maintan-
of each type of infrastrucure.                   ane; es"er personnol planning.



- 124 -                              ANNEX 10
Page 2
Strengthen Monitoring of Prfeorence:
n er.ngthen rol- of gnclo nlreody In             Snerao e officieney
eharge. motnitoring.
oOmplter-*dSd edminiatretion of project.
ore  ctve evluation of perforncmme of
Dlspenda uepectively OPUD.
oevlop Manpowet
lanree  pertlolpation of management end          Improve clviI ser vice performance.
staff In training courree, esp. I
manngamsnt and project appraisal I2) CoMpu-
terised dats proceslng, analysis and ate-
rago; (3) Plsnology; (4) Official g.nersl'
couren (for middle_-lovel management); (5)
On-the-job training In operation and
(planned) mintenencs.
Increeas Reocurcar
computer ayo"" with prlnter end operational      Revenue geerati on.
bwudge for key IUlOP egeclees sapped.,
OPUD, 0. Keberslkon, Olsponde, S.
Penbongunen, S. Koeuangen.
_man  of transport for more active wnd fre-
quent monitoring of physical preoroe of de-
w lopm464  projec$t. Motrbikes are suffl-
cleat for Kodye.



-125                                   ANNEXIO
rose 8_
EAST JAVA - SA? MM OVJ0MEN  PROECT
LISDAP Sumerys hI?
Problem             Clarifleatlen                                 Neces"sry Actlon.
Di_ssination       There t not ye  good coordinatlon ao4ng       Dieminato VDDP
Of IDP              the various partioe. Tooks of the              materlo/informatlon to all
toehnical teams are not clear enough.         ZUXDP teo  members and agencies.
Make work pro4raues and Improve
proedures.
Progrm Evalua-      Clarlfication to needed for appralial         Strengthen the provincial and
tion and            criteria and guidelines.                       locl government's t ehnleal
Appraisal                                                          teams.
Structural          There are still vacant positions rsult-    Improvement of skillod and
Positions           Ing from lack of adequately trained            reruitment to nncessary.
candidates.
Personnel/Staff     There Is a lack of well Iquallfld staff       Inease staff for 8a=a,
for progrm   VWnd project preparatlon,        OPWU, Dispanda and tSowi Ida for
monitorlag and evaluation, management         planniag, enginering, monlto-
and Aecountaney                               ring end mnagement.
Training            Strengthening of staff's capability io        Prpare and lmplement sraining
necessa-y for all aeneles to fulfill         programee and project propara-
thelr NtUP functions.                        Itn, monitoring nd evalution
for Sappeda, t ehnical plnanng
and manageme"nt for DPUD, accoun-
tancy *nd' financial management
for S ispanda and Sekwi rda
Equipment           There is not adequate equipment to            Make *avaiable new and addition-
d ticointly prepare progaerse, monitor        a  equipment such as computers
project. and implement proposed revenue       and motorbikes, ftiing cabinet.,
increasing action.                            etc.
Oparation and       Poor Plnanng and implementation of ope-        mprove planning and management
Maitenanne         ration and maintenance is among others        for 08M funcetions; incerse
caused by a lac k of funde and staf.          staff and budgets for DAM.



- 126 -
3*2 JAV.3L 1l*N4^98E   A0=
Ram.       Ia.
() (   . (8)     6)      (7)      (6)      (9)    (10)
}u                as OT 0  1 19      NA     19.9      0.     19.9    0.      1 8   0
196      67s               I.0 M'     A      1.0      0.0'    2.     0.0'    1.0      In
2.  idt1          6      26.7    16.0    96.7    0.0    1s.7           0.0    16.7    8.0     18.2      a1
1966    81.4    1l.6t    19        64.      46.8      0.0    46.8   14.1    82        1
16      2"6.7    12. 4     77:.6    70.9     6.4      0.0    6.4    2.4      4.0       21
167     29.8   212.6    62.7   78,.          9.4      0.0 a    .4    2.8    6.9        61
S. L8...S.        4      tj.8      97.8     1.0   16.6    1.           0.0   10.6    0.0   11.6       18
SOU  tS.     111.9   (11.9)  188.8    *4.        0.0    11.0    0.0    X48.0   -181
1668     16.8    16.0    S0.8   82.4.       12.2      0.0  (0.2    0.0 11M9          -6
1967/0    164.1    18 6. a    (25.2)  A    (.2        0.0 (o..    0.0o (.            .11
4. PSaleiJ<4    19"4    111.          1 100.  1 1.4  NA    12.4        0.0    11.4    0.0    11.4      101
1966    230.9     6:62     41.7   27.       1.        0      1       0.      14.9  2 11
196     178      1262       6.       I4     1 2.      0.0   I16.2             16.2     96
16       W07.6    119.6    6S7     8 4.    $6.1       0 .0    1 8.1    0.0   83.1     2
6. J-ardi.       1964    60.9   409.6   891.1   91.4    299.7          0.0   19.7   600.4   110.63     67
196     681.4   660.    O01..   146.1    186.        0.0   18.$   46.6   107.9        16N
I19    119.8    691       449.8    0.4   296.9        0.0     6        .6     1.1 
196    1366.2    2.       816.8  129.2   20.1         0.0    6.1    06.    1: .9      SIN
ioe4    tCO.      fO.       0.8      N1 a00                  o8        .       . 
a                             Ui ~~~~~9a 4:  0  'o V             M  J    1 1P  'IF  g43 
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             8.   e 2,04.9   91   a n.o s. 4502S        00. 0  2N.      0 S40    .0v
1966    46.      1611.0    80.9    96.9       10..0  4 80   14     .0 47.9  114.1     IS
196     476.1   12        1".7   69.9   106.6    41.0   162.o   81.4   111.4          s1
7. J.rb          1964    242.6     7.8    10.8   14.1   139.           0.0   10.0   06.6   114.4       87S
Xts06~~~Ig        an. 3@. 2.                            3.                       0. 0. 0 0.-00i.0n
196      886.8   140.6   196.8   11.2    81.8    18.6  (8.8)    0.0  (8.8)    -18
1966    440.8   210.8   2680.1   186.: 7    91.4   1,94.9  (10.8    0.:0  (100.6    -18
1"      71S.8   290.9   441.9   1.$   16.             2.6   61.6.    0.0    61.        as
S. SUnaw         196       330
1906     M 111.    108.     6.       NlA     6.1     10.0    4.11    0.10    6.U6
1966     100.1    99.8      0.6      NA      0.6      0.0    0.8      0.0    0.0       11
1967    1128    112.0       0.8      NA      0.0      0.0    0.8      0.0    0.6       fl
9. btduo         1966   2,014.0  1,871.0   646.0   417.0   216.0       0.0   216.0   84.0   16.0       u1s
196t  2,897.0  1,46.0   981.0   08.0   410.0          0.0   410.0   189.0   14.0      17S
1967   1,944.0 ~~~,666.0  1,0.  1,119.0    187.0  0.0   187.          S"6.     190  a1
146n    , 77t.0                     0 ..0186.0 122.0   869.0  0.0   86S.0   1.0  246.04  la2
10. 60Ieloe     1968     410.    149.8    161.8   112.4    89.        0.0   89.1    8.8   86.          10s
1966    418.    811.    100.7   126.9   (26.2)       0.0   (16.1)   14.1  (87.6        6
1967    6M.1   61.1    161.0   164.         1.8      0.      (86)    24    (8.9       -,11
166     646.4   440.4    206.0   1784         .       0.0    326       a.   86.1        a
11. JP..w   19646         78.9    76.       (.)      00        .0      .0      .0    0.0    0.0         Os
(VC )      1658        97.1    96:,0     01.1    0.0'     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         01
1667 119.9   140.7   (10.1      00        .0       .0      .0      .0    0.0       01
16/6 166.9   161.1      4.7     0.0      0.10     0.0'    0.0    0.0    0.0        ox
196/9  0.2   M0. 7      1.8    0.0       0.0      0 .0    0.0    0.0      0 .0     08
12. MIugk.a*    96/66     46.0    27.       18.6    0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         01
(F1) 196/0       66.      0.0      6800             0.0      0.0    0.0    0.:0    0.:0        0
1907/0    186.9    16        12.      0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
196/9  0.0    194.0    18.0   60.0   (48.0)       0 .0  (46,.0)    0 ,0   (48,0)   -116
FILE Nv- 



a   la0 §   | g | ^   2   0   ff   |      
!           't
- - - -I  -                    - - -      - - - -           -  -  -  - - - -
I~~~~~~~I
It                                                                             I            I . _ . . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _  _,  , I
g                                                          I                        |I2t,@|I 1
-i             -----------                                                              - -m
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '' I -                                               f   '
I                                        £~~~~~~~~~~~I
- - - __ -_ - - - __ - - - - - - -       - - - - - - - - T I --
a    p    o    ,o  ,o   o    o    o   ~~~~o    o           a o                                           t  ZI     1 
* ~          1o                                                          C                     
& 30   0        0     0i                     0       30        0    0        ts     :    ,
_     _ _    _    _    _    _  _    _    _    _       _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ __.410



ANNEX 11
-128 -                               Page 3
8ELECTEO FINANCIAL DATA
1. MOJOKERTO                           1969     10        191      192      1998     1s"      1995     lose
Population - 000                   97.97   100.08   102.21   104.58   106.99   109.69   112.86    114.6
Pop. served - ooo                  14.99    16.24      16.8     16.8    17.81    17.96    17.?9    17.96
X Pop. *erved                       16.83    16.23    15.01    14.61    16.23    16.4X    10.03    16.?1
Water connections - 000             2.85     2.67     2.76      2.77     8.16     8.20     8.26     8.20
Employses/1000 connection             17       16        16       16       14       18       18       18
Water consupt. (MS/mt/"on)          19.0     19.2      16.9     21.6     22.6     22.6     22.6     22.6
Volume produced (thousand .8)      646.4    678.7    904.2   1008.6   1199.1   1209.7   1191.9   1191.9
Volum  Sold (thousand M8)          566.1   898.7   628.6    717.0   669.5    669.5   689.6   $89.6
X Unaccounted for water               623      48X      461       403      86x      803      843      84X
Average  tariff (Rp/M8)              184      287      284       286      857      864     6s6o      se
Total operating revenue            90.60   168.05   161.77   191.68   882.11   889.42   617.66   618.96
Total operating expene s            1.59    94.09   110.89   182.46   284.88   2s.86   274.01   266.cs
Depreciation                       85.64   83.80    40.59    42.82    79.69   114.94   182.06   188.82
tncom  after deprciatlon          -86.78    20.66    10.79     0.66    17.64   -s8.66   110.79   6s.66
Interest charges                       0        0        0        80       60       6o     92.7     92.7
tnternal cash generoation           0.86    40.49    41.61     48.8    64.02    116.1  244.81   228.88
3rants                                 0        0       160      150       60   182.66        0        0
Loans                                  0    66.01      290       $00      800      140        0        0
Debt aervice                           0        0        0        80       50      60      92.7    92.7
Debt service ratio                    NA       NA     0.00      1.44     1.66     1.94     2.64     2.47
-- -- -- - --  - -  -- -- - -- - - -- -- -- -_- -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - -------
Inveseents                          0.00    41.00   590.60   415.00   224.10      0.00     0.00     0.00
Operating fix d assets           1112.14  1189.69  1249.49  1811.90  2569.84 8266.61  848.9.6  a811,68
3 Debt to debt + equity              0.0M     6.1X    27.93    49.7x    61.03    49.6X   40.6X    47.6x
# Day  accounte receivable           178     11        108      6s        78       72       so       66
2. KEDSRI
Population - 000                  272.69   276.19   287.19  266.08   804.66   814.08   822.68   881.04
Pop. served - 000                  12.82    18.12    18.42    18.72    14.02    14.82    14.62    14.62
X Pop. served                        4.73     4.73     4.?%      4.6x    4.6X      4.6S     4.5X    4.4X
Water eonnectlons - 000             2.64     2.80     2.0s      2.7      2.78     2.64     2.90     2.90
Etployec/J1000 connection             21       24       24        28       28       22       22       22
Wte*r consu.pt.(08/mt/con)          86.5    86.1       85.7    s6.8    85.0       84.e    84.8    84.8
Volume produced (thousand e8)     16s6.1  160S.s  1622.6  1568.6  1607.7  1590.8  1599.7   1699.7
Volume Sold (thousand .8)         1118.1  1126.8  1189.4  1152.6  1105.7  1178.8  1192.0  1192.0
X UnaccountOd for water               423      42X      42X       87       8 sox   s8x       84x      843
Average tariff (Rp/Sd)               827      428      416       420      S81      629      644      644
Total operating revenue           868.7    461.05   461.46   490.29  627.86   682.91   776.92   778.62
Total operating  xpenses          276.865  801.61   811.9    828.67   88. 19   864.99   862.99   898.96
Dpreclatlon                        67.69    72.74    77.08    76.48    78.61    61.18    91.89    66.61
Income after depreclatlon          19.62    106.6    92.42   68.19   214.66   196.79   804.64   268.86
Interest charges                       0        0        0       40       1oo      160   206.10   206.10
Internal cash ganeration           n.66    96.86    96.90   s7.48   117.17   121.80   820.47   824.76
Granta                                 0        0      200       200      16O        0        0        0
Loanm                                  0   167.42      460       61o      750      460        0        0
Debt service                           0        0        0        40      1oo      160    206.1    206.1
Debt service ratio                    NA       NA      ERR      2.44     1.17     0.76     1.69     1.66
Intaement                           0.00   144.40   450.00  650.00   800.00   680.00       0.00     0.00
Operating fixed astbe             667.06   927.74   974.18  1062.66  2127.67  2986.96  8069.66  s228.0e
X Debt to debt + equity              0.0%    16.4X    80.63    66.4      656.93    66.OX    2.6x   49.13
Days accounts receivabl             289      151       106       90       68      0s        79       79



ANNEX 11
-128 -                               Page 3
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
1. *OJOKERTO                           1689     1990       81      1992     1998     1S94     1996    19o
Population - 000                   97.97   100.08   102.21   104.58   100.9"   109.99   112.86    114.5
Pop. served - 000                  14.99    16.24      16.8    15.8   17.81    17.96    17.16   17.90
X Pop. served                       15.81   15.2X    16.01   14.61    16.21    10.41    16.01    19.71
Water connections - 000             2.85     2.57      2.75     2.77     8.16     8.26     8.26     8.26
Eiploymn/1000 connection              17       1s        15       16       14       18       18       18
Water consumpt.(.8/mt/con)          19.6     19.2      16.9     21.6     22.6     22.0     22.6     22.9
Volume produced (thousand ma)      946.4    676.7    904.2   100l .8   1168.1   1209.7   1191.9   1191.9
Volume Sold (thousnd m8)            560.1    598.7    628.6    717.0   689.6    68.6 5    89.5    669.6
X Unaccounted for water               62X      481      46%       401     8so       86x      841      84X
Average tariff (Rp/m8)               184      287      284       286      867      854      560     S51
Total operating revenue            60.50   168.05   161.77   161.68   882.11  J88.42   517.66  518.95
Total operating expense            81.59    94.09   110.89   182.40   284.88   208.86   274.01   260.50
Depreciation                       86.64    88.80    40.69    42.62    79.69   114.94   182.06   180.62
Income after depreciation         -86.78    20.66    10.79     6.55    17.84   -89.68   110.79    66.5S
Interest charges                       0        0        0        80       50      60      92.7     92.7
Internal cash gennrtlon             0.8,    40.49    41.61     48.8    94.02    116.1  244.81   226.68
Orants                                 0        0       150      150       5O  162.80         0        0
Loans                                  0    S9.01      290       800      800      140        0        0
Debt oervlc                            0        0        0        80       S0       s0     92.7     92.7
Debt service ratio                    NA       NA     0.00      1.44     1.08     1.94     2.84     2.47
Invesmento                          0.00    41.00   690.60   415.00   224.10      0.00     0.00     C.00
Operating fixod .s...t           1112.14  1199.99  1249.49  1811.96  2609.64 8260.61  8489.e8  8611.98
1 Debt to debt + equity              0.0     S.11    27.91    49.71   51.01   49.61   49.61    47.01
* Days accounts receivable           178      111       108       88      T7        72       s8       8
2. KEDIRt
population - 000                  272.69   278.19   287.19   298.08   804.80   814.08   822.68   881.04
Pop. served - 000                  12.62    18.12    18.42    18.72    14.02    14.82    14.02    14.62
X Pop. served                        4.71     4.71      4.71     4.61     4.0X     4.61    4.51    4.41
Water connections - 000             2.64     2.60     2.60      2.72     2.76     2.94     2.90     2.90
Employee /1000 connection             25       24       24        28       28       22       22       22
Water con.u.pt.(M8/mt/con)          86.5     86.1    85.7       85.8    85.0    84.6    84.8    84.8
Volume produced (thousand .$)     16S.1   1008.9  1622.5  1508.0  1607.7  1590.8  1596.7  1598.7
Volume Sold (tho_and m8)          1118.1  1128.8  1189.4  1152.6  1105.7  1176.6  1192.0  1192.0
# Unaccounted for water               42X      42X       42X      871      801      8611    841        4X
Average tarlff (Rp/m8)               827      428      418       420      681      529      644      644
Total operating revenuo           865.76   461.06   401.46   490.29  627.86   682.91   776.02   776.62
Total operating expenes           276.85   801.51   811.96   828.67  J89.19   854.99   862.69  $89.96
Oepreciation                       67.69    72.74    77.08    78.48    78.51    61.18    91.89   66.51
Income after depreciation          19.52    100.6    92.42    60.19   214.66   196.79   804.54   268.85
Interest charges                       0        0        0       40       100      160   206.10   206.10
Internal eash generation           72.6e    9.86    96.90   97.48   117.17   121.80   820.47   824.76
Grants                                 0        0      200       200      16O        0        0        0
Loan                                   0   167.42      450      010       760      460        0        0
DObt service                           0        0        0        40      100      to0   206.1    206.1
Debt service ratio                    NA       NA      ERR      2.44     1.17    0.76      1.69     1.58
Invesment                           0.00   144.40   460.00  650.00   600.00  600.00    0.00    0.00
Operating fixed 8sete             067.05   9k7.74   974.18  1082.68  2127.67  2688.9s 8000.58  8228.00
% Debt to debt +  quity              0.0    16.41    8$.0X    55.41    55.9X    56.01    52.61   49.91
Days accounts recelvable            289      161      105        00       88       88       79       79



At1NEX 11
- 130 -                    Page 5
5. SIDOO.10
Population - 000                J25.64   884.79   848.6  858.08  862.55  872.81  82.8   892.06
Pop. "rved - 000                 81.82   122.IS  122.75  122.7   106.05  197.68   190.76   205.56
X Pop. served                      90.    86.7TX    8.7X   84.60    54.15   68.15   62.25   62.45
Water connctlon  - 000            6.81   16.62   10.02   16.62   27.22   27.58   27.64   26.68
Employeye/1000 connection           19       1S       1s      18       10       10      10       10
Water consuapt. (u8/mt/con)       86.4    29.2    29.2    29.2    27.2    27.2    27.2    27.1
Volme produced (thousand d$)    877.9  7428.6  7428.6  7428.6  11215.6  11826.6  11445.7 11855.0
Volum  Sold (thousand ma)       2907.6  5622.6  5622.6   522.6  6 .8  6975.0  9070.2  9an.7
X Unaccounted for water             s0o      27X     27X      27X      265     265      26       265
Average tariff (Rp/uS)             807      862     862      486      468     462      745      746
Total operating revenu         1868.   268.65 2688.2e 8211.70 5186.89 4924.65 7288.60 7591.87
Total operating expe nses70.86  1440.80 1516.52 1620.67 8744.05 807S 81 485.82  4177.66
Oeprelation                     201.70  895.87  501.71  68.29  766.12  1188.16  1272.66  1257.t8
Income fter depreciation        281.47  646.60  426.08  966.66  626.22 -162.12  1609.62  1660.11
Interest charge                   0.00    0.00    0.00  100.00  210.00  840.00  466.80  466.80
lnternal coh generation         247.01  550.48  640.07  011.77  e40.55  957.48 2619.21 2745.40
rant.                             0.00 6841.75   200.00  250.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Loans                           222.90  468.68  1180.00 1250.00 1s86.00 1410.00    0.00    0.00
Debt service                         0        0        0     100      210      840   466.8   465.8
Debt service ratio                  MA       NA      NA    0.12    4.06    2.62    6.06        6.90
Invesments                      222.90  206.40  1500.00 1700.00  1500.00 1270.00    0.00    0.00
Operating fixed  ssets         8275.22 10066.20 10671.61 11100.19 24760.64 80620.56 82151.50 88611.78
X Debt to debt + equity            0.01    6.65    5.ex   86.45   54.65   52.85    54.15   51.75
# Days account rceivable           116       75       76      so       6o      60       6o       so
6. SANYUWANGI
Population - 000                 162.4  164.41  166.79  i690.1   171.66  178.05  176.85   170.69
Pop. served - 000                51.05   51.05   51.06   51.05   51.06   61.06   61.06   61.06
S Pop. served                     81.45   81.15   80.65   80.25   20.65   86.15   84.65   84.1X
Water connection - 000            6.48    6.48    6.48    6.48    6.48    9.60    9.80    9.60
Euploy e/1000 connection            12       12       12      12       12      11       11       11
Water _onstmpt. (n8/mt/co)        27.4    27.4    27.4    27.4    27.4    26.6    26.6    26.6
Volume produced (thouesnd *s)    846o.4  8466.4  8466.4  8486.4  8486.4   018.1  8S01.1  8918.1
Volume Sold (tbousand al)       2701.0  2701.0  2701.0  2701.0  2701.0  8180.5  8180.5  8180.5
X Unaceounted for water             255      25o     25       255      25X     265      2SX      25x
Average tariff (Rp/eS)             1sJ    1i8        1ts     226      220       7      208      298
Total operting revenue          672.06  572.66  572.68  670.47  e64.66  776.76  068.46  988.48
Total operating expense         842.06  862."6  876.97  408.44  422.67  568.98  579.61  606.18
Depoeciation                    109.s    99.71  1o0.66  lo.n   116.8   210.75  260.16  294.16
Inco  after deprction           121.2'  100.00   88.06  166.81  115.49   27.08  128.51   64.19
Interest charge                  8$6.52   88.90   61.04   71.04  121.04  161.04  212.64  212.64
Internal coah genration         155.45  142.85   108.71  267.08  281.05  287.76  408.67  $76.86
Grants                          487.02    0.00 8000.00 2200.00 1810.00 1800.00    0.00    0.00
Lons                              0.00   16.92  460.00  510.00  520.00  540.00    0.00    0.00
Debt service                     86.62    88.9   81.04   71.04  121.04  161.04  212.84  212.64
Debt service ratio                 8.2      2.0    6.24    8.76    1.92    1.48    1.90    1.70
In vesmnmt                        0.00    0.00 8600.00 2000.00 2200.00 1210.00    0.00    0.00
Operating fixed assets         2602.28 2677.89 2611.26 2060.02 8109.06 5784.67 0021.61 6822.69
S Debt to debt   equity           19.21   17.55   20.1X   40.75   58.65   61.05    50.6%   49.4X
boys acconft receivable            106       60      75       7        60      6o       so       s0



ANNEX 11
- 131 -                        Page 6
7. JEMBER
Population - 000                245.48  246.57  251.61  2f6.46  201.41  20O.S7  271.82  277.11
Pop. served - 000                58.o0  56s.08    5.08   68.08   02.99   92.99   62.99   64.90
X Pop. served                     21.63   21.65   21.1X   20.73   81.7T   81.23   80.63   80.73
Water connections - 000           9.20   10.20   10.60   10.60   10.95   12.80   12.o0  12.80
Employ*es/1000 connection           10       10       10      tO       10      10       tO       10
water consuapt (.8/mt/con)        20.4    20.4    20.4    20.8    19.8    19.6    19.6    19.6
Volume producd (thousand a8)    8878.1  4016.0  8ss8.6  8a66.8  40965.8   m870.6  as9.9  8s9.s
Volume Sold (thousand m         2602.1  2569.7  2689.7  2666.8  2926.6  226S.5  2625.5  2926.5
X Unaccounted for water            s55       55%     aso      45X      40X     se8      s8x    s88
Averag tariff (Rp/os)              824      822     a?2      416      89      897      610o    0tO
Total operating revenue         926.72  962.54  588.66  1141.16  1186.02 1101.42  1764.60  1764.56
Total operating expenses        498.14  581.06  549.88   596.44  741.16  770.58  860.42  666.61
Oepreciation                    468.66  467.61  400.61  871.40  181.95   119.66   180.05  180.65
Itcom  after depreciation       -21.21  -96.82 -116.256 171.8864 264.90985 271.2185 604.0865 72.195
Interet charge                  286.15  220.97  224.40  264.40  2U4.40  8S4.40  801.80  891.80
Internal cash generation        445.47  445.26  426.70  605.82  866.99  U46.52  616.86  566.42
Grants                            0.00    0.00  700.00  700.00 1100.00 1160.00    0.00    0.00
Loans                             0.00   16.76  410.00  450.00  550.00  460.00    0.00    0.00
Debt service                    285.15  229.9?   224.4   264.4   264.4   854.4   891.6   891.6
Debt service ratio                 1.9      1.9      1.9     2.8      1.8      1.0     1.6      1.5
Inv*Gments                        0.00    0.00  1600.00 1600.00 1600.00  570.00    0.00    0.00
Operating fixed *asse          4059.90 4996.09 604.56  7876.84 7744.11 6785.86  9172.14 9980.75
X Debt to debt + euity            74.03    74.43    761.901   7.6x    2.611   69.9    64.83    69.031
# Days accounts recevable          107       68      60       so       60      60       60       so
0. SUMENP
Population - 000                 62.89   68.49   64.40   65.80   66.21   07.12  6e.02   69.08
Pop. served - 000                18.67    18.67   18.07   18.67   18.07   22.26   22.26   22.71
3 Pop. served                     21.913   21.53   21.231   20.91   20.613   88.23    82.63   82.6X
Water connections - 000           8.80    8.80    8.80    8.80    8.80    4.46    4.46    4.69
Empl@yee/1M0  connection            19       19      19       19       19      17       17       17
Water consumpt. (mS/mt/con)       26.6    25.6    26.3    25.6    25.6    87.5    87.5    87.8
Volum  produced (thousand m8)    1626.0  1026.0  1626.0   I4.0  1651.0  2747.0  2707.0  2728.6
Volum  Sold (thousand M8)       1020.7  1020.7  1020.7  1020.7  1020.7  2004.6  2005.8  2052.1
X Unaccounted for water             50       503     503      553      t2X     873      863      8S3
Average tariff (Rp/n8)             206      240     270      820      4S0     450      460      450
Total operating revenue         212.81   244.97  276.69  826.62  459.82  602.07  902.89  928.45
Total operating expense         108.70  199.06   216.05  240.01  266.99  454.08   471.98  520.61
Depreciation                     89.62   52.08   55.98   59.10   62.20  126.56   196.70  208.46
Income after deprecletion         6."      2.98    2.96   28.91  108.28  820.86  286.67   199.45
Interet charges                   0.00    0.00    0.00   60.00  140.00  210.00  261.70  281.70
Internal cash gene-ation         48.01   58.28   56.94   60.01  170.43  447.44  480.46  402.94
Gran""                            0.00    0.00  600.00  560.00  680.00  600.00    0.00    0.00
Lons                              0.00   60.18  t20.00  010.00  610.00  790.00    0.00    0.00
Debt service                         0        0       0       60      140     210   291.7   261.7
Debt service ratio                  NA       MA      NA      1.4      1.2     2.1      1.5      1.4
Invesamnt                         0.00    0.00  750.00  600.00  700.00  650.00    0.00    0.00
Operating fixed assets         1646.19 1666.60 17865.2 1684.12 1976.8  5688.67 6126.85 6e41.62
X Debt to debt eq uity             0.03X    8.7    14.9%   51.23   65.73   61.63   59.03   66.9X
ODys Onyccounts receivable         109       84      64       84       76      67       67      65



AN!XEX 11
- 132 -                  Page 7
9. BAOUNG
Population - 000                 8s9.16   8".11   878.18  88o.0s8   87. 72  896.20  402.08   410.60
Pop. served - 000                186.41   148.18  156.68   162.26   177.99   18S.87   188.47   168.47
X Pop. served                      86.O0   40.71   42.01   42.71   46.91    47.01    40.61   46.91
Water connectlons - 000           19.88    19.67   20.68    21.70    28.98    25.11    26.60   26.60
Employees/1000 connection            19       19       18       17       16       16       14       14
Water con*umpt.(m8/mt/con)         44.4    46.8    49.1    14.6    81.6    64.1    66.0    66.0
Volume produced (thousand a8)    18402.4  14960.9  15882.8  18486.0  22660.2   24868  24884.7  24684.7
Volume Sold (thousand es)       10809.5  1128.8  12178.7  14226.9  17708.8  10927.7  19907.6  19907.6
% Unaccounted for water              8o0      8ox      8ox      8ox      29X      26       2 251    21a
Average tariff (Rp/aS)              861      875      80o      861      406      516     686      677
Totel operating revenue         8711.60 4429.07 4778.66  6832.98  8669.80 10807.68 10990.44 18006.78
Total operating *xpenses        2202.88  2494.61  2677.21 2669.66  8612.47  4656.14 4866.76  5268.81
oepreciation                    1200.87  1266.89  1466.88  1844.68  1206.67  1689.16  2161.65  2269.78
Income after depreciation         809.8  666.67  689.61  1118.65  8459.96  891S.68  8972.08  6252.69
Interest charge                    0.00    0.00  1268.46  1649.46  1969.46  2449.46  2682.16  2682.16
Internal cash generotion        1246.70  1881.61  2096.84  2408.07 2646.67  8165.68  6966.89 6148.86
Grant.                             0.00    0.00 4650.00 4100.00 2260.00            0    0.00    0.00
Loans                              4.66  664.24 2680.00 4060.00 6240.00 42M0.00    0.00    0.00
Debt service                          0        0  1299.48  1549.4  1989.46  2449.48  2682.16  2682.18
Debt service ratio                   NA       NA      1.6      1.6      1.8      1.8      2.1      2.2
- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- -  -- -- -----     -   - ----
Invesments                         0.00   268.90 7600.00 11110.00 6800.00 6110.00    0.00    0.00
Operating fixed asset.         19986.61 21882.17 22966.69 26176.02 48761.78 60182.48 68189.11 66296.06
X Debt te debt + equity            62.81   60.6%   60.61    71.8    72.81   71.2X   67.81   62.05
# ODys account. receivable           78       71       71       0o       so       0o      6o       6o
10. DULELENO
PopulOtion - 000                 127.26  129.27   182.61   186.00  187.61   140.89  148.26  145.75
Pop. served - 000                 62.86     68.2   64.06    64.94   68.60   75.06    76.42   80.11
X Pop. sorved                      41.1X   41.2X   40.8X   40.7X   49.6x   68.61    64.71   66.01
W.ter connections - 000            6.19    6.24      8.86    6.47   10.06    10.74    11.12   11.82
Employee/1000 cornnection            16       14       14       14       12       18       18      12
Wter consumpt. (m/mb/con)          86.6    86.7    86.6    85.6    $8.6    88.6           8.6    88.6
Volume produced (thousand e8)    4627.6  4967.0  4926.6  4967.1  6470.7  6678.4  5656.1  660o.8
Volum  Sold (thousand e8)        6497.1  8626.6  8668.2  8612.0  4079.8  4866.8  4609.1  4597.1
S Unaccounted for water              s8o      s86      881      881      841    8s0        2ex     261
Average terift (Rp/m&)              176      228      285      240     890      w88       8s8     669
Total operating revenue          647.07   607.61  8a9.58  s666e.   1690.98  1694.60  1749.68  2616.76
Total operatlng *xp  me          409.12  968.72   565.81   616.4  724.68  e62.92  86.46  992.01
Depreclasion                     220.40   282.79   241.90  287.16   262.90   284.40   260.61   274.09
Income after depreclation        -41.65     16.1  10 t.7    18.88  618.647 607.0162 698.6608 1849.049
Interest charges                   0.00    0.00    0.00   70.00   170 'W   210.00  272.70  272.70
Internel cash genration          176.65  284.76   282.82  215.09   a44.6e   628.72  954.67  1087.17
Grants                             0.00    0.00  200.00  180.oo        0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Loans                           1424.66  1740.46   620.00  1060.00  460.00  700.00    0.00       0.00
Debt service                          0        0        0       70      170      210   272.7   272.7
Debt service ratio                   NA       NA       NA      8.1      2.0      2.5      8.5     8.6
Invesments                      1424.96  1740.45   760.00  600.00  600.00  860 !J    0.00    0.00
Operating fixed as et.          8165.66  6056.14 5819.44  5697.61 6422.57  9680.06 10470.42 10968.94
X Debt to debt * equity             0.05     8.1X   28.11   40.01   50691    71.91   09.11   61.OX
Day accounte receivable             90       90       90       76       76       6o      60       60



ANNEX 11
- 133 -                   Page 8
11. KLUNWKUNG
Population - 000                 182.24   183.36   186.49  187.14   10U.82   140.61  142.22  148.90
Pop. served - 000                 80.41   80.41   80.41   80.41   81.8O   81.94   82.86    82.18
% Pop. served                      28.01   22.7X   22.43   22.21   22.53    22.73    22.8X   22.63
Water connections - 000            4.47    4.47    4.41    4.47    4.60         4.09    4.77    4.77
Employe/1000 connection              12       12       12       12       12       11       11      11
Woter consumpt.(m8/mt/con)         20.0    20.0    20.0    20.8    21.0    28.8    24.6    24.0
Volume produced (thousnd e8)    1609.6  1689.6  1600.6  1720.4   1728.4   1745.0  1704.9  1704.9
Volume Sold (thousand w8)        1072.4   1072.4  1072.4   1117.1  1205.2  1812.0   1411.9  1411.9
X Unaccounted for water              sex      sox      58%      U43      48X      881     253      26S
Average tariff (Rp/m8)              208      268      206      261      490     50e      618      676
Total operating revenue          201.66  847.16  847.15  857.38   077.85  670.42   788.47  068.04
Total operating expense          246.77  266.42  299.62  819.22  800.44   400.2  425.20  462.00
Depreciation                      71.20   75.79   79.68   81.66    91.09   109.76   116.09   122.06
Incom after depreciation         -86.49  -16.06       -82   -48.4  225.22  160.46   191.5  871.00
Interet charges                    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   60.00   70.00   00.20   00.20
Internal cash generation          84.62   60.76   47.67   86.50  244.75  221.28  240.07  876.98
Orants                             0.00     0.00  450.00  000.00  470.00  400.00  242.00    0.00
Loans                              0.00    0.00  270.00  270.00  290.00  140.00    0.00    0.00
Debt service                       0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   50.00    70.00    00.20   00.20
Debt service ratio                  ERR                        1.9      4.9      8.2      2.6      4.8
Inve_ nta                          0.00   22.60  050.00   000.00  100.00  460.00    0.00    0.00
Operating fixed assets          1821.10  1428.49  1510.01  1592.22 2286.10  2408.15  2641.00  2860.96
X Debt to debt  o equity            O.OX    O.OX    0.03    0.03    0.03    O.OX    O.3    0.03
- Days accounts receivble            75       75       76       75       75       so       so      6o
12. JEMBRANA
Populatlon - 000                  77.48   70.82   79.21   60.09   60.00    02.05   02.76   84.12
Pop. nerved - 000                 86.10    86.18    86.18   86.10 U   0.10    00.10    06.10   00.10
X Pop. served                      45.41   44.93   44.41   4.901   44.6l   44.03   48.61   42.90
Water connect1on  - 000            6.28    5.28    5.28    6.28    6.89    6.89    5.89          5.89
Employees/1000 connection            18       18       18       18       18       18       18      18
Water coneumpt.(m8/st/con)         15.4    18.4    16.4    15.4    17.6    20.4    28.0    28.0
Volume produced (theosnd a8)     1609.2  1609.4  1009.4  1609.4  1726.5  1000.0  1986.7  198U.7
Volume Sold (thoueand *8)         909.4   969.5   9069.5   969.   1161.2  1820.6  1406.?  1400.7
X Un#acounted for water               61      661      6o6      on1      sox      403      8ox     8o0
Averag tariff (Rp/m8)               254      259      426      460      460      480     450      460
total operating revnu            281.56   207.44  412.04  436.26   610.04   684.00   69.92  e69.92
Total operating expense          244.66  267.40  261.07  299.02  871.64  406.41    449.2  469.09
Depreciation                     114.80  116.75  127.16  182.56  184.78   170.66  170.40  167.40
Income after depreciation        -7t.8?  -00.77   8.6076   4.669   11.7"    10.87  42.286   18.425
Interest charge                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Internal cenh geration            87.10   20.18    6.00    52.06   26.87    42.28  216.51  206.15
Grants                             0.00    0.00  870.00 1000.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
L._                              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Debt service                       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Dbt servicer tlo                     NA       NA       NA       NA       NA       NA       MA      NA
Inves_ents                         0.00    0.00  870.00  100.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Operating fIxod assets          20s.01 2197.90 2840.70 2457.60 896.04  4178.79 4004.50  4608.01
1 Debt to debt + oqulty             O.OX    0.03      O.OX    0.03      0.03     0.03     0.03    0.03
bay account  receivable            190    1S        18O       97       76       60      60       so



ANNEX 11
-134 -                         Page 9
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA/BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Enterprise Financial Projections
Key Assumptions Used
Operating Income
1.        It is assumed that all water enterprises will maintain their
accounting records on a consistent basis and report accrual principles at
least annually.
2.        These assumptions refer to the financial projections consisting of
(a) income statement, (b) sources and applications of funds, (c) balance
sheet, and (d)financing plans for each water enterprise in the first batch of
the project. They have been applied in a standard format to afford a cross
reference of comparative financial analyses among PDAMs.
3.        Water Production.  The output of water in N4 from the existing
systems combined with the new capacity to be added under the project.
4.        Service Area Population.  The population served is determined by
multiplying an estimated number of persons served per each house connection
and standpipe respectively by the total connections in the system. It is
assumed that 6.5 persons per house connection and 100 persons per standpipe
are served.
5.        Number of Connections.  The project is expected to increase the
total number of house connections as well as standpipes in the 12 water
enterprises during the construction period 1990/1994.
6.        Water Consumption.  This is an indicator which measures average
consumption per month in N4 for every connected customer. Typically Bali
customers consume more water per connection than customers in East Java.
Average consumption in Dempasar is expected to increase from current level of
about 65 MP/connection to 65MP by 1995 at most connections are expected to be
for tourist hotels and related establishments. For Buleleng the consumption
is expected to remain in the range of 33-35 H'/connection, which is in line
with consumption rates in East Java in general.
7.        Volume (MP) Sold.  This is the volume of water billed, which is
lower than or equal to the maximum volume of water available for sale in a
given year.
8.        Unaccounted for Water (UFW).  The UFW varies widely among the water
enterprises, ranging currently from as high as 76? of production (Lamongan)
and as low as 252 (Banyuwangi). The forecasts assume that the UFW will be
reduced over time for each water enterprise, and for most of them, levels of
about 25-30? should be achieved.



ANNEX 11
- 135 -                         Page 10
9.        Tariffs.  All water enterprises are expected to adopt the NWRS, and
effective 1990, the following rates for each PDAM based on the first tariff
block of residential customers will be applied.
The Value of "A' Factor (RP/Lf*
(Current Prices)
1989     1990    1993      1996
1.  Mojokerto                              80       135     221       351
2.  Kediri                                125       157     2A,       298
3.  Lamongan                              150       200     389       450
4.  Probolinggo                            90       169     286       425
5.  Sidoardjo                             160       201     234       379
6.  Banyuwangi                             75        90      106      137
7.  Jember                               150        316     482       581
8.  Sumenep                               120       115      171      225
9.  Badung                                120       120     164       172
10.  Buleleng                              125       129     158       208
11.  Jembrana                              156       156     166       181
12.  KlungKung                             125       129     244       322
* A rate increase has been assumed every three years to maintain financial
soundness of the enterprises.  This is in line with the local governments
practice for authorizing periodic tariff increases.
10.    Water Revenues.  The main source of revenue will be water sales as
determined by meter readings as well as assessments, including sales through
standpipes. No specific charge is assumed for meter rental or maintenance
charges, administration charges or penalties for late payments which are
adopted by some of the existing enterprises.
11.    The connection fees vary, but are generally within the following ranges
Rp. 65,000 for residential, government and social customers, and Rp. 120,000
for commercial and industrial customers. This will be collected through the
billing system in equal monthly installments over five years without interest.
Operating Expenses
12.       Personnel.  Personnel expenses are based on detailed analysis of the
number of employees required to operate each PDAM. The number of employees
required to serve one thousand connections is expected to range from 10 to 17
for the 12 WEs in the first batch. Over all it is expected to average 13.
13.       Chemicals.  Cost of chemicals consist mainly of expenditures on
calcium hypochlorite for chlorinating water. They are base don the volume of
water produced, (and are assumed to follow the inflation rates given below?)



ANNEX 11
- 136 -                        Page 11
14.       Power.  This represents expenditures on purchased electric power or
estimated cost of generated power with standby units. Power expense estimates
are based on the volume of water produced and are assumed to follow the
inflation rates.
15.       Repairs and Maintenance.  These are expressed as a percentage of
capital costs or on a lump sum basis for each kind of asset to be maintained.
These are shown under the account 'Materials" in the Itncome Statement.
16.       Transportation Costs.  These represent the costs of operating and
maintaining transportation equipment including fuel, servicing, annual
registratior and insurance. Various rates are assumed for each kind of
transportation and are assumed to follow the inflation rates?
17.       Administration and General.  These represent office running expenses
such as the cost of office supplies, and other general administration costs
and are based on the number of total personnel. Annual cost estimates are
assumed to follow the inflation rates.
18.       Bad Debts.  These are the portion of billed water sales which are
assumed to the noncollectible. They are estimated to be 8 percent of water
salc-. Given relatively small size of most of the PDAMs, it should be
possib- to control the bad debts within the assumed rate.
19.       Depreciation Expenses.  Depreciation expense is calculated using a
straight line method based on the economic lives of the assets as booked in
the balance sheet. The rates used vary broadly between civil works and
equipment: 30-50 years (2-3.3 percent per annum) of economic life for civil
works and 10-30 years (3.3-10 percent per annum) for equipment.
20.       Interest Charges.  Interest on the loan during construction will be
accrued and become payable to MOF-DDI.
21.       Income Tax.  The financial projections are prepared using tariff
revenues to recover operating costs including depreciation and interest on
loans. Income from operations after these deductions is subject to GI
taxation. Income tax due to GI is computed on the basis of the following
marginal tax rate structure:
Net Income                   Tax Rate
First Rp 10 Million            15Z
Next Rp 40 Million             252
In Excess Rp 50 Million        35Z
22.       Local Government Share of Income.  PDAMs routinely contribute 55
percent of their after tax income to local governments. The projections
assume that no such contributions would be made during the construction
period.



ANNEX 11
- 137 -                     Page 12
23.       Inflation Rates.  The assumed rates of inflation for local costs are
7.0 percent for 1990 and 5 percent thereafter. The estimated foreign
inflation is 7.2 percent for 1990 and 4.4 percent thereafter. These
assumptions agreed with Bank preparation mission during 1989 and have been
used as a consistent basis for analysis since that time.
Funds Flow and Balance Sheet
24.       Fixed Assets.  The value of fixed assets is based on the capital
costs expected to be incurred during the construction period and the existing
facilities. They include capital expenditures on the equipment, civil works,
engineering and supervision service, land, etc. The values of fixed assets of
existing water works were furnished by each water enterprise. Fixed assets
are revalued using the local inflation rates to determine current values.
25.       Work in Progress.  This includes all ongoing construction projects
whose assets have not been transferred to the assets have not been transferred
to the assets in operation category.
26.       Accounts Receivable.  These are projected at about two months of
total water sales. Accounts receivable in existing water enterprises range
from 4 to 5 months.
27.       Inventories.  These are computee on the basis of 6 months
requirement for chemical materials and sl *plies for maintenance.
28.       Accounts Payable.  This was projected to be equal to 2 months
operating expenses (excluding personnel cost and bad debts).
29.       Loan Funding.  This account represents the foreign component of the
project funding which is assumed to be channelled to a WE through the DLAs by
MOF.  The terms and conditions of DLA loans are explained in para.5.liof the
main report.
30.       Equity.  The equity account represents the local Government
counterpart funds in the project costs, Operating Subsidies, if any,
revaluation surplus arising from revaluation of assets, and accumulated income
or loss from operations.



- 138 -
ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA-BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Government Financial Proiections:
Sumuarv of Past Performance and Future Targets
Annual Average Growth Rates at Constant Prices
East Java Batch I Local Governments
Performance 1983/84 to 1987188    Targets 1989190 to 1994195
Local       Property    Total   Local        Property   Total
Revenues      Tax                Revenues      Tax
Z p.a.      2 p.a.     2 g.a.   Z p.a.      Z j .a.    Z *.a.
Kabuoatens
Banyuwangi            2.7        -1.3        0.2       3.1         3.9       3.5
Jember                2.5         8.0        5.8      11.7         1.5       7.7
Lamongan              8.5         3.2        6.3       5.3        16.9       9.4
Sumenep              1.5         14.1        7.3       4.6       17.2       14.2
Sidoarjo            17.0         -2.1       9.8        3.3         7.4       5.2
Sub-total          8.0          3.4       5.6        6.2        8.5        7.3
Kotamadyas
Kediri               18.6         0.8      10.6       11.7         1.5       7.7
Wojokerto             4.2        14.4       5S9        3.7        10.4       5.5
Pasuruan            22.0         10.7      20.4        2.8         7.8       3.5
Probolinggo          29.8        15.0      26.9        4.9       21.3        7.8
Sub-total        17.5          5.9      14.4        8.2        4.5        7.0
Total Batch I        10.4         3.6        7.2       6.9         7.6       7.2
Bali Batch I Local Governments
Performance 1983/84 to 1988189         Tarnets 1989190 to 1994/95
Local Local Other Property Total Local Local Other Property Total
Taxes Charges Fees    Tax            Taxes Charges Fees    Tax
Zo.a. Z 0.a. Zp.a. 2 p.a. 2L.a.  gz.a. 2 v.a. &,.a. 2. a.  PD.a.
Badung      15.1   -3.6  171.3    1.9   13.0   12.0   23.9   14.4    17.4  14.2
Wulileng    32.5    8.0    6.6    4.4    7.9   18.6   17.3    0.2    17.4  16.8
Jembrana     3.4    9.5   18.8   -6.6    0.7    6.2    6.1    5.4        5.2   5.5
Klungkung   31.6   17.8   38.7    1.4   14.1   19.7    7.6    9.9    15.6  11.0
Total
Batch I     15.4    0.7   73.7    4.8  .12.0   12.2   20.4   11.9    16.3  14.1



ANNEX 13
- 139                             Page 1
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA-BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operations and Maintenance of Urban Infrastructure and Services
1.        Key facets of the agreed approach to strengthening operations and
maintenance (O&M) activities for infrastructure and services covered by the
EJBUDP expenditure programs in each local government include: (a) Estiwetes
of required O&M expenditures (by subsector); (b) Analysis of current
capabilities for O&M; (c) Installation of PO!MS in Batch I local governmentst
(d) PMDU strengthening for water enterprise O&M improvement; (e) Development
of provincial public works capacity to assist O&M; (f) Development of annual
O&M programs (with appropriote links to LIDAP and RIAP documents (g) Revision
of Local O&M budgets and financing (MHA-KEPMIN No. ./1990); and
(h) Recommended monitoring and supervision indicators.
Estimates of Required O&M Expenditures (by sub-sector)
2.        Project preparation efforts for O&M elements in each subsector began
with the development of technical memoranda describing unit costs for O&M
activities for existing and new infrastructure. Preliminary inventories of
existing infrastructure, the functional classification of these systems to
assign O&M responsibilities among central, provincial and local government
units, and estimation of current conditions and deferred maintenance needs
were all undertaken in the initial preparation stages. Four subsectors (of
the seven covered by IUIDP guidelines) emerged as the focal points of O&M
efforts: water supply, roads, drainage and solid waste. Within the
sanitation subsector, the pumping of septic tanks and disposal of sludge (by
public or private operators) is the principal O&M issue. On-site sanitation
is the preferred approach in almost all localities (except for Badung
Kabupaten in Bali, where detailed studies for sewerage systems including O&M
requirements are now underway). For KIP/MIIP subsectors O&M is generally
presumed to be a "community" responsibility, though care must be taken to
ensure that provision is made for operating water taps, public toilets (MCK)
and other KIP/MIIP facilities, and to confirm that local governments will
assist in establishing "merchants' associations' or provide other specific
arrangements for MIIP O&M.
Analysis of Current Capabilities for O&M
3.        The estimated requirements for O&M (from paragraph 1 above) were
then compared to current O&M practices and capacities in four basic respects:
(a) manpower available with the responsible agency (as part of LIDAP
discussions); (b) budget le,vels provided for O&M activities during past five-
year period; (c) equipment and facilities available versus needs; and (d)
preliminary identification of the potential for contracting O&M activities in
each subsector.
4.        For the Batch I local governments this analysis may be summarized as
follows:



ANNEX 13
- 140 -                          Page 2
(a) for subsectors other than water supply, the local governments were
generally providing between 20S and 402 of the estimated O&0
requirements, and had substantially impaired capabilities due to
shortage of trained manpower, adequate equipment and spare parts,
etc.;
(b) water supply enterprises were highly variable in their O&M
performance, but generally provided 502 to 80S of needed O&M for
their systems, with inability to raise tariffs levels and shortage
of trained manpower cited as the key obstacles; and
(c) most local governments had not seriously explored the option of
contracting for O&M, as GOl regulations prohibit contracting from
the "routine" component of GOI budgets (as opposed to the
"development' component from which contracts are normally financed).
However, a few local governments were contracting road maintenance
and some were wiliing to consider solid waste collection on a
"franchise' basis covering designated urban communities (typically
upper income areas), following the success experienced by the City
of Surabaya with this approach. Drainage channel cleaning was
another area of O&M discussed for potential contracting, with a
mixed response by Batch I local governments.
S.        The analysis resulted in the definition of current levels of 0&K
expenditure for each Batch I local government ('current O0M1 in the
expenditure program), and two types of proposed additions or Oincremental:
001 expendituress (a) a graduated increase of O&M budget to reach estimated
requirements for current infrastructure systems and (b) O&M expenses necessary
for newly constructed and rehabilitated facilities. Responsibility for
budgeting the required O& expenditure was assigned based on the functional
classification of facilities (particularly for roads and drainage) between
central, provincial and local governments. However, both central (especially
DGBM) and provincial agencies frequently arrange for lower levz. units to
execute O& budgets, and execution responsibilities for budget allocations in
these cases must be agreed annually.
Installation of PONMS in Batch I Local Governments
6.        The Performance-Oriented Maintenance Management System (PONMS) was
originally developed with Bank assistance for the Urban V project cities; USL
assistance was used to refine and extend POMMS to additional cities (eight are
now covered) and develop improved local government budgeting procedures
associated with PONMS implementation. Denpasar, Bali, is the only EJBUDP
local government included among the initial POMNS cities, although Surabaya
(an Urban V city) may also serve as an instructive example for the smaller
East Java local governments.
Further progress in fully developing the POMMS approach as an O&0
programming and management technique for all non-water supply infrastructure
has recently taken two major steps forward:
(a) The USL and Urban V project supported a 'simplified" version of
PONMS for application in medium-to-small urban areas, simplifying



ANNEX 13
-141-                              Page 3
inventory procedures and applying uniform performance standards,
rather than the case-by-case methods used in the large cities.
(b)  The Minister of Home Affairs in January, 1990, issued a Decree
(KEPMIN No. 5/1990) instructing the full implementation of POMS in
the eight pilot cities and the preparation of budget documents in
revised formats which explicitly identify O&M expenditures for the
first time in Indonesia.  The KEPMIN also commends the POMMS
approach for consideration by other local governments and provides
guidelines for its implementation and associated budgeting
procedures.
7.        The  proposed project would install the simplified version of POMHS
in all 13 Batch I local governments (extending the Denpasar system to include
all areas of Kabupaten Badung), and utilize these local government systems as
training opportunities for officials of Batch II and III local governments and
provincial officials.
4. PMDU Strengthening for Water Enterprise 0&M Improvement
Within the water supply subsector, not covered by POMKS, the focal
point of GOI-Bank efforts to improve water enterprise O&H has been the
Provincial Monitoring and Development Unit (PMDU) established with assistance
under the Second East Java Water Supply Project, USL and Dutch bilateral aid
in East Java and was only recently initiated on a part-time basis in Bali.
The PMDUs are established within the provincial public works departments
(DPUPs) with responsibility to monitor the full range of water supply service
provision by all local enterprises, with particular attention to those in
transition from the status of BPAM. The PMDU will assist each enterprise in
evaluating staffing, training and other strengthening requirements (e.g.,
budgeting procedures, chemical and supplies management, etc.) to improve
operational effectiveness and efficiency. The PMDU is also charged with
assisting PDAM units with calculation and justification of appropriate user
tariffs to assure adequate financing of system operations and orderly
expansion, and to assist in making appropriate arrangements for operation of
public water taps in low-income areas (e.g., under the KIP program) which has
been typically troublesome for many enterprises. PMDU also serves to
coordinate local staff participation in training programs for operational and
management personnel of the water enterprises. The proposed project includes
consultant assistance to strengthen the capacity of both PMDU units to perform
these central activities during the EJBUDP implementation periods with special
attention to assisting the conversion of the final group of BPAM units to PDAM
status.
Development of Provincial Public Works Capacity to Assist O&M Programs
8.        The DPUPs in both provinces have relatively complete staffs and in
branch offices (cabang dinas) in each local government. The increasing role
of local governments in implementing infrastructure programs, and the
announced intention of the Ministry of Public Works to second substantial
numbers of their current staff for provincial service, creates an opportunity
to revise and strengthen the role of the DPUP in assisting local government
OWM program development. The heads of both DPUP units have agreed to assign



- 142 -                          age  13
Page 4
members of the branch-office staff to receive training in POMNS and PMDU O&M
procedures, to create the capacity to support local governments in preparing
and executing O&H activities. As DGBM has already established a provincial
roads maintenance advisory unit in both provinces (functionally analogous to
the PMDU for water supply), the primary need in both provlnces is to
strengthen the O&M management assistance capacity for the PLP sub-sectors
(i.e., drainage, solid waste management and sanitation). DGCK has agreed to
assist both provinces in the creation of this capacity. Specification of
future O&M requirements is also integral component of all sub-project designs
prepared under the IUIDP guidelines; thus, the DPUP Advisory Team (described
in ANNEX 3) will have the additional responsibility to advise the DPUPs
regarding the development of appropriate O&M enterprise with the assistance of
the training provided by the PONMS installation team.
Development of Annual O&M Programs for Each Local Government
9.        The preceding activities are necessary preparatcry steps to provide
local governments with the background and resources to develop annual O&M
programs covering all infrastructure subsectors, within the constraints of
current manpower and budget resources. The provincial DPUPs and PMDUs would
assist the local governments to prepare annual O&M programs, and to monitor
and support their execution. The POMMS consultants would review and assist
DPUP to establish the format and procedures for preparation and monitoring of
the annual programs. One of the most significant aspects of this initiative
would be the opportunity to discuss the manpower and financial planning for
O&M ii each subsector with every active local government in the program.
10.       Shortages of trained manpower will create opportunities to discuss
contract O&M schemes with the local governments. The recent revision of
INPRES Dati II (block grant) regulations to allow up to 25 percent of these
transfers to be used for maintenance and rehabilitation contracts should also
provide flexibility in constructing the annual programs. The linkages with
LIDAP and RIAP plans to increase local manpower and revenue will also be
specifically discussed in this annual review to assure consistency and improve
local government management of the O&M agenda.
Revision of Local Government O&M Budget Procedures
11.       Within the context of the above-noted MHA XEPMIN No. 511990 (see
para. No. 3) the framework has been proposed for a revised format and
classification of local government annual budgets. The instruction requires
the eight pilot local governments (and encourages other) to prepare "parallel'
budgets in addition to 'basic" (traditional)local budget. This new parallel
budget has three major categoriess (a) administrative overhead (salaries,
administration, etc.); (b) O&M of public facilities and service systems; and
(c) development projects (including design and supervision overheads).
12.       This structure represents a major step in making O&H budgeting
transparent and monitorable, as opposed to the current general 'routine"
category (combining la' and lb" above) in which line items contain a mixture
of funds and functions. MHA/PUOD staff indicate that it is the intention of
GOI to convert the entire local government budget system to this new format
after a period of parallel operation. The EJBUDP assistance for municipal



ANNEX 13
-143 -                           Page S
financial managcment would assist in this parallel budgeting and accounting in
at least the Batch I local governments and provide appropriate formats and
instructions for use by other local governments with the guidance of
provincial SEKWILDA.
O&M Monitoring Indicators
13.       Monitoring indicators would include the followings
(a) preparation of annual maintenance program and budget per MHA Kepmin
No. 5/1990;
(b) actual O&M expenditures per subsector versus target in expenditure
program;
(c) installation of POIMMS (in Batch I only) - Portion of O&M
expenditures based on POMMS;
(d) level of deferred maintenance and rehabilitation contracts
Expenditures vs Level of Routine O&M Expenditures;
(e) portion of routine O&M performed under contracts (by subsector); and
(f) increase in O&M expenditures (total) compared to increase in TK II
PADS.



- 144 -                      ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA - BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sanmle Infrastructure Exvenditure Programs 1/
1.        Programmes for urban infrastructure development emphasize
Improviment of service levels, through rehabilitation of existing sysetems and
improvement of operation and maintenance, with new works receiving less
priority.
A.  Expenditure Proarame for Kabuiaten Baduna (Bali)
2.        Water SupplY.  (a) DonDasar and Kuta.  The five-year expenditure
programe includes:
-    2 intake pumps at Tukad Ayung rated at 165 l/sec at 65 m head;
-    treatment works at Tukad Ayung incorporating flocculation,
sedimentation and filtration at a capacity of 300 llsec;
-    rehabilitation of 1 borehole in north Denpasar wellfield;
-    one borehole in the south Denpasar wellfield including
chlorination;
-    1500 m3 reservoir at Jimbaran;
-    2 booster pump stations;
-    distribution pipework;
-    leakage 5atection and control; and
-    approximately 3,800 new connections.
Part of these works (the treatment works). part of the distribution works, and
one of the booster pump stations must be =aplemented early to meet the
estimated 1991/92 demands. The projected water demands are based on results
of household surveys and th-e projected growth in hotel demand requiring a
source capacity of 1,129 1/sec by 1995.
3.        The increase in demand would be met by duplicating the existing
treatment works at the Tukad Ayung (Tukad Ayung It) by increasing the supply
from the river from 300 liters/sec to 600 liters/sec. Rehabilitation is also
proposed for the north Denpasar wellfield so that the total supply from the
wellfield is increased to 404 liters/sec. An additional borehole in Panjer
desa in the South Denpasar wellfield has already been drilled and this will
raise the production capacity of this wellfield to about 142 liters/sec. Thus
the total production capacity in 1995 will be about 1,146 liters/sec. which
would be sufficient to meet the estimated peak day demands to just beyond
1995. Additional source works will be required to meet peak day demands
beyond 1995. The 1995 population served at house connections is estimated to
be 44 percent and at standpipes about 3 percent. Non-domestic demand of small
users is estimated to remain at about 20 percent of domestic demand.
1/   Abstracts from *mini  appraisal reports prepared during the appraisal
mission.



- 145 -                          ANNEX 14
Page 2
Non-domestic demand of large consumers, including hotels, is projected to
increase from 92 liters/sec to about 270 liters/sec by 1995 and assumes that
all hotels will be supplied by 1995. Losses are projected to reduce to 25
percent of demand in 1995. This will be achieved through a leakage detection
and repair programme.
(b)  Mentwi. Abiansemal, Petana and Sanseh
4.        The five year expenditure program for these four towns includes:
-    1 spring capture chamber;
-    6 boreholes and pumping equipment;
-    3 chlorination facilities (Abiansemal and Sangeh combined)
-    transmission and distribution pipework;
-    4 ground reservoirs;
-    1 forwarding pump station; and
-    approximately 3600 new connections.
The financial projections for the water enterprises indicate that these works
could be financed by the water enterprises' own funds. The projected water
demands are based on results of household surveys.
5.        Drainage.  The proposed prograume mainly consists of rehabilitation
works and lining of the existing secondary and tertiary drainage systems.
Priority would be given to town areas frequently subject to flooding, often
caused by insufficient hydraulic capacities of some channel sections or
culverts. The prograsue for Denpasar is based on the existing drainage
masterplan whereas for Kuta and Mengwi plans would be prepared. Works of any
permanent nature on drainage systems would only be undertaken after a drainage
masterplan has been prepared.  For Kabupaten Badung the programme comprises
-    dredging and cleaning of 3,100 m of channels;
-    lining and repairing of 32,400 a open and closed channels;
-    6,320 m extension of  existing channels; and
-    purchase of 9 dumptrucks, 3 pickup trucks and 13 handcarts.
6.        Urban Roads.  The highest priority in the road programme is given to
the rehabilitation and the betterment works. Other priorities are road
widening and sidewalks often in combination with road drainage. Traffic
management analyses have been done for all new works. New works consist of a
ringroad in Denpasar, a bypass road in Kuta, parking facilities and
streetlighting. The programme for Badung comprises:
-    improvement (betterment, rehabilitation, and widening) of
170,000 m2 artery roads;
-    improvement (betterment, rehabilitation and widening) of 83,000
m2 of collector roads;
-    35000 m2 of new artery roads, 10,000 m2 parking facilities,
32,000 m2 side walks and 24,000 m streetlighting;
-    improvement of road surface of 369,000 m2 local roads and
450,000 m2 overlay; and
-    equipment for maintenance of roads consists of 1 dumptruck, 2
rollers and various other equipment.



- U6 -                ~~~~ANNEX 14
- 146 -                         Page 3
7.        Solid Waste Management.  The proposed works are based on population
densities following national guidelines and household surveys to assess
effective (real) demand. They include public facilities and domestic waste
collection and consist of the provision of waste collection trucks and the
construction and modification of new and existing transfer depots in the towns
of Denpasar, Kuta and Mengwi. Also included are civil works for a final
disposal site such as an access road, fencing, leachate treatment works and
sub-soil drainage to serve the town of Denpasar including the Sanur tourist
area and the town of Kuta. To increase efficiency of the door-to-door
collection system in areas accessible for trucks it is proposed to purchase 40
liter garbage bins. In areas not accessible for trucks, solid waste would be
collected in handcarts.   All market areas and business centres will be served
by containers and armroll trucks. The programme comprises the following for
the three towns in the kabupaten Badung:
-    10 container trucks and 13 dumptrucks;
-    95 containers;
-    1 bulldozers
-    1 mini excavator;
-    185 handcarts;
- -workshops and transfer stations;
40 and 120 liter garbage bins; and
-    a final disposal site.
8.        Human Waste DisDosal.  The programme consists of upgrading of on-
site sanitatior- systems. In addition to single on-site facilities, new multi-
family facilities are proposed in those areas with high ground water tables.
These facilities will reduce the number of soak pits, especially in those
areas where shallow wells are used for drinking water. This program consists
of providing one septic tank for five households. The programme also includes
a public promotion campaign. Part of the multi-family facilities will be
constructed under the KIP programme.  'he human waste programme for the towns
of Denpasar, Kuta and Mengwi in the kabupaten Badung comprises:
-    17,500 single family on-site substructures;
-    1,400 combined septic tanks for five families;
-    3,400 latrines/leachate pit facilities;
-    1 desludging truck complete with tank and pumping installation;
and
-    one final sludge disposal site of 4.3 hectares.
9.        Kamoung ImDrovement Progarm (KIP).  The programw  proposals include
micro drainage, access roads and footpaths in 594 hectt.es in the five year
planning period in the three towns.
10.       Market Improvement Prosram (MIIP).  The programme covers three
markets in Denpasar only, with a total area of 20 hectares and provides for
drainage, access roads and handcarts for garbage collection.



-147-                            ANNEX 14
Page 4
SPENDITURE PRGAM FOR KAOUPAtO POli
(Rp SIl 11n)
Baee Cost PY90/91 PY91/02 fP92/08 P793/94 FY94/9S Total
Jan 800   Coat   Coats   Co      Coot    Coats   Costs
Prise
WATER SUPPLY ENTERPRISE
Investment                      19.92    2.89    4.48    7.3    4*.65    o.n    19.0
Overhead a Engineering cos       8.90    0.65    0.74    0.58    0.81    1.71    8.94
Sub-totl                       28.7    8.4    5.17    7.8    4.         2.42   28.7
06M                             11.8?    2.01    2.05    2.14    2.08    8.01   11.67
Sub-total base cost            8.74    6.U5    .22   10.02    7.62    8.48    8.7
Physical Contingenles            0.00    0.35    0.51    0.78    0.48    0.24    2.88
Price Contingencies              0.00    0.42    0.094    1.$$    1.34    1.66    6.72
Sub-totai Vater Supply and CiM    85.74    6.82    6.67   12.66    9.04    7.88   44.62
LOCAL  VERN ENT RASTRUCTURE
Dratnage                         4.08    0.81    0.61    0.0     0.0    0.04    4.50
Solid Waste lanagment            2.17    0.74    0.18    0.57    0.68    0.42    2.89
Sanltation                       5.29    0.86    1.90    1.64    0.6     0.90    5.82
Urban Roads                     16.47    8.76    2.72    2.82    1.86    8.57   16.7
Kamung Impotvement               2.08    0.47    0.58    0.sa    0.60    0.14    2.29
Marke" Infrastrucure Iprovnt   0.07    0.04    0.02    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.06
overhead  Englering costs        8.48    0.94    0.76    0.76    0.66    0.78    8.79
Sub-totl                       82.04    0.14    6.07    7.84    5.48    6.76   8.64
088                              7.82    1.64    1.80    1.54    1.,t    1.70    7.80
Sub-total be" cost             40.16   10.0 S   8.47 .8.        7.04     .46   48.88
Physical Contingenle             0.00    0.02    0.60    0.02    0.48    0.60    2.92
Price Contingencies              0.00    0.80    1.11    1.67    1.75    2.68    7.90
Sub-total Local Govt Intf ra 0A8   40.1I   12.10   10.18   11.17    9.27   11.09   64.41
Total Expenditure Pr"rm (RV bh)  78.90   10.42   10.88   28.83   19.11   19.02   99.23
Total Expenditure Proram (8 .)    42.28   10.26   10.80   18.28   10.68   10.40   85.20
11.        Cost Estimates.  The five year (1990191 - 1994/95) expenditure
programue is estimated at Rp 44.8 billion in current prices. The expenditure
programs broken down by foreign and local coats including project overheads,
engineering costs, physical and price contingencies.
B. Ezvenditure Programme for Kotamadya Probolinggo (East Java)
12.        Water SuSly.  The expenditure programme comprises the following
worksz



ANNEX 14
- 148 -                           Page S
-    leakage detection and control;
-    Extension of the distribution system;
-    1,330 new connections; and
-    replacement of existing pumps.
?he leakage programme would include repair or replacement of production
meters, an improved assessment of losses, purchase of leak detection
equipment, surveys and repairs as necessary.
13.       The distribution system will be extended to the western areas of the
town, in which there are new housing developments and industry. An extension
to a housing estate in the south of the town is also proposed subject to the
developer funding tertiary distribution network.
14.       The existing pumps at the spring source will be 12 years old by
1994, and are estimated to be nearing the end of their useful life. One is
broken down and one is said to be operating below the rated output. They are
also incorrectly rated for head and consequently operate inefficiently. They
would be replaced by units with a lower head rating. The previously proposed
construction of the new water tower has been deferred until after 1995. The
capacity of the system is 150 l/sec and thus the pumps will be able to meet
the peak hour demand. Further increases In demand after 1995 will necessitate
the addition of balancing storage in the town.
15.       The proposals developed on the basis of the results of the real
demand survey, have been reduced to give a financing plan affordable to the
PDhM with acceptable tariff increases. It concentrates on areas given
priority by the local government and with a high percentage of real demand
survey respondents interested in a supply.
16.       Drainage.  The proposed programme mainly consists of rehabilitation
works and lining of the existing secondary and tertiary drainage systems.
Special attention is given to town areas frequently subject to flooding, often
caused by insufficient hydraulic capacities of some channel sections or
culverts. The programme for Rotamadya Probolinggo is based on the existing
drainage masterplan. The programme comprises oft
-    dredging and cleaning of 19,220 m2 of channels;
-    lining and repairing of 5,727 m2 open and closed channels; and
-    purchase of 2 dumptrucks, 1 pickup truck and 2 handcarts.
17.       Urban Roads.  The highest priority in the programme is
rehabilitation and betterment works. Other priorities are road widening,
while new works consist of streetlighting and sidewalks often in combination
with road drainage. The programme for Probolinggo comprises:
-    improvement (betterment, rehabilitation, and widening) of
136,855 m2 artery roads;
-    improvement (betterment, rehabilitation and widening) of
123,565 m2 of collector roads;
-    6,000 m2 sidewalks and 10,750 ml streetlighting;
-    improvement of road surface of 27,500 m2 local roads; and



- 149-                       '   ANNEX 14
Page 6
equipment for maintenance of roads consisting of 1 dumptruck, 2
rollers and 1 HRS maintenance set.
18.       Solid Waste Management.  The proposed service levels are based on
population densities following national guidelines. They include public
facilities, domestic waste collection, provision of waste collection trucks
and the construction of ew transfer depots. Also included are civil works
for a final disposal site such as an access road, fencing, leachate treatment
works and sub-soil drainage. To increase efficiency of the door to door
collection system in areas accesible for trucks it is proposed to purchase 40
liter garbage bins. In areas not accessible for trucks solid waste would be
collected in handcarts. All market areas and business centres will be served
by containers and armroll trucks. The prograime comprises the following:
-    2 transfer depots and 54 transfer stations (TPSs);
-    200 m2 workshop and tools;
-    300 m access road of disposal site;
_    65 refuse bins;
_    19 handcarts;
-    6 dump trucks and 1 unit armroll truck; and
-    1 bulldozer.
19.       fuman Waste Disposal ManaRement.  The programme comprises of
upgrading of on-site sanitation systems. In addition to single on site
facilities, new multi-family facilities are.proposed in those areas with high
ground water tables. These facilities will reduce the number of soak pits
especially in those areas where shallow wells are used for drinking water.
The programme consists of providing one septic tank for five households. The
programs also includes a public promotion campaign (for 7,370 households).
20.       Part of the multi-family facilities and MCK will be constructed
under the RIP programme. The human waste programse for Probolinggo comprisess
-    58 combined septic tanks for five families each;
-    525 latrines/leachate pit facilities;
-    one final sludge disposal site of 2,500 m2 provided with 3;
centrifugal pumps and 910 metre length of pipelines;
-    rehabilitation of 2 existing MCXs; and
-    single family on-site substructure.
21.        amWung Imrovement Programme (KIP).  The programme includes
improvement of micro drainage, access roads and footpaths in 25 hectares new
RIP areas and rehabilitation of facilities in 75.5 hectares existing RIP areas
during the five year planning period.
22.       Market Improvement Programme tMIIP).  The programme covers two
markets in Kotamadya Probolinggo with a total area of 8 hectares and provides
for cleaning of existing drains (260 m3), 17 handcarts for garbage collection,
5 temporary disposal sites (TPSs) and 2 public standpipes.
23.       Cost Estimates.  The five year (1990191 - 1994/95) expenditure
programme is estimated at Rp 14.74 billion in current prices. The



-150 -                                 ANNEX 14
Page 7
expenditures broken down by foreign and local costs, project overheads,
engineering costs, physical and price contingencies.
EXPENDITURE PRPGRAM FOR KOTAMAOYA PROSU0NOGO
(RD bilion)
ea". cost
Jan '90  FY9O/Ol FY91/92 FY92/98 FY93/94 FY94/95 TOt I
Prices   Costs   Coot    CoSt    Costa   Coat   Costa
WATER SUPPLY ENTERPRISE
Investment                         11.59    0.02    0.50    0.44    0.81    0.00    1.27
Overhed and Engineering costa       0.16    0.06    0.04    0.08    0.02    0.00    0.17
Sub-total                         11.75    0.10    0.64    0.47    0.88    0.00    1.44
0Du                                 1.13    0.19    0.21    0.21    0.26    0.20    1.17
Sub-total base cost              12.93    0.29    0.76      0.66    0.61    0.29    2.61
Physical Conttngnctoe               0.00    0.01    0.06    0.05    0.08    0.00    0.14
Price Contngeneles                  0.00    0.02    0.10    0.18    0.15    0.08    0.48
Sub-total Water Supply            12.93    0.82    0.90    0.66    0.79    0.86    8.28
LOCAL GOVERNMT INFRASTRUCTU
Drtinage                            0.41    0.09    0.06    0.06    0.07    0.18    0.48
Solid Wa te Manae ment              0.88    0.12    0.07    0.19    0.04    0.00    0.42
Sanitation                          0.14    0.01    0.02    0.05    0.08    0.04    0.15
Urban Radst                         4.86    8.09    0.88    0.83    0.48    0.51    5.84
Kaapung Iprovement                  0.86    0.09    0.08    0.06    0.06    0.07    0.88
Market Intrastructure Improvement    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01
Sub-total                          6.15    8.41    1.11    0.78    0.65    0.77    8.70
Overhoad and Engineering Costs      0.76    0.42    0.18    0.09    0.09    0.10    0.83
Sub-total                          6.91    8.88    1.24    0.86    0.74    0.7    7.68
CAM                                 1.82    0.38    0.81    0.40    0.42    0.48    1.98
-;- --- ---
Sub-total base cost                7.97    4.16    1.69    1.26    1.186   1.80    9.46
Physical Contingencis               0.00    0.81    0.10    0.06    0.06    0.07    0.60
Price Contingencies                 0.00    0.29    0.19    0.22    0.26    0.86        1.84
Sub total Local Govt Infra. A 0*M   7.97    4.76    1.68    1.68    1.50    1.78   11.40
Total Expenditure Program (Rp bn)   20.90    6.06    2.76    2.89    2.29    2.09   14.68
Total Expendture Program (1 a)     11.64    2.83    1.56    1.88    1.26    1.16    6.15
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



ANNEX 15
-151 -Pg 
INDONESIA
East-Java Bali Urban Development Project
Environmental Assessment and Management
1.        The Indonesian Environmental Assessment Regulation (Government
Regulation t29/1986), known locally as AMDAL identifies which types of
activities require preparation of environmental assessments (EAs); makes
project approvals contingent on approval of an environmental management plan
and environmental monitoring plan that incorporate findings of the EA; directs
Ministers and provincial governors to establish an Environmental Review
Commission in their respective ministry or province; establishes a time limit
within which the Minister or Governor must act upon environmental assessments
submitted for Commission review; and requires public notification and
participation in review of environmental assessments.
2.        Under the Environmental Assessment Regulation, if a project
involves potentially adverse environmental impacts, the sponsor or proponent
for each project must prepares i) a preliminary environmental assessment
(ANDAL/Analisis Dampak Lingkungan); ii) an environmental management plan
(RKL/Rencana Pengelolaan Lingkungan) and iii) an impact monitoring plan
(tRPL/Rencana Pemantauan Lingkungan). In the case of public works projects,
the proponent is normally a government or parastatal public works agency, such
as DG Cipta Rarya, a provincial or district public works agency, or a water
supply agency (PDAM or BPAM).
3.        National-level review of EAs for public works projects is the
responsibility of the Environmental Review Commission (Romisi Pusat) of
Ministry of Public Works (MPW), whose chairman is Head of the Research and
Development Agency (BALITBANG) of MPW. The Commission holds regular weekly
meetings, has recently developed sectoral guidelines for preparation and
review of EAs of public works projects with the assistance of ADB, and has
adopted PY90191 work plans. A Technical Team and three DG-level Working
Groups provide technical support to the Commission. As of April 1990, the
Commission had processed EAs for other projects identified as involving
serious environmental issues (e.g. Bali Estuary Water Supply Project).
4.        Local-level environmental management, including review of EAs in
all sectors, is the responsibility of the provincial Governor. The
Governments of the Provinces of East Java and Bali have established
Environmental Review Commissions (Komisi ANDAL), which has began review of
local projects in 1989. East Java has also taken a leadership role in
adopting provincial water quality standards and actively undertaking water
pollution abatement under the GOI-CIDA PROKASI program for industrial waste
and the Bank's Second East Java Water Supply Project which included a
pollution control component. However, neither Regional Commission has
established adequate working arrangements; the Commissions do not meet
regularly; criteria for determining whether projects are to be reviewed at the



-152 -                         ANNEX 15
Page 2
provincial level or the national level are unclear in many sectors; and
technical support is not being provided to the commissions, either at the
provincial level or by the national-level Environmental Review Commissions of
the line ministries or KLH.  As of April 1990, the Regional Commission of East
Java had reviewed approximately 70 projects, mainly in the industrial sector
and the Regional Commission of Bali had reviewed approximately 15 projects,
mainly involving excavation of sand or gravel. Coordination between the
Central Commission of MPW and the Regional Commissions is weak. Although
water quality and related issues in coastal areas (e.g. protecting mangrove
areas, access to sea by traditional groups, etc.) have been identified as
priority environmental issues in both provinces, the Regional Commissions have
no environmental database to support environmental assessment and management
in coastal areas, and provincial and local staff have not received training in
environmental assessment and management.
S.        The Government's AMDAL requirements under Government Regulation
#2911986 are generally adequate, and generally consistent with the Bank's
environmental assessment requirements./I Capabilities of project proponents
and Commissions to meet AMDAL preparation and review requirements are limited,
however, and increased demand for environmental assessment and review under
East Java-Bali and other IUIDP projects is likely to exceed limited AMDAL
capabilities. The project includes agreed measures to meet Government and
Bank environmental assessment requirements, and technical assistance to ensure
that the agreed measures are carried out in a timely manner and build
environmental assessment and management capabilities at the provincial level.
6.        The following arrangements to ensure that sub-projects receiving
support under the project meet Government and Bank environmental assessment
requirements have been agreed during project preparations a) environmental
screening of sub-projects by the Regional Commissions and Central Commission
of MPW; b) preparation of initial and detailed EAs (PILs and ANDALs) by local
project proponents or their consultants; c) review of EAs by the Regional
Commission; and d) assurance of incorporation of environmental management
plans (RKLs) into project design by the provincial appraisal team.
7.        Given that these agreed environmental assessment procedures are new
and require substantially improved coordination among central (Central
Environmental Commission), provincial (Regional Environment Commission,
provincial appraisal team) and local (Level II Government) levels, technical
assistance will be essential to ensure that the procedures are implemented in
a timely manner, and to strengthen the Regional Commissions. The objectives
of the proposed technical assistance are to: a) assist implementation of the
arrangements for local-level environmental assessment of sub-projects outlined
in para. 6, to ensure timely implementation; and b) assist the Regional
Commission and Bappeda in each province tot i) inventory existing data and
government-and donor-assisted initiatives to address critical coastal water
quality issues; ii) design a provincial coastal zone water resource management
11   Environmental Assessment Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A.



ANNEX 15
- 153 -                         Page 3
database, to be maintained by the Regional CommissionJ Bappeda/Regional Office
of Population and Environment (BXLH), for use by planners, preparers and
reviewers of environmental assessments, and those responsible for
environmental monitoring; and iii) provide environmental assessment and
coastal zone management training to provincial and local staff. Draft terms
of reference of the technical assistance to strengthen environmental
assessment and management capabilities in each province have been prepared,
and the assistance is expected to begin with Japan Grant Funds even prior to
effectiveness of the Project.



ANNEX 16
- 154-                           Page 1
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA - BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Documents in the Proiect File
Consolidated Preparation Reports
1.   East Java - Bali Urban Development Projects Project Preparation Report,
East Java (Draft). November and March, 1990. Task Force EJBUDP,
Coordination Team for Urban Development (TKPP) Government of Indonesia,
and Government of East,Java Province.
2.   East Java - Bali Urban Development Project: Project Preparation Report,
Bali (Draft). March, 1990. Task Force EJBIDP, Coordination Team for Urban
Development (TKPP) Government of Indonesia, and Government of Bali
Province.
East Java: Official Batch I Local Government Preparation Documents
(separate volumes in Indonesian for each local government and signed by its
respective Bupati or Mayor: Banyuwangi, Sidoarjo, Sumenep, Lamongan, Jember,
Probolinggo, Kederi, Mojokerto and Pasuruan)
3.   Volume Is Rencana Investasi (Investment Program). various dates 1989.
East Java Province and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
4.  Volume II: Keuangan (Finance). various dates, 1989. East Java Province
and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
5.   Volume IlIs Rencana Kerja Peningkatan Pendapatan Daerah dan Rencana Kerja
Pengembangan Kelembagaan (Revenue Improvement Action Plan and
Institutional Development Action Plan). various dates, 1989. East Java
Province and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
6.   Volume IV: Ringkasan (Summary). various dates, 1989. East Java Province
and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
East Java: Batch I Local Government Working Papers
(separate volumes for each local government)
7.   Dokumen Teknis (Technical Documents). various dates, 1988-89. East Java
Province and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW. (all but Pasuruan and
Sumenep).
8.   Dokumen Keuangan (Financial Documents. variours dates, 1988-89. East Java
Province and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW. (all but Pasuruan).



ANNEX 16
-155                          Page 2
Bali: Official Batch I Local Government Preparation Documents
(separate volumes in Indonesian for each local government and signed by its
respective Bupati or Mayors Badung, Buleleng, Jembrana and Klungkung)
9,   Pokok-pokok Rancangan Program P3KT (IUIDP Planning Principles). February,
1990. Bali Province and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
10. Rencana Pembiayaan RIPK (Indicative Urban Infrastructure Financing Plan).
January, 1990. Bali Province and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
11. Analisa Ekonomi dan Keuangan RIPK (Indicative Urban Infrastructure
Economic and Fianancial Analysis). January, 1990. Bali Province and
Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
12. Strategi Pengembangan Kota & Ringkasan Program RIPK (Urban Development
Strategy and Indicative Urban Infrastructure Development Program
Summary). various dates, 1989-90. Bali Province and Directorate General
Cipta Karya, MPW.
Bali Working Papers
13. Tambahan Is RIPK Sector, Non-Water Supply (Supplement Is Sectoral
Indicative Urban Infrastructure Program, Non-Water Supply). various
dates, 1989-90. Bali Province and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
14. Tambahan IIt RIPK Sector Water Supply (Supplement II: Sectoral Indicative
Urban Infrastructure Program, Water Supply). various dates, 1989-90. Bali
Province and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
15. Tambahan IIIs RIPK Sector Non-Water Supply for IKK and Kawasan Wisata.
various dates, 1989-90 (Supplement III: Sectoral Indicative Urban
Infrastructure Program for Sub-district Headquarters and Tourist
Attractions). various dates, 1989-90. Bali Province and Directorate
General Cipta Xarya, MPW.
16.  Rencana Kegiatan Pengembangan Kelembagaan dan Peningkatan Pendapatan
Daerah (Institutional Development and Revenue Improvement Action Plans).
January 1990. Bali Province and Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
17. Penyajian Informasi Lingkungan TPA Jimbaran (Jimbaran Solid Waste
Disposal Site Environmental Assessment Information). 1990. Bali Province
and Direcorate General Cipta Karya. (Badung Kabupaten only).
18. Addendum II Urban Infrastructure Investment Program, Water Supply Sector
(in English). 1990. Bali Province and Directorate General Cipta Karya,
MPW.



ANNEX 16
- 156 -                        Page 3
Technical Memoranda
19. Technical Memorandum, Water Supply. November, 1989. Directorate General
Cipta Karya, MPW.
20. Technical Memorandum, City-wide Drainage. November, 1989. Directorate
General Cipta Karya, MPW.
21. Technical Memorandum, Cost Estimating. December, 1988. Directorate
General Cipta Karya, MPW.
22. Technical Memorandum, Solid Waste Disposal. November, 1989. Directorate
General Cipta Karya,  NW.
23. Technical Memorandum, Human Waste Disposal. November, 1989. Directorate
General Cipta Karya, MPW.
24. Technical Memorandum, Urban Roads. November, 1989. Directorate General
Cipta Karya, MPW.
25. Real Demand Assessment Guidelines. June, 1988. Directorate General Cipta
Karya, MPN.
26. East Java IUIDP Appraisal Process. February, 1989. Directorate General
Cipta Karya, MPW.
27. Institutional Development Strategy for IUIDP Program Implementation.
November, 1987. Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
28. Appraisal Manual. October, 1989. Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
29. ECOWAT 2. July, 1989. World Bank Preparation Mission.
Key Aides-Memoire
30. East Java - Bali Urban Development Project, Preappraisal Aide-Memoire.
December 10, 1989. World Bank Mission.
31. East Java - Bali Urban Developmpent Project. Appraisal Aide-Memoire.
April 10, 1990. World Bank Mission.
Other
32.  National Urban Development Study Final Report, Volumes 1-5.  September
1985. Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW, and United Nations Centre
for Human Settlements, UNDP.
33. Unabridged List of Project Documents. May, 1990. World Bank Appraisal
Mission.



ttl*                                        II                                         111-                                         1(1                                                                IBRO 22163
MU)INDONESIA
EAST JAVA (JAWA TIMUR- BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EAS JVA(JWATiLOCAL GOVERNMENTS
m3    IJDP BATCH I
[LI   IUIDP BATCH 11
E IUIDP BATCH III
[L    t77 SURMAYA
ro P-nboV
%,                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJN ROADS
/<            4 -- > ,,                                        /             /                                                      -       RAIllROADS7-
)(                      ~~~~~~~~Sumonep                             RIVER
rT sbo sE.  X  >            E   /          1sQ          flin             /      MAD   RA               isapudi is                                    KASUPATEN / KOTAMADYA BOUNDARIES
PROViNCE BOUNDARIES
Ras : 4        ' r VI_._RNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
*  >     t                                A         (_J          //SRABAY
75to#1U7~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ j   7                         cir1gxo              ,,fA   ,E   ;. 
*Mo1e9ont   odiuProbolin*,o
Kdrij
To Woiwgidf
/> -.ii,                .                                                                      :,                                                                                                 0w
ogi'l ~ ~       ~       ~        l ng g                            A N                     
SMALAYSIAI                                                                                     8                 k                    -,
KIMAN1N
..... VwFS  ..ida          Is.
0  10  20  50  40  50 KlOMlIRS                                              -
JWA
Map A- caI 
_   2                                      t                                           11A.                                        II



Strait   of   Madura
MAYANGAN 
N
1Xp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J7
-N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ft////     KERONSARI KULON4t11 / 
4-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                         
l44   -4  =UKABLIA4I,oAE1
8          PROHOANGI  TRUCTURE
WATE SUPPLY                                                      iBR AAA 
Prpsi Wae S4 ppr                   > (           PKS AI\l lN
2CO Dishbfo Mains,o                                                        t
Vtm     jlfibution Mains- 
*    NVothr Tcrtr4     
A    Ronggaiaol Spring                                                    \      
--    Service Ame Boundwtyt
-- Kcdsmyo /Ka6upol..Boundary                                            t       
Rivers
- Main Rccis                                                              \ 
Sccndery lod.                                                           !  
I   Rclroods 
0          5          1 KILOMETERS
SMATERA  108   lo0-  Ii2   li4
'Pp., lb 1,l- 8fo  0 mm ..elrroidkt ,                                               Java    Seca6
- .  _        W. A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ida
b;s}hmbimpwib7hvSirKmi*g¢:bbslh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~06  108 !10 Jokor            11 ,
IeIhodsdilWhnoo b Ws-o                                                                        w        ~UA b
(  ~,                _i   mmrt-                                                      ~      JI                'w
_ /            s    7b wd r mbmXpro hWGr     
i=/dl-SoKcer4MblsIdnOe7~-~   -b-9°t 
Propsa3 Watr Stppylo   ue
2 ...............lb' u-Itia Mains                                                                    'N;Il 
o~~~~Etisn   W_a  S...........p........p_ly                                                             '5...   



144-3o0   oah   5 ieC   1 5°037',    -.  1 il30' 
T --oongh
BALI                      O P-NA     o  T.O
8°30   ' -x<             8-30'-                 /   /
Areal of mop  - /~\tl'  ;str~  
Kvtd% -enppsrabo       n     PEGUYANGAN  _                                    2KIIOMETERS
rC4T : Gcr'o clY   11500'  11530'                   0    \\
To Tb-an      AJA
USUNCA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITo Gionyar
I                              I ASZ   |tKKESAM.F WES;RVOIq  I DAGN
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -S/\X' 
PEMECUTAN
KAJA          o~ 
KESIMA
PADAN 0> ff gGx STATtON    <   >jKERA
J (  1  t     C         i/          .    XSerarNpn 1.Si   A  / 
/    :)  V   [':     XI        <; J              ~~~~~~~EAST JAVA - BALI
\===1=   \            rjuierwo<xPore  (/URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DENPASAR AND KUTA INFRASTRUCURE
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__ Ex7r0roising Waler SupplPipeines
a  } 2             (4  toa                   90mm e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed WateXr Supply Pipelines-
tA    (PuMW^noNb,f  ;   (                  s    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Existing Pumping Slofiorn
gW',21/~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               E  b)   \\O    dpsfi Reservoirs
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Bo Lis)  \           _d
//1  1; LS                30Ja  v , <                _1 -- Atroive hBoundary
RESERVOIR  RSgDOIR                                         A  R
Dt   )   X  /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,Rs   BE. the 300S DUr   SIm.er
g/gf   X    H    /   ,  -thbND fiESERVOl  \    F;INDONESt
W- IUsn .a     SUP ,  ,   ,  ,  ,  s,
EEC TREAIMRNBePm               300Imo$PropMose.,doW=aw ..S,y tltdin
a  BomWes~~~~~~~~~~0



!SUMATERA      Jr19             ,,      ,,
JuLk                         MADURA
-r8       -      JA WA
H  ,_   ,         P-o~~YbuI rggo° 
04      19       10      112-     114'MAYANGAN
i~~~~~~~~=
I .                                                     YSMNOUNEARAN             -> 
KE' BUKA           B         UI                 I,(
K
//7 = /\ I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KEBONSARI KULONII
-  D   w      7j ~~~POH SANGIT KIDUL   /|RDNA  
~,/ 1tI  
t~~~   FrJ    1 \   1                 J                           UMB R ~~~~~~~~~TAMAN
t  t_ /                 \  ~~~~WOMOASIH/ 
w/   /   it                   \       J            ~~~~~~~~~        ~        ~        ~~~~~~PAKIS TAJIIt
(                                                                                                                                                a     ;
T. L.na,ongo
INDONESIA                                                             PROBOLINGGO ClrY DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
EAST JAVA - BALI
URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                 _      q         D                               E                r
PROBOLINGGO  INFRASTRUCTURE                                       -         O- en-rr ir      FirlYrer1990                     PriUnary Drirage
ROADS AND DRAINAGE                                                  C-narad D-ain,1                            S*cal Year 1D990in
Roads Under  e Poiect                                    0       FIscal YVa, 1991 2rfliry D.i-g.
-        Upgrcdirg oF Base                                     -         Fiol Y.er 1992
Widening                                             F--         ral Yen, 1993
Surface Impronements
Neon Sidasnalk.
--   Katamnny  / Kobupaten Boundary
-   Ri-ern
Main Roads
Secondary Roads
-    -Railnroads                                                                                                                 |
5              10 KILOMETERS-



INDONESIA
EAST JAVA - BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DENPASAR INFRASTRUCTURE
ROADS AND DRAINAGE
P-p-d                                              E,sting Roads:                                     Drainage:
__f6_e _res                                      >isigRos                                          Proposed I.ple.etition Program
Ne  Road                                 -         Main Roads                                _         o_ 1°.90/1991
___-   Wide;ing                                              Secondary Rods                                     1991/1992
Rehalbilitfion                                     CollectorRoads                            ------    1/1992
-…   New Sidewolk                                            LocalRoads                               .e...     1993/1994
o     Trffic light                                                                                  00000   1994/1995
S    PoNdna rot                                                                                     -       Existing Risers  Drainoge
D    New Brida.A Administtfire Boandary
Impj!I!eamtna  Prgrans
(   1990/1991
1991/1992
(D  1992/1993
1993/1994                                             T. Sogh
O   1994/1995                                                1                         r--    o JO9CnQe;
.9   .4~~~~~~~~~T oapf
I K----  '                   '
tSs;i_XS~~~-                                                            _ 11
\X           - r -$   *i3 b                            ARg-jF   ,                                 Sanur
.                               _ /                    /                       T !       bo. Tbb-
-'       *                                                                                                     2
tl etts*s I § \ _As-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~encl ar
tadian Oen~nts,
_e'3          mrow       3            1        1 ir  
WeidH |. .naS is. oaa
cc. eeec.et.ecti/  .e.' eo
[ ~     ~       ~        rrt 1143  -ccf Se   cT-o'                                             ,      ,'
8,~~~ALI , ;<   Srnal
i 13 _100                     11530-               /                          r/<   '                                                      110^WR



