Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17529
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
EAST JAVA BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3304-IND)
March 25, 1998
Urban Development Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupialh (Rp)
(As of January 1991)
Rp I million - US$526; US$1.00 = Rp 1,901
(As of September 1997)
Rp 1 million = US$305; US$1.00 = Rp 3,275
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                        - Asian Development Bank
AMDAL                       - GOI Environmental Assessment Process
BUIP                       - Bali Urban Infrastructure Project
EA                         - Environmental Assessment
EJB                        - East Java Bali Urban Development Project
EJ2                        - Second East Java Urban Development Pro'ject
EIRR                       - Economic Internal Rate of Return
GOI                         - Government of Indonesia
ICR                        - Implementation Completion Report
IllIDP                     - lntegrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
KI P                       - Kampung (neighborhood) Improvement Program
LIDAP                      - Local Institutional Development Action Plan
MIIP                       - Market Infrastructure Improvement Program
O & M                      - Operations and Maintenance
PDAM                       - Local Government Water Enterprise
PFAMS                      - Project Financial Accounting and Managemenit System
PJM                        - Medium-term (five year) Investment Programn
POMMS                      - Performance Oriented Maintenance Managemnenit System
PSP                        - Private Sector Participation
RIAP                       - Revenue Improvement Action Plan
SAR                        - Staff Appraisal Report
SLAIP                      - Subsidiary Loan Agreement witlh Pre-finanicingc
SPABP                      - Funds Channeling Documents for Special Grants to Lower Level
Governments
TA                          - Technical Assistance
lUNDP                      - United Nations Development Programme
Vice President                      Severino, Jean-Michel
Country Director                    de Tray, Dennis
Sector Manager                      Varma, Keshav
Task Manager                        Iyer, Raja



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
EAST JAVA BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 3304-IND)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .S................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .111..... ;
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENTIEVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                      .2
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION               .7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                           .8
*E. BANK PERFORMANCE.8
F. BORROWERPERFORMANCE                               .9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                            .0
H. FUTURE OPERATION.10
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT .12
TABLI 2:   RELATED URBAN AND WATER SUPPLY BANK LOANS .13
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .15
TABLE 4:   LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL.                 1 5
TABLE 5:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .16
TABLE 6:   KEY PERFROMANCE INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .........................................  **. 1 8
TAI1LE 7:   STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ..........................................: 25
T Axl.E 8A: PROJECT COSTS.26
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .........................................           27
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .28
TABLE 10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .......................................... . . .   3 1
TABLE II:  COMPLLANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .32
TABLE 12:  BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS (ACTUAL) .32
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .33
AllENDICES:
A. ICR MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE .............................                      36
B BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .............................               46
(. MAP(IBRD 22163)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without.
World Bank authorization.



I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
EAST JAVA BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3304-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the East Java Bali Urban Development
Project (Loan 3304-IND) in the Republic of Indonesia, for which US$180.3 million was approved on March
19, 1991 and made effective on June 25, 1991.
The Loan was closed on September 30, 1997 after an extension of nine months from the original
closing date of December 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place on February 9, 1998; the balance of US$
7.3 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Raja Iyer and Dong Liu (EASUR), Risyana Sukarma and Leila Elvas
(EACIF), and Ephrem Asebe, consultant. It was reviewed by Messrs. Dennis de Tray, Country Director,
Indonesia and Keshav Varma, Manager, Urban Development Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region.
Preparation of this ICR began with the ICR mission in June-July 1997. It is based on: the findings
of the [CR mission; inputs provided by government officials at ICR workshops in Bali, East Java, and
Jakarta; data furnished by GOI and their consultants; and documents in the project file. It has benefited from
a review of the Bank's decentralized urban portfolio in Indonesia (Review of the Bank's Decentralized
Urban Portfolio: Republic of Indonesia, by Alexandra Ortiz, dated August 29, 1997). Comments received
from a number of persons (as well as the project executing agency) on a draft version have been
incorporated, as appropriate. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on the
draft of the ICR and by providing an independent evaluation of the project's execution, which is shown in
Appendix B.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
EAST JAVA -BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.
(Loan 3304-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The Government of Indonesia (GOI) articulated its priorities for the urban sector in a Statement of
Policies for Urban Management issued in 1987 and incorporated these policies in Repelita V, the fifth
national five-year plan, for the period 1989-94. Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Programming
(IUIDP), including inter alia, the preparation and implementation of integrated five year investment
programs (PJMs) in seven sectors was the operational approach for achieving the objectives of the Policy
Statement. The Policy Statement, including IUIDP, became ajoint approach of GOI and the Bank to
address urban development in the country. The East Java Bali Urban Development Project (EJB, Loan 3304
- IND) was the flagship project under the IUIDP concept; the IUIDP approach was subsequently adopted by
over 75% of the local governments, and became the basis for donor supported urban programs throughout
Indonlesia.
Project Objectives
ii.    The fundamental objective of EJB was to improve the quality of the urban infrastructure investment
and service delivery in East Java and Bali. The operational objectives were to: (a) support urban
infrastructure investment (including rehabilitation) in up to 45 local governments in East Java and Bali; (b)
improve urban infrastructure expenditure programming, financial planning and information management in
these local governments; (c) encourage local revenue generation, improve finanicial management, and
strengthien local government human resources and institutions; and (d) assist sector development nation-
wide, incliuding preparation of future projects.
iii.    The objectives of the project were clear, and were consistent with goverillent policy and the
Bank's assistance strategy for addressihg urban sector priorities in Indonesia. East .lava and Bali provinces
were appropriate for testing and implementing the IUIDP approach, given their urban infrastructure needs
and relatively well developed provincial and local government institutions. The SAR correctly identified the
chief risk as slower than required pace of institutional development to successfully operationalize the new
initiatives piloted under the project. The loan covenants were generally useful in facilitating achievement of
project objectives.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    In the context of its pilot nature, and the complexities of the project described above, the
achievements of the project are satisfactory. Economic benefits from the projeci are considered satisfactory.
v.    Investments in water supply, urban roads, drainage, and solid waste management constituted the
major portion of the physical investments. The quantity and quality of works were generally satisfactory



iv
and the objectives of the investmentprogram were by and large achieved Infrastructure assets, especially
those created under the project, were reasonably well maintained.
vi.    The project substantially achieved the overarching objective of improving urban infrastructure
programming, financialplanning, and information management in local governments Local government
involvement in the preparation of PJMs varied in the two provinces, being in general much greater in Bali
than in East Java. The follow-on projects were prepared in both provinces witlh the local and provincial
governments taking the lead in program development. Thespecial grant mechanism, SPABP,
operational ized under the project, provided an incentive to local governments to accept decentralization. It
became standard practice in all subsequent Bank urban projects and was adopted by other donors. including
the Asian Development Bank. In the 1997/98 budget year, GOI took the next major step in decentralization
by channeling all of the urban infrastructure grants - rather than merely a part - directly to local
governments. Other initiatives under this objective included implementing: (a) the borrowing mechanism of
subsidiary loan agreements with pre-financing (SLAP); (b) the performance oriented maintenance
management system (POMMS), where progress was slow; and (c) the project finalncial accounting and
management system (PFAMS).
vii.   The objective to encourage local revenue generation, improve financial management, and
strengthen local government human resources and institutions was substantially achieved. Revenue
improvement action plans (RIAPs) supported under the project were successful. The objective of
introducing the concept of borrowing for urban infrastructure (and servicing debt) to the local governments
of the two provinces was substantially achieved; recent appraisals of the follow-oni projects in both
provinces confirmed the debt servicing capacity of the EJB sub-borrowers. Efforts to improve the financial
management of participating water enterprises were only partially successful; these issues are being
addressed under the follow-on projects. The project contributed tostrengthening local government
institutions in various aspects of IUIDP, primarily through learning on the job, with support from various
consultants.
viii.   The sector development objective was satisfactorily achievedas: (a) thle relevant phase of the lJNDP
project was very effective; and (b) the follow-on projects were almost entirely developed from EJB loan
funds.
ix.    Project Cost and Financing. The cost of the implemented project (net of interest during
construction) was $405 million, about 12% higher than the original estimate. EJB loan financed $173
million, about $7.3 million below the loan amount; the balance of financing was provided by various GO!
agencies, except for $4.2 million provided by a Japan grant for technical assistance. The balance in the
Bank loan was canceled, as the urban infrastructure needs in the two provinces are being met by the follow-
on projects. Currency rates were not a significant problem till June 1997, as by thien the rupiah value had
changed from 1,900 to the dollar in January 1991 to about 2,400 to the dollar; however, by the closing date,
the rupiah had depreciated to 3,275 to the dollar. The original loan closing date of December 31, 1996 was
extended by nine months to enable three major water supply sub-projects in Badung, Gresik, and Sidoarjo
(which started late due to delay in availability of counterpart funds) to be completed.
x.     Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation. Delay in finalizing procedures for the new
financing mechanisms introduced in EJB, viz., SPABP and SLAP, affected project implementation during
the first two years. Major factors affecting the project that were subject to implementing agency control
included delays in: (a) mobilization of key technical assistance packages to support program managemrent;
(b) developing a reasonable operational understanding of the new roles and responsibilities of central,



v
provincial, and local agencies; (c) availability of counterpart funding for the major water supply sub-projects
in Badung, Sidoarjo, and Gresik; and (d) establishing systems for progress reporting and project monitoring.
The changes in macroeconomic conditions (and the drastic fall in the value of the rupiah) from July 1997
had only a marginal impact on EJB, as by then the project had substantially been completed.
xi.    Bank Performance. Bank identification of the project and assistance in its preparation was
satisfactory; EJB was a good vehicle to pilot the new strategy for urban development agreed between GOI
and the Bank, viz., the IUIDP concept. Bank appraisal of EJB was comprehensive and thorough, and
diligently addressed all Bank requirements. Bank supervision of EJB was highly satisfactory. A
comprehensive mid-term review was carried out in February 1994 and produced an insightful analysis of the
achievements and failures of the project, and included guidance for future action.
xii.   Borrower Performance. Borrower performance was satisfactory, both in preparation and
implementation. Provincial and local governments, in general, were able to handle the additional
responsibilities transferred to them, albeit with significant consultant support. Central government agencies,
however, did not always recognize the importance of providing guidance, direction, and mentoring to
provincial and local governments in the new decentralized environment. The generally positive response of
most key government officials to specific cases of concern - in sub-project appraisal, procurement,
construction quality, 0 & M, need for improved environmental management, etc. - provided room for
guarded optimism on most such matters. These issues require on-going attention from government, and
demonstrating improved results in the follow-on projects will be a key challenge for GOI.
xiii.   Project outcome. The project achieved most of its stated objectives, in particular, the overarching
objective of initiating a paradigm shift from central to local responsibility for urban infrastructure.
Sustainability of project benefits is, however, uncertain in the short run in view of the severe adverse
changes in the country's macroeconomic situation.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
xiv.   Findings. EJB made a signal contribution in operationalizing the decentralization objectives of
GOI's Urban Policy Statement. The IUIDP approach was a major departure from earlier sectoral
approaches, recognized that urban management was necessarily multi-sectoral and complex, and attempted
to get urban managers to prepare PJMs for urban infrastructure sectors by allocating the available limited
resources optimally between sectors. In practice, integrated planning made a good start at the global (i.e.,
citywide) level, but at the detail level planning remained sectoral. A further drawback was the inadequate
attention to preparing sectoral master plans as the basis for investment programs, and a tendency to focus
instead on short term needs on an ad hoc basis. Finally, as anticipated in the SAR, EJB did not advance the
sectoral agenda in the individual sectors, water supply being a noteworthy example.
xv.    Future Operation. Assets created by EJB will be operated and maintained by the respective local
governments and PDAMs. Bank supervision missions for the two follow-on projects will monitor progress
on performance indicators developed for those projects which, inter alia, address issues such as water
supply finance, 0 & M, and local government capacity, which are relevant to EJB.
xvi.   Key Lessons Learned. The lessons for future Bank project interventions flow from the lending
strategy articulated in the SAR and the EJB experience, highlighted in the mid-tern review. These would
argue for future urban projects to be in the following categories: (a) programmatic packages, limited to the
smaller urban centers in at most a single province; (b) projects for municipal local governments of the lRrc-?



vi
cities (kotamadya) and the surrounding peri-urban districts (kabupatens); and, (c) sectoral projects in the
larger metropolitan centers, e.g., Jakarta, Surabaya, Medan, Bandung, based on overall infrastructure
development plans of the metro city.
xvii.  Municipal development projects, focusing on capacity building for urban management and
improved infrastructure service delivery in sectors under direct local government management, would likely
be the appropriate vehicles for projects described in paragraph xvi (a) and (b). In the case of water supply,
decentralization of investment programs from Cipta Karya to PDAMs has largely been achieved through
EJB (and subsequent urban projects). The focus should now be on the major reforn agenda for the sector to
improve (efficiency of) service delivery - institutional changes, financing options, private sector
participation - outlined in the October 1997 Bank paper (Indonesia: Urban Water Supply Sector Policy
Framework, Indonesia Discussion Paper Series, No. 9) and adopted by GOI. This would be best achieved
through free standing water supply projects.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
EAST JAVA BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3304-IND)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Background. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) articulated its priorities for the urban sector in a
Statement of Policies for Urban Management issued in 1987 and incorporated these policies in Repelita V,
the fifth national five-year plan, for the period 1989-94. The Policy Statement emphasizes: (a) strengthening
local governments to assume the leading role in developing, operating and maintaining local services; (b)
improving the planning and programming of urban infrastructure services; (c) revising grant flows,
mobilizing local revenues, and optimizing their use; (d) implementing a coordinated financing system for the
development and administration of local services; and (e) strengthening consultations between various levels
of government, especially the participation of local governments. Integrated Urban Infrastructure
Development Programming (IUIDP), including inter alia, the preparation and implementation of integrated
five year investment programs (PJMs) in seven sectors - water supply, drainage, solid waste management,
sanitation, urban roads, neighborhood improvement program (KIP), and market infrastructure improvement
program (MIIP) - was the operational approach for achieving the objectives of the Policy Statement.
2.    The Policy Statement, including IUIDP, became a joint approach of GOI and the Bank to address
urban development in the country. The East Java Bali Urban Development Project (EJB, Loan 3304 - IND)
was the flagship project under the IUIDP concept; the IUIDP approach was subsequently adopted by over
75% of the local governments, and became the basis for donor supported urban programs throughout
Indonesia.
3.    Project Objectives. The fundamental objective of EJB was to improve the quality of the urban
infrastructure investment and service delivery in East Java and Bali. The operational objectives were to: (a)
support urban infrastructure investment (including rehabilitation) in up to 45 local governments in East Java
and Bali; (b) improve urban infrastructure expenditure programming, financial planning and information
management in these local governments; (c) encourage local revenue generation, improve financial
management, and strengthen local government human resources and institutions; and (d) assist sector
development nation-wide, including preparation of future projects.
4.    Project Components. The project comprised the following three principal components: (a)
infrastructure development, rehabilitation, and operations and maintenance (O&M), through a five-year
expenditure program in the IUIDP sectors (US$340 million, 94.4% of total project costs); (b) program
management, to support further program and sub-project preparation, and for management of program
implementation (US$ 15.0 million, 4.2% of project costs); and (c) institutional development, comprising
municipal management improvement and sector development ($5.0 million, 1.4% of project costs).
5.    Evaluation of Objectives. The objectives of the project were clear, and were consistent with
government policy and the Bank's assistance strategy for addressing urban sector priorities in Indonesia.
The project provided GOI and the Bank an opportunity to pilot the IUIDP approach through financing
investments serving both economic and social needs. East Java and Bali provinces were appropriate for.
testing and implementing the IUIDP approach, given their urban infrastructure needs and relatively well



2
developed provincial and local government institutions. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) correctly
identified the chief risk as slower than required pace of institutional development to successfully
operationalize the whole series of new initiatives - decentralization, local revenue improvements, local
borrowing, implementation of a performance oriented maintenance managemenit system (POMMS), etc. -
piloted under the project.
6.     Project design was complex at three levels: sectoral (see paragraph I); geographical (see paragraph
3); and institutional (involving three levels of government - central, provincial, and local - with multiple
agencies at each level). When coupled with the new initiatives indicated in paragraph 5, their impact on the
project was considerably magnified. The sectoral and institutional coYnplexity was. however, unavoidable in
the context of decentralizing urban infrastructure investments through existing institutional channels.
7.     Covenants. The loan covenants were generally useful in facilitating achievement of project
objectives. The covenant on 0 & M expenditure could have been better formulated to measure physical
improvements in 0 & M. The financial covenants for full cost recovery for water supply within the project
period did not anticipate the difficulties in implementing them in the absence of suitable incentives to the
local governments and their water enterprises.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.     Overall Assessment. In the context of its pilot nature, and the complexities of the project described
above, the achievements of the project (which are described below) were satisfactory.
Objective A: Urban Infrastructure Investment, Rehabilitation, and 0 & M
9.    Infrastructure investments, and 0 & M constituted about 88.6% of the implemented project.
Investments in water supply, urban roads, drainage, and solid waste management constituted the major
portion of the physical investments. Table 5 provides details of targeted and actual investments in the two
provinces by sector. (The significant variations are due to the programmatic nature of the project; at
appraisal, investment volumes were estimated, based on assessments of the investments in the first batch of
local governments. Actual investments reflect the changed conditions and the priorities at the time of
finalizing annual development programs.) Based on the findings of the ICR mnission and various supervision
missions, the quantity and quality of works were generally satisfactory and the objectives of the investment
program were by and large achieved.
10.    Water Supply. Water supply investments were made in 14 water enterprises (PDAMs) in East Java
and eight PDAMs in Bali. Investments planned in Surabaya were transferred to the Surabaya Urban
Development Project (Loan 3726 - IND); some of the investments in Badung were implemented outside the
project through ajoint venture between private investors and PDAM Badung. The project generally
achieved its targets of water production and service connections; detailLs of project achievements on number
of connections, volume of water produced and sold, and percentage of unaccounted for water, are contained
in Table 6A. The quality of major facilities constructed under the project (in Badung, Sidoarjo, and Gresik)
was good. Improper alignment and inappropriate pipe material, combined with an unexpected flash flood,
resulted in the project financed transmission main for PDAM Klungkung in Bali being washed away.
Following Bank review of the report of a government inquiry, the transmission main was rebuilt using steel
pipes along a different alignment.



3
II.    Urban Roads. Investments in urban roads mainly comprised widening within existing rights of
way, strengthening the pavement, incorporating drains, and providing sidewalks; a few sub-projects
involved the construction of new roads. Quality of road works was generally good. Road surfaces were for
the most part smooth, with well compacted asphalt. In general, openings through the curbs to drains were
satisfactory, with some examples of good detail in screened openings. Sidewalks, constructed as part of
road sub-projects, have improved pedestrian safety; they were designed and built higher than normal to
avoid their use ]for parking.
12.   Solid Waste Management. During the early stages of the project, good standards were not
consistently achieved in site selection, development and operation of landfills. Supervision missions
concentrated on these aspects, and landfills inspected in both East Java and Bali during the ICR mission
indicate much better management, with minimal apparent impact on the environment. The contrast between
the landfill at Canggu (in Badung) and Suwung (in Denpasar) in Bali is stark: the former was built with due
regard to environmental considerations, while the latter was not financed from loan funds as repeated Bank
advice to construct an environmentally safe landfill were not accepted. Transfer stations financed under the
project were well constructed and properly maintained, with the station in Singaraja being a particularly
good model.
13.    Other Sectors. The larger drainage works inspected were built to an acceptable standard.
Maintenance however needs to be improved - both desilting and patching up of cracks. Most of the project
works in human waste were small. The septage treatment plant (IPLT) in Denpasar was well laid out,
satisfactorily constructed, and is one of the few working septage plants in Indonesia. The sub-projects in the
small KIP and MIIP project components were generally well implemented.
14.    Operations and Maintenance (O & M). Bank supervision missions (including the ICR Mission)
found that infrastructure assets, especially those created under the project, were reasonably well maintained;
however, as with 0 & M in local governments in developing countries around the world, there is scope for
furtlher improvement. 0 & M should be addressed on a systematic and on-goinig basis. (See Para. 20 on
POMMS.) It was heartening to listen to government officials at all levels emphasizing the importance of 0
& M at the provincial and national ICR workshops. Data presented in Table 6C compares PJM 0 & M
targets and implemented expenditures, and indicate a very favorable picture overall; however, these should
be read with caution, as both the system for estimating targets and the one for compiling actual expenditure
need improvement. (See paragraph 20.)
Objective B: Improve Urban Infrastructure Expenditure Programming, Financial Planning, and
Information Management in Project Local Governments
15.   This overarching project objective sought to initiate a dramatic paradigm shift in urban
infrastructure through principally: (a) significant decentralization of urban infrastructure to local
governments through local preparation of PJMs; (b) operationalizing a new grant mechanism (SPABP) to
channel a part of the loan proceeds to local govenmments for local management of implementation of a part
of the PJMs; and (c) operationalizing a new loan facility (subsidiary loan agreements with pre-financing -
SLAP) to on-lend a part of the loan proceeds to local governments at real interest rates.
16.   The project faced major start-up problems in its initial years; nevertheless, by the end of the project,
progress was substantial. However, much remains to be done in building local capacity in these areas and
will require on-going government and Bank support to build on the gains of the project. On balance, this
objective can be considered as substantially achieved.



4
17.    Urban Infrastructure Programming. Local government involvement in thie preparation of PJMs
varied in the two provinces, being in general much greater in Bali than in East Java. The original PJMs were
thus implemented in Bali with relatively few major changes, whereas in East Java more changes were made
during annual program reviews, as the provincial government and the local governments took greater control
of the East Java programs. (This accounts, in part, for the variation in Table 5 between targets and
achievements.) Overtime, the respective roles of local, provincial, and central agencies became better
understood, and decentralization has taken stronger root in both provinces. It is nioteworthy thatfollow-on
projects were prepared in both provinces (the Bali Urban Infrastructure Project - BUIP (Ln. 4155-IND),
and the Second East Java Urban Development Project - EJ2 (Ln. 401 7-IND1 wtith the local and provincial
governments taking the lead in program development, the central governmentrs role in these follow-on
projects was limited to providing overall direction and guidance. Considerable consultant support was still
required in both provinces to prepare these follow-on projects, and the process was not always smootlh,
especially in East Java.
18.    The SPABP Mechanism. Operationalization of the SPABP grant mechlan ism provided an incentive
to local governments to accept decentralization by transferring responsibility to the local level for planning,
budgeting, financing, and implementing a portion of central government funding for local investments.
After significant delays of nearly nine months in the flow of funds in the first year, the annual SPABP
process accelerated somewhat. The SPABP mechanism became standard practice in all subsequent Bank
urban projects and was adopted by other donors, including the Asian Development Bank (ADB). In the
1997/98 budget year, GOI took the next major step in decentralization by channlelinig all of the urban
infrastructure grants - rather than merely a part - directly to local governments.
19.    The SLAP Mechanism. The majority of the participating local governments and PDAMs borrowed
funds from the proceeds of the Bank loan through the SLAP mechanism to finance a part of their investment
programs. (See also paragraph 22.) The SLAPs incorporate "real" interest rates. However, operationalizing
the SLAP mechanism (after due review and clearance of the new procedures by the various central
gov rmment agencies) took time, delaying transfer of funds for the relevant sub-projects. The SLAP has
since been refined in more recent urban projects, with the pre-financing requirement being dropped; interest
rates remain "real", but are not yet at market levels.
20.    POMMS. Progress in installing and implementing the POMMS system was slow; the principal
project accomplishment was the preparation of a comprehensive inventory of assets and their condition, and
providing forecasts of future maintenance needs. The system installed was, lhowever, too elaborate;
inventories of infrastructure assets compiled under the project could soon become obsolete, if they are not
regularly updated. Local government use of POMMS varied, depending on the commitment of key
managers to provide the requisite staff and computing equipment to maintain the systems up-to-date. The
planned changes to the government budgeting system, which will make it easier to obtain reliable data on 0
& M expenditures in future, will be a positive development.
1.    Project FinancialAccounting and Management System (PF4MS). PFAMS was installed and
operated in all participating local governments after initial teething troubles and produced regular and
reasonably timely provincial level financial information on project implementation progress. However, it
did not become an effective program management tool for local governments; it also did not work
effectively at the central level. The central project management organization (CPMO) of the executing
agency monitored technical assistance and produced consolidated financial reports on an ad hoc basis.
PFAMS is, however, being implemented at the provincial level in BUIP and EJ2.



5
Objective C: Encourage Local Revenue Generation, Improve Financial Management, and
Strengthen Local Government Human Resources and Institutions
22.   Local Revenue Generation. Revenue improvement action plans (RIAPs) supported under the
project were successful, and the local revenue generation target was substantially achieved Table 6B
shows that the realized growth rates in 1996/97 in the East Java and Bali local governments compare
favorably with targets. RIAP remains an important element of the follow-on projects in East Java and Bali.
The Ministry of Home Affairs considers East Java and Bali to be at the forefront of RIAP development, and
proposes to use the systems and documentation in East Java and Bali as a model.
23.   Local Government Borrowing. The objective of introducing the concept of borrowing for urban
infrastructure (and servicing debt) to the local governments of the two provinces was substantially achieved.
Of the local govemments that had a significant participation in the project, all 22 in East Java and three (of
nine) in Bali received a portion (the amount being determined by their respective borrowing capacities) of
the proceeds of the Bank loan as an on lent sub-loan from the central government. Recent financial
projections (reviewed during the appraisals of BUIP and EJ2) for these local governments confirm that net
revenues in each case will be sufficient (in most cases by a very substantial margin) to meet the covenanted
debt service coverage ratio of 1.5.
24.   Financial Status of PDAMs. Financial performance of PDAMs participating in the project was
mixed, as shown in Table 6. In general tariff increases were too little and too late to meet the financial
covenants of full cost recovery by March 1994. Only nine out of twenty two participating PDAMs
generated sufficient revenues in 1996 to meet operating costs and depreciation; five failed to recover
operating costs. Both BUIP and EJ2 require participating PDAMs (which include some EJB PDAMs) to
achieve full cost recovery; government and Bank missions will also monitor progress of other EJB PDAMs
in the two provinces in this regard.
25.   Strengthening Local Governments. The project contributed to strengthening local government
institutions in various aspects of IUIDP, primarily through learning on the job, with support from various
consultants. (Specialized technical assistance, originally planned for implementing local institutional
development action plans - LIDAPs - did not materialize.) Progress was good in urban infrastructure
planning, appraisal, programming, improved financial planning, increased local revenue generation, etc.
Greater efforts are needed in 0 & M, financial management of water enterprises, and strengthening
environmental management capacity. Capacity building at the local level is an on-going process and is
being addressed under BUIP and EJ2.
26.   Capacity building in environmental management had only a limited success in EJB; however, the
experience was instructive and has gathered momentum in BUIP and EJ2. In Bali, an umbrella
environmental monitoring and management plan (EMMP) is being implemented, and is serving as a model
for other urban and transport projects in Indonesia. In East Java, a much more practical environmental
management training program has been designed in consultation with provincial environmental staff and the
provincial agencies are actively involved in screening proposed investments and reviewing environmental
documents.
27.   Local Government Financial Accounting and Management. Technical assistance for a special study
to continue the development (started under earlier Bank financed projecis) and implementation of improved
financial systems in local governments (on a national basis) did not have the desired impact. The work to
complete system design, pilot testing and full adoption in a selected local government (Kabupaten Bogor,



6
near Jakarta) was considerably delayed; efforts on a parallel run of the new system in East Java and Bali
were unsuccessful owing, apparently, to insufficient government support.
Objective D: Assist in Sector Development
28.    EJB assisted sector development in the country through co-financing (with UNDP) technical
assistance for implementation support for IUIDP throughout the country and in the preparation of future
Bank urban projects. The sector development objective was satisfactorily achieved as: (a) the relevant
phase of the UNDP project was very effective; and (b) BUIP and EJ2 were alnost entirely developed from
Loan 3304-lND funds, and partial support was also provided for completing the preparation and appraisal of
the Surabaya and Kalimantan Urban Development Projects.
29.    Project Cost and Financing. The cost of the implemented project (net of interest during
construction) was $405 million, about 12% higher than the original estimate. EJB loan financed $173
million, about $7.3 million below the loan amount; the balance of financing was provided by various GOI
agencies, except for $4.2 million provided by a Japan grant for technical assistance. The balance in the
Bank loan was canceled, as the urban infrastructure needs in the two provinces are being met by the follow-
on projects. Currency rates were not a significant problem till June 1997, as by then the rupiah value had
changed from 1,900 to the dollar in January 1991 to about 2,400 to the dollar; however, by the closing date,
the rupiah had depreciated to 3,275 to the dollar. The original loan closing date of December 31, 1997 was
extended by nine months to enable three major water supply sub-projects in Badung, Gresik, and Sidoarjo
(which started late due to delay in availability of counterpart funds) to be completed.
Economic Rate of Return
30.    Economic benefitsfrom the project are considered satisfactory. Economic internal rates of return
(EIRR) were recalculated during the ICR exercise for a sarnple of medium sized roads and drainage sub-
projects in the two provinces; barring two outliers, the recalculated EIRRs were above the SAR threshold of
10%. Recalculated EIRRs of water supply investments in East Java indicate that the returns were
acceptable; the exceptions are Sidoarjo and Gresik, where the benefits of the investment program were not
realized as required non-project investments to bring water from Umbulan springs were not made.
Economic returns of the Bali water supply investments were considered acceptable, as the targets set at
appraisal, e.g., water sold, investment and operating costs, were largely met; the financial rates of return
were, however, negative for the most part, owing to a failure to increase tariffs to the required levels.
Investments in the other sectors were considered economically acceptable based on their following agreed
technical criteria and least cost solutions. Table 9 and its attachment provide further details on economic
analysis.
Evaluation of Program Objective Categories
31.    Poverty Impact. Given the low levels of poverty in East Java and Bali (8.8% and 12.3%
respectively), the project was not a targeted poverty intervention. Drainage, KIP, and public stand pipes
benefited the poor directly through protection from flooding and improved provision of basic services. An
indirect positive impact on poverty was the involvement of unskilled local labor in the many small civil
works contracts obtained by local contractors.
32.   Local Participation. EJB made a significant contribution to shifting the locus of responsibility for
urban infrastructure from the central government to local governments through the IUIDP process.



7
Beneficiary households and communities were involved in the identification, preparation, and
implementation of KIP and MIIP, as well as in public water supply standpipes. Progress has continued in
BUIP and EJ2, where local governments developed the first cut investment programs. Greater involvement
of communities in all sectors is also a feature of the follow-on projects. GOI's decision in early 1997 to
transfer all development funding for urban infrastructure directly to the local governments further enhanced
local participation and increased the potential for greater community participation.
33.   Environmental Management. EJB was technically not subject to OD 4.00 Annex A; however,
environmental assessments (EA) were conducted on the basis of GOI AMDAL procedures (initially under a
1986 regulation, and later under a presidential decree issued in 1993). The substantial amount of effort
devoted to EA in EJB contributed to the environmental soundness of the sub-projects, as designed.
However, agencies implementing the sub-projects did not fully follow through on the recommendations of
the environmental management and monitoring plans because: (a) the training provided was neither timely
nor fully relevant; and (b) it was difficult for provincial governments to interact with the central agencies
responsible for review and approval of environmental assessments. In BUIP and EJ2, timely environmental
training is being emphasized, environmental studies are the responsibility of the sub-project proponents,-and
the provincial governments have the lead role in reviewing environmental documents, and overseeing
implementation of AMDALs.
34.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. Given the emphasis on rehabilitation and upgrading of existing
infrastructure, EJB did not require significant land acquisition and no known or reported resettlement.
Where required, compensation was provided to affected persons according to agreed guidelines.
35.   Private Sector Participation (PSP). The private sector participated in EJB through the provision of
contractual services for civil works, goods, and consultant services. EJB did not envisage any private sector
participation in either financing or management of infrastructure services in the two provinces. However, a
joint venture company between private investors and PDAM Badung financed the extension of water service
to the Nusa Dua resort area in Bali. (In the Bank's view, the terms could have been more favorable to
PDAM Badung.) BUIP envisages substantial PSP (on a competitive basis), in both water supply and solid
waste management. PSP opportunities in water supply and solid waste management are also being explored
in EJ2.
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
36.   Factors not generally subject to government control. All factors of significance to the project
were generally subject to either govermment or implementing agency control.
37.   Factors generally subject to government control. The major factor affecting EJB
implementation, that was subject to government control, was the delay in finalizing procedures for the new
financing mechanisms introduced in EJB, viz., SPABP and SLAP. The changes in macroeconomic
conditions (and the drastic fall in the value of the rupiah) from July 1997 had only a marginal impact on
EJB, as by then the project had substantially been completed.
38.   Factors subject to implementation agency controL Major factors affecting the project that were
subject to implementing agency control included the following:
(a) Technical Assistance. Mobilization of key technical assistance packages to support program
manaaement at provincial and local levels was delayed by as much as 18 months, affecting implementation



8
(e.g., the Klungkung transmission pipe design and installation was not subjected to a sufficiently careful
review) and capacity building efforts. Inadequate management of TA packages further limited the impact of
a number of packages.
(b) Program coordination. Because of the newness of the IUIDP concept, it took some time before
there was a reasonable operational understanding of the new roles and responsibilities of central, provincial,
and local agencies under EJB. Even central government agencies sometimes began implementation of large
sub-projects without consulting the executing agency regarding the required feasibility study and appraisal,
e.g., the Lamongan Ring Road sub-project (which was subsequently excluded from EJB). Coordination was
particularly difficult in the large East Java province.
(c) Delay in availability of counterpartfunding. The major water supply sub-projects in Badung,
Sidoarjo, and Gresik were affected by such delays, which in turn were responsible for the nine month
extension of the project closing date.
(d) Progress reporting andproject monitoring Proper systems were not in place for nearly two
years, owing to delayed consultant mobilization. Institutional weaknesses in the program (financial)
management arm of Cipta Karya, the executing agency, affected consolidated financial reporting throughout
the life of the project.
D. Project Sustainability
39.    Project sustainability is considered uncertain, and is linked to the pace of improvements in the
overall economy and sustained assistance from central government to strengthen the capacity of local
governments. GOI commitment to decentralization of urban infrastructure, as demonstrated through various
policy decisions, and a growing appreciation (at even local government levels) of tlhe importance of
economic, technical, financial, and environmental considerations in selecting urbani infrastructure
investments, are important factors that affect sustainability favorably. BUIP and EJ2, the follow-on projects
in the two provinces, provide the Bank and the government (central, provincial, and local) an opportunity to
build on the achievements of EJB, and focus further efforts on full cost recovery in water supply and on
further improvements to 0 & M. Difficulties experienced in the start-up of EJ2 confirm the need for
sustained institutional development efforts to enable local governments to meet the greater responsibilities
that have been given to them. The adverse change in Indonesia's macroeconom ic situation since July 1997
could, if it persists for an extended period, result in deferral of the required water supply tariff increases and
cutbacks in needed 0 & M outlays.
E. Bank Performance
40.    Bank identification of the project was satisfactoryas EJB was a good vehicle to pilot the new
strategy for urban development agreed between GOI and the Bank, viz., the IUIDP concept. Bank
assistance in the preparation of EJB was, on the whole, satisfactory. It included support for extensive
training in IUIDP and for the development of the investrnent program. Bank staff and consultants,
representing a wide range of required skills, provided guidance to GOI and their consultants through regular
preparation missions. The project team recognized the inherent complexity in the design of this pilot
project; however, the options of simplifying either the sectoral or the geographical scope were not
considered feasible. The former (e.g., excluding water supply) would have meant not decentralizing water
sector investments, while the latter (e.g., excluding Bali province) was unacceptable to government.



9
41.   Bank appraisal of EJB was satisfactory. It was comprehensive and thorough, and diligently
addressed all Bank requirements. The structured approach to economic analysis and the adoption of a
programmatic approach to the development and appraisal of the investment programs of the second and
third batches of local governments (see attachment to Table 9) were appropriate. The chief risk of the pace
of institutional change being slower than required was correctly identified, but was considered minimal in
light of the relative sophistication of the provincial governments. Financial analysis of PDAMs adopted the
standard Bank approach of full cost recovery, which in practice proved too optimistic, particularly as
incentives to ensure compliance of individual PDAMs to loan covenants were not built in, e.g., through
tieing them in to loan disbursements to the corresponding local governments through annual reviews. A
special feature of the appraisal was that the entire Bank team was proficient in (at least) spoken Indonesian,
which greatly facilitated substantive discussions with local governments.
42. Bank supervision of EJB was highly satisfactory. Supervision missions generally contained the
appropriate mix of skills, identified and resolved key issues in a timely fashion, and assessed development
impact regularly. The Task Manager during the initial years of implementation and the (municipal) financial
analyst, who were key members of the preparation and appraisal teams, provided essential continuity and
were responsible for working with government to resolve a variety of start-up problems. Given the
geographic spread and the number of sectors involved, supervision of physical works was undertaken on a
sample basis, focusing on major or sensitive sub-projects. Supervision missions identified and helped
rectifv a number of implementation problems e.g., Canggu landfill, Denpasar septage plant, water supply
sub-projects in Gianyar, Sidoarjo and Gresik, and the Lamongan Ring Road. A comprehensive mid-term
review was carried out in February 1994 and produced an insightful analysis of the achievements and
failures of the project, and included guidance for future action; these have also contributed to the section on
lessons learned (paragraphs 52-56).
43.    One of the main reasons for the effectiveness of EJB supervision was the substantial use of staff
(local and international) from the Resident Staff in Indonesia (RSI). RSI staff were involved from the
beginning on NCB procurement, disbursement, and sample reviews of statements of expenditure (SOEs).
After the mid-term review, an RSI engineer was assigned as RSI Lead Person for EJB to maintain regular
contact with project agencies and provide advice and guidance as required. The Lead Person also carried
out brief site visits between main Bank missions to supervise progress of physical works.
44.    Supervision costs of about $0.5 million were appropriate, given the pilot nature of EJB, the
innovations introduced, and the project's complexity. An important factor to be borne in mind is the large
size of the project - about the equivalent of two to three typical sectoral projects.
F. Borrower Performance
45.    Borrower performance in EJB has to be assessed in the context of the operationalization of a new
concept over three levels of government, spread over a wide geographical setting, in seven sectors. On
balance, Borrower performance was considered satisfactory, both in preparation and implementation
Provincial and local governments, in general, were able to handle the additional responsibilities transferred
to them, albeit with significant consultant support; local government performance, understandably, varied
considerably. Central government agencies did not always recognize the importance of providing guidance,
direction, and mentoring to provincial and local governments in the new decentralized environment.
46.    Some of the problems encountered during implementation were generic to urban services in the
developing world, e.g., need for further improvement in 0 & M, and difficulties in ensuring full cost



10
recovery for water supply. Others were generic to the Indonesia portfolio, e.g., excessive delays in selection
of consultants and ineffective consultant management. The generally positive response of most key
government officials to specific cases of concern - be it sub-project appraisal, procurement, construction
quality, 0 & M, need for improved environmental management - provided room for guarded optimism on
most such matters. However, these issues require on-going attention from government. Institutionalizing
these matters and demonstrating improved results under BUIP and EJ2 will be a key challenge for GOI.
47.    As shown in Table 10, compliance with loan covenants was generally satisfactory. Inadequate
appreciation of, and insufficient commitment to, the financial covenants in water supply on the part of the
heads of local governments and the local legislatures, and lack of direction and enforcement from central
government, appear to be the main reason for the partial compliance (i.e., full compliance by only some of
the participating PDAMs) in this key area.
48.    Government agencies (mainly at the central level) were unable to meet agreed target dates for the
selection and mobilization of consultants for the 33 TA packages in EJB. Managemnent of TA also needed
improvement.
G. Assessment of Outcome
49.    Project outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The project achieved most of its stated objectives (see
Section B), in particular, the overarching objective of a paradigm shift (articulated in the Policy Statement)
from central to local responsibility for urban infrastructure. Physical investments under the project have
adequate rates of return. Sustainability of project benefits is, however, uncertain in the short run in view of
the severe adverse changes in the country's macroeconomic situation (see Section D).
H. Future Operation
50.    Assets created by EJB will be operated and maintained by the respective local governments and
PDAMs. Bank supervision missions for the two follow-on projects will monitor progress on performance
indicators developed for these projects which, inter alia, address issues such as water supply finance, 0 &
M, local government capacity, which are relevant to EJB.
51.    EJB and four other Bank IUIDP projects - the Sulawesi Irian Jaya Urban Development Project; the
Surabaya Urban Development Project; the Semarang Surakarta Urban Development Project; and the
Kalimantan Urban Development Project - constitute the cohort of five first generation Bank IUIDP projects
in Indonesia. These projects together provide the Bank a unique opportunity to assess the impact of IUIDP
in a variety of large and small urban settings across Indonesia, and in projects of differing technical
sophistication and geographic spread. OED may, therefore, consider conducting an impact evaluation study
of these projects in the year 2,001 (by which time all these projects would have closed) along the lines of its
1995 study on KIP, entitled, "Indonesia: Impact Evaluation Report, Enhancing the Quality of life in Urban
Indonesia, the Legacy of the Kampung Improvement Programn" (Report No. 1 4747-IND). If agreement can
be reached with the ADB, the study could be conducted jointly with ADB and could include ADB projects
as well.
I. Key Lessons Learned
52.    EJB made a signal contribution in operationalizing the decentralization objectives of GOI's Urban
Policy Statement. The IUIDP approach was a major departure from earlier sectoral approaches to



II
addressing urban infrastructure services. It recognized that urban management is necessarily multi-sectoral
and complex, and attempted to get urban managers to prepare PJMs for urban infrastructure sectors by
allocating the available limited resources optimally between sectors. In practice, while integrated planning
made a good start at the global (i.e., citywide) level, at the detail level planning remained sectoral. A further
drawback was the inadequate attention to preparing sectoral master plans as the basis for investment
programs, and a tendency to focus instead on short term needs on an ad hoc basis. Finally, as anticipated in
the SAR, EJB did not advance the sectoral agenda in the individual sectors, water supply being a noteworthy
example.
53.    The key issue for the future is to determine the optimal packaging of urban infrastructure
investments as Bank projects. The lessons for future Bank project interventions flow from the lending
strategy articulated in the SAR (paragraph 2.25) and EJB experience, highlighted in the mid-term review.
Programmatic lending operations would be appropriate for selected areas with adequate institutional
capacities, and projects with a more focused approach on some sectors would be more appropriate either
where institutional capacities are too weak for programmatic lending (e.g., Eastern Indonesia) or where the
sub-sectoral requirements are large and complex (e.g., metro Jakarta). Taken together with the EJB
experience on geographic dispersion, this would argue for future urban projects in the following categories:
(a) Programmatic packages, limited to the smaller urban centers in at most a single province.
(b) Projects for municipal local governments of the larger cities (kotamadya) and the surrounding
peri-urban districts (kabupatens).
(c) Sectoral projects in the larger metropolitan centers, e.g., Jakarta, Surabaya, Medan, Bandung,
based on overall infrastructure development plans of the metro city.
54.    Municipal development projects, focusing on capacity building for urban management and
improved infrastructure service delivery in sectors under direct local government management, would likely
be the appropriate vehicles for projects described in paragraph 53 (a) and (b).
55.    Water supply. Water supply presents an interesting special case. Now that the decentralization of
investment programs from Cipta Karya to the PDAMs has largely been achieved through EJB (and
subsequent urban projects), it is time to focus on the major reform agenda for the sector to improve
(efficiency of) service delivery - institutional changes, financing options, private sector participation -
outlined in the 1997 Bank paper (Indonesia: Urban Water Supply Policy Framework) and adopted by GOI.
This would be best achieved through free standing water supply projects. (Other sectors with potential for at
least partial cost recovery, e.g., solid waste management, sewerage, would over time, also benefit from a
sectoral approach.)
56.    Other lessons from EJB include: (a) continuation of efforts to strengthen local government financial
management by requiring them to finance future urban infrastructure investments through a combination of
funds from own revenues, and central government grants and soft loans, complemented by local government
borrowing at rates progressively linked to the market; (b) providing incentives for improving 0 & M on the
ground, by instituting national and/or provincial level awards for 0 & M (similar to the current Adipura
awards), citizen score cards on services, etc. under future projects; (c) requiring a stricter project focus for
TA, keeping the number of TA packages to an absolute minimum, and targeting selection of priority
consultants by loan effectiveness as a "quality at entry" performance indicator; and (d) continuing the
extensive use of RSI staff in all urban projects in Indonesia.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3304-IND)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial         Partial          Negligible      Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies            5                  5                  5                 X
Sector policies                   X                  E                                    E l
Financial objectives              E                  X                  5                 5
Institutional development          5                 X                 5                  5
Physical objectives                X                                    I--]              L i
Poverty reduction                                    L                  X                 El
Gender concerns                   Oi                 O                 O                  X
Other social objectives           Li                 El                 X                 [1
Environmental objectives          O                  X                  5                 O
Public sector management          5                  X                  5                 5
Private sector development        O                  5                  X                 5
Economic benefits                 5                  X                  E                 O
B. Project Sustainability       Likely            Unlikely          Uncertain
Oi                El                 x
C. Bank Performance             Highly
Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                    L                  X                  E
Preparation assistance            5                  X                 5
Appraisal                         Fl                 X                 LI
Supervision                       X                  Li                El
D. Borrower Performance         Highly
Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                       5                  X                  5
Implementation                    5                  X                  El
Covenant compliance               5                  X                 O
Operation                         5                  X                  5
E. Assessment of outcome        Highly                                                  Highly
Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient      Unsatisfactory
Li                 x                 OI                I



13
Table 2: Related Urban and Water Supply Bank Loans
Loan/credit title                          Purpose                             Year of  Status
approval
Preceding
operations*
Fourth Urban       To implement a nationwide KIP, a sites and services program, and to  1981    Closed
Development Project strengthen the management capabilities of Bank Tabungan Negara
(Loan 1972-IND)    (BTN) and PERUMNAS.
Fifth Urban        To improve basic urban services and strengthen municipal administration   1984    Closed|
Development Proje(ct in the project cities (Surabaya, Semarang, Surakarta, and Ujung Pandang)
(Loan 2408-IND)    and augment the capacity for local resource mobilization.
Housing Sector Loan To expand access to housing finance for low and middle income  1986    Closed
(Loan 2725- IND)   households; to reduce overall subsidies to the lowest income groups; to
reduce the reliance of the housing finance system on government funds
and introduce new instruments for resource mobilization; to stimulate the
production of more low cost housing by both public and private
developers; to generate employment and to strengthen BTN and
PERUMNAS.
Urban Sector Loan   To carry out GOI's FY87/88 and FY88/89 urban infrastructure    1987    Closed
(Loan 2816-IND)    expenditure program; to strengthen sector institutions and procedures; to
improve local resource mobilization; and to increase the responsibilities
of local governments for urban infrastructure planning, financing and
implementation.                                                                l
Regional Cities    To implement a program for relieving traffic congestion and promote  1987    Closed
Urban Transport   transport efficiency; to strengthen city govermment capabilities in the
Project            planning, implementation, and maintenance of traffic and transport
(Loan 2817-IND)    facilities; and to establish a process of coordinating the investment
activities of central, provincial and city government agencies in urban
transport programs.
Jabotabek Urban    To provide technical assistance for institutional development and training   1988    Closed
Development Project in urban management; and physical works for road improvement and
(Loan 2932-IND)    construction.
SecondJabotabek    To develop and implement a coordinated program of physical      1990    Closed
Urban Development investments, technical assistance and policies for urban water supply,
Project            wastewater disposal, drainage and water resources management in
(Loan 3219-IND)    Jabotabek.
Third Jabotabek    To introduce a more effective and sustainable approach to provision of  1991    Active
Urban Development basic services in Jabotabek through extensive community participation in
Project            recognized low-income urban communities; to strengthen environmental
(Loan 3246-IND)    protection and pollution control in the Jakarta region; and to improve
maintenance of existing infrastructure networks and provide a firmer
_   basis to plan future development priorities.
Following projects
Sulawesi - Irian Jaya To provide urban infrastructure in selected cities in Sulawesi and Irian  1991    Closed
Urban Development Jaya with increase in access of households to water supply and sanitation
Project            services; to support improved infrastructure programming and financial
(Loan 3340-IND)    planning in these cities; to encourage local governments and water
enterprises in revenue generation and improved financial management.



14
Table 2 (Cont'd)
Loanlcredit title                           Purpose                              Year of   Status
approval         l
Surabaya Urban     To improve: urban service levels and affordability, particularly for the  1994    Active
Development Project poor in Surabaya; productivity and the effectiveness of investments
(Loan 3726-IND)    through better infrastructure planning and management, revenue
mobilization, project implementation and O&M; environmental quality
by enhancing local government capacity to plan, implement and operate
infrastructure in an environmentally sound fashion and also by enhancing
community participation.
Semarang-Surakarta To improve the provision of urban infrastructure services and the  1994    Active
Urban Development efficiency of the urban investments in Semarang-Surakarta; to promote
Project            stronger, more autonomous, and financially more independent municipal
(Loan 3749-IND)    governments; and to contribute towards poverty alleviation, mainly
through better access to essential services and an improved urban
environment.
Kalimantan Urban   In the five cites of Banjarmasin, Balikpapan, Palangkaraya, Pontianak,  1995    Active
Development Project and Samarinda and their respective Water Enterprises (PDAMs), the
(Loan 3854-IND)    project will improve the provision of urban infrastructure services and
the efficiency of the urban investments; promote stronger, more
autonomous, and financially more independent municipal governments;
contribute towards poverty reduction, mainly through better access to
essential services; and improve the environment.
Second East Java    To improve the provision of urban services to more than 5 million  1996    Active
Urban Development residents of urban areas in East Java Province (excluding the city of
Project            Surabaya) through appropriate investments in physical infrastructure; to
(Loan 4017- IND)    strengthen operations and maintenance activities for urban services, and
support improved planning, programming, budgeting, financial
management and local revenue generation by local governments; and to
improve urban environment management and reduce environmental
impacts.
Second Sulawesi    To improve the delivery of urban infrastructure services for about 3.6  1997    Active
Urban Development million residents in 41 towns and cities of 40 local governments of the
Project            four Sulawesi provinces through appropriate investments in physical
(Loan 4105-IND)    infrastructure; to strengthen O&M activities for urban services, and
support improved planning, programming, budgeting, financial
management and local revenue generation by local governments; and to
improve urban environmental management and reduce enviromnental
impacts.
Bali Urban         Improve urban infrastructure services in Bali in a sustainable manner to  1997    Active
Infrastructure Project meet: (i) basic needs in all important urban centers and (ii) the needs for
(Loan 4155-IND)    growing urbanization in south Bali as a result of tourism and other
economic activities.
*Preceding projects are those within the ten year limit.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned          Date actual/atest estimate
Identification (IEPS)                         01/88                     06/20/89
Preparation (FEPS)                            01/90                     02/21/90
Appraisal                                     06/90                     06/26/90
Negotiations                                  08/90                     02/21/91
Board presentation                            10/90                     03/19/91
Signing                                       06/90                     05/03/91
Effectiveness                                 06/91                     06/25/91
Project completion                           08/31/96                   05/31/97
Loan closing                                 12/31/96                   09/30/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank FY                   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95    FY96  FY97 FY98
Appraisal estimnate         3.5    31.9    71.4   111.7   152.2    180.3  180.3  180.3
Actual                      5.5     10.9    41.1    78.3   116.0   148.4  171.2  173.0
Actual as % of estimate     157     34.0    57.6    70.1    76.2       82.3   95.0  96.0
ate of final disbursement                         February 9, 1998



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Project Description               i Measurements   Targeted    Achieved
I. East Java Province
Water Supply
Well/Deep well                                     unit                     3            11
Water treatment Plant                              unit                     4             I
Reservoir                                          unit                     3            12
Installation of Transmission Pipes                 km                      1.4           48
Installation of Distribution Pipes                 km                      90          379
Installation of House connection                   unit                 11,237        8,580
Installation of Public Hydrant                     unit                    56            10
Water Pump                                         unit                     8            17
Urban Roads
Construction of New Roads                          km                     141           92
Upgrading of Roads (Widening)                      km                    1,557         975
Rehabilitation (Overlay & Repair)                  km                     524           135
Construction, Replacement of Bridge/Culvert        km                     53.5         25.1
Drainage
Construction of New Drains                         km                     203           150
Normalization of Canal                             km                     315           117
Rehabilitation of Drains                           km                      85            52
Maintenance of Drains                              km                     254            79
Solid Waste
Waste Disposal Site                                square meter         84,270       26,392
Transport Depot                                    unit                   774           106
Sanitation
Land acquisition                                   square meter         10,115        3,465
Sewerage Treatment Station                         unit                     8             -
New Sanitation Facilities                          unit                  2565          1267
Rehabilitation of Sanitation Facilities            unit                  5977         2463
KIP/MIIP
Area Covered                                       hectare               4389         7694



17
Table 5 (cont'd)
Project Description             | Measurements   Targeted       Achievedl
HI. Bali Province                                   l
Water Supply
Installation of Main Pipe                       km                      315          255
Installation of Service Pipe                     mn.                    245          180
Installation of House Connections               unit                 21,575        12,900
Installation of Public Tap                      unit                    133          120
Increase of Reservoir Capacity                  cubic meter          15,000        15,000
Construction of Building                        square meter          5,750        4,750
Urban Roads
Construction of New Roads                       km                     44.6           34
Upgrading of Roads (Widening)                   km                      252          240
Rehabilitation (overlay & Repair)               km                       49           40
Drainage
Construction of New Drains                      km                       85           82
Upgrading of Drains (Enlarging)                 km                       30           30
Rehabilitation of Drains                        km                       38           35
Solid Waste
Land Acquisition                                hectare                  54            4
Sanitation
Land Acquisition                                hectare                   5            -
Construction of Sludge Disposal Site            square meter          2,000         2,000
Construction of Sanitation Facilities           unit                     10           10
KIP/MIIP
Area Covered                                    hectare               1,163         1020
Source: PPMU Report, 1995



18
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation
A. Main Achievements of Participating PDAMs
Days                                 Debt   Debt to
Volume  Volume         Service Number  Staff  Accounts Average Working Operating  Service   Debt +
of     per
PDAM               Year      Produced  S o I d   %    Ratio  Connect  1000  Receivable  Tariff   Ratio     Ratio   Coverage  Equity
UfW            ions   Conn
Mm3    Mm3                                              (Rp/m3)
East Java Province
Batch I
Kabupaten Banyuwangi  1996 SAR        3.913    3.131   20%    34%    9,800    11         60      293      62%       91%       1.8      49%
1996 Actual   5.209    3.859  26%    nd    12,396    13         47       516      63%      100%       2.3     69%
Kabupaten Jember        1996 SAR      3.891    2.926  25%    31%    12,300    10        60       610      50%       57%       1.5      59%
1996 Actual   5.186    4.068  22%    nd    16,847    7          65       434    113%       145%      -1.2     73%
Kotamadya Kediri        1996 SAR       1.594    1.192  25%    4%      2,900    22        79      644      51%       64%       1.6      50%
1996 Actual   2.659    1.892  29%    nd    7,775        9       91       677      88%      116%      3.1      81%
Kotamadya Mojokerto    1996 SAR        1.192    0.890  25%    16%    3,260    13         68      561      56%       83%       2.5      48%
1996 Actual   1.390    0.796  43%      nd     4,953    12       235      296      60%      98%        na      47%
Kotamadya Probolinggo   1996 SAR       2.135    1.708  20%    5%      4,500    14        65      406      69%       85%       1.6      45%
1996 Actual   2.464    2.070  16%    nd       7,102    10       93       493      60%      92%        na      62%
Kabupaten Sidoarjo      1996 SAR      11.855   9.398  21%    52%    28,880    10         60      746      63%       79%       5.9      52%
1996 Actual   7.932    5.649  29%   21%    19,794    12         71      1,459    100%      117%      57.5     46%
Kabupaten Sumenep       1996 SAR       2.726    2.052  25%    33%    4,590    17         65      450      56%       78%       1.4      56%
1996 Actual   2.363    1.765  25%    48%    7,342       9       87       321      71%      100%       na      58%
Batch II
Kabupaten Bangkalan    1996 SAR        2.146    2.241  21%    63%    8,640    103        66       638     57%       81%       2.6      29%
1996 Actual   1.911    IA18  26%   45%    8,027    14           76        778     44%      99%        4.7     60%
Kotamadya Blitar        1996 SAR       1.988    1.312  34%   36%    8,500    11          50       573     65%      103%       na       42%
1996 Actual   1.492    1.063  29%    3d       6,623    15       283      502      46%      82%       151.0    76%
Kabupaten Gresik        1996 SAR      17.169   13.401  22%        33%    35,290    11    32      1,664    88%       97%       3.1      20%
1996 Actual   1.965    1.479  25%    nd       8,577    10       24       1,531    50%      73%        1.4     64%
Kabupaten Jombang       1992 Actual    1.194    1.015  15%    24%    4,478    1 1       253      249      52%      113%       na       3%
1996 Actual   2.068    1.638  21%   30%    7,266        7       60       393      65%      130%       na      64%
Kabupaten Lumajang      1996 SAR       3.952    2.852  28%    33%    10,200    13        62      660      57%       74%       na       65%
1996 Actual   2.898    2.230  23%    nd    9,694    18          103      544      69%      136%       0.7     79%
Kotamadya Pasuruan      1992 Actual   4.624    2.897  37%    nd    11,698    9           98      294      67%       91%       na       6%
1996 Actual   4.737    2.620  45%   43%    12,571    10         113      733      71%      100%       6.1     20%
Kabupaten Situbondo     1996 SAR       3.393    2.644  22%    28%    14,100    9         47      499      55%       90%       0.6      39%f
1996 Actual   3.638    2.774  24%   70%    13,175    7          43       437      62%      115%       2.2     46%
Note: nd = No data



19
Table 6A (cont'd)
1      1                             J  Days                                  Debt   Debt to
Volume  Volume         Service Number  Staff  Accounts Average Working Operating  Service   Debt +
PDAM               Year      Produced  S o I d   %    Ratio  Connect  1000  Receivable  Tariff   Ratio     Ratio   Coverage  Equity
UfW            ions   Conn
Mm3    Mm3                                           _  (Rp/m3)
_                       -    ~~~~~~~~~B a I i Provinc e
Batch I
Kabupaten Badung        1996 SAR      24.885   19.908  20%   46%    25,500    14         60       677     38%       55%       2.2      62%
1996 Actual  24.847   16.960  32%   72%    42,462    8          18       782      64%      100%      2.6      74%
Kabupaten Buleleng      1996 SAR       5.800    4.597  21%    55%    11,320    12        60       569     38%       48%       3.8      62%
1996 Actual   6.334    5.289  17%   89%    17,523    11         60       540      87%      109%      0.5      64%
Kabupaten Jembrana      1996 SAR       1.936    1.489  23%    43%    5,390    13         60      450      70%       98%       na       0%
1996 Actual   2.697    1.535  43%   89%    8,471    12          45       708    163%       239%       na       2%
Kabupaten Klungkung    1996 SAR        1.765    1.412  20%    23%    4,770    11         60       676     48%       61%       4.3      0%
1996 Actual   2.469    1.866  24%    nd       9,259    11       50       360    263%       367%       na      41%
Batch II
Kabupaten Bangli        1992 Actual    1.215    0.795  35%    66%    2,526    25         82       198     60%      142%       na       20%
1996 Actual   2.970    1.293  56%   77%    6,319    21          59       679    226%       383%       na      35%
Kabupaten Gianyar       1992 Actual     nd       nd     nd     nd    9,056    14         53       nd      64%      109%       na        1%
1996 Actual   6.419    4.996  24%   99%    21,516    8          55       649      84%      132%       5.6     51%
Kabupaten Karangasem   1992 Actual    1.837    1.364  26%    58%    3,848    17         183       151     73%      143%       na       0%
1996 Actual   3.848    2.879  25%   84%    6,422    24          87       270    150%       198%       0.4     12%
Kabupaten Tabanan       1992 Actual    3.323    2.531   25%    63%    11,367    12       95       327     60%      111%       na       68%
1996 Actual   4.743    3.673  25%   88%    20,385    11         52       595    128%       167%      -1.0     61%
Note: nd = No data



20
Attachment to Table 6A
Main Achievements of Participating PDAMs
1.    Twenty two PDAMs participated in the project - fourteen in East Java and eight in Bali. The value of
investments in the majority of participating PDAMs was quite small; only five PDAMs - Sidoarjo and Gresik in
East Java, and Badung, Klungkung, and Gianyar in Bali - had project investments in excess of $3 million. The
project did not finance PDAM Surabaya's investments, as the proposal to bring water for Surabaya from
Umbulan Springs was deferred and a subsequent separate project (Surabaya Urban Development Project - Loan
3726) financed the rest of PDAM Surabaya's investment program. Funding for the project's water supply
investments was provided by a combination of sources - internal cash generation, sub-loans from the proceeds of
EJB loan, and other local borrowing.
2.    In general, all participating PDAMs exceeded SAR targets for water production and number of
connections - Sidoarjo and Gresik in East Java were exceptions, as they did not receive water that was expected
from Umbulan Springs. (The transmission main from Umbulan Springs, which was to be financed from a
separate - private - source, has not yet been built.) Targets for unaccounted for water (UFW) were met by only
some of the PDAMs. Several PDAMs achieved the target staffing ratio of 10 staff per 1000 connections,
although there were a few who did not.
3.    Financial matters. Compliance with financial covenants on cost recovery, debt service coverage, and
leverage was unsatisfactory. Most PDAMs met the first loan covenant of recovering 0 & M costs. However, at
the end of 1996, only nine out of twenty two achieved the target of full cost recovery (O & M plus depreciation).
These results are similar to the findings of the Project Completion Report for the Second East Java Water Supply
Project (Report No. 13637, dated October 26, 1994), which found that only two of thirteen East Java PDAMs
participating in that project recovered 0 & M and depreciation in 1993. Four PDAMs failed to meet the debt
service coverage ratio requirement of 1.3 and five PDAMs exceeded the ratio of debt to debt plus equity of 0.7.
4.    The principal issue in this regard was the low tariff levels and the inability of the PDAMs to increase
tariffs to the required levels. An inadequate appreciation on the part of PDAMs and their local governments of
the requirements of the financial covenants, the several levels of approvals required, and the absence of any
disincentives for failure to increase tariffs, all contributed to the problem. Tariff increases required in 1992 were
delayed, and by the time of the mid-term review in 1994, at least five participating PDAMs did not cover 0 & M
expenses. Results summarized in Para. 3 above reflect the efforts of various Bank missions in over coming the
problems described above. Tariff increases from a very low base in most cases were too little and too late.
5.    Future Remedial Action. In the case of Bali, Financial Recovery Action Plans (FRAPs) have been agreed
with five PDAMs under BUIP, which inter alia, include full compliance with EJB financial covenants, including
cost recovery. The performance of the remaining three PDAMs will also be monitored by the government and
the Bank to ensure that EJB financial covenants are met during the life of BUIP. In the case of East Java, six
PDAMs which participated in EJB are also participants in EJ2; their performance, as well as that of the remaining
eight participants in EJB, towards meeting EJB financial covenants will be monitored by government and the
Bank.



21
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation
B. Revenue Improvement Action Plan Results
Growth Rate 1995/96-1996/97
Local Government                          Targeted                      Realized
East Java Province
Batch I
Kotamadya Kediri                                     18.0%                        25.2%
Kotamadya Mojokerto                                  17.3%                        26.4%
Kotamadya Pasuruan                                   19.7%                        34.9%
Kotamadya Probolinggo                                14.8%                        6.4%
Kabupaten Banyuwangi                                 14.2%                        28.1%
Kabupaten Jember                                     13.3%                        32.6%
Kabupaten Lamongan                                   13.6%                        17.8%
Kabupaten Sidoarjo                                   20.3%                        44.5%
Kabupaten Sumenep                                    15.1%                        63.8%
Batch II
Kotamadya Blitar                                     17.7%                        18.8%
Kotamadya Madiun                                     12.8%                        34.1%
Kabupaten Bangkalan                                  -9.7%                        30.4%
Kabupaten Bojonegoro                                 12.8%                        41.0%
Kabupaten Gresik                                     12.1%                        53.6%
Kabupaten Jombang                                    19.0%                        40.9%
Kabupaten Lumajang                                   14.7%                        25.8%
Kabupaten Malang                                     11.4%                        32.5%
Kabupaten Pasuruan                                   12.7%                        33.5%
Kabupaten Ponorogo                                   13.3%                        25.1%
Kabupaten Situbondo                                  14.0%                        10.5%
Kabupaten Tuban                                      15.6%                        51.4%
Kabupaten Tulungagung                                12.1%                        45.6%
Batch III                                                   .
Kotamadya Malang                                     20.4%                        26.5%
Kabupaten Pacitan                                    13.6%                        43.6%
Kabupaten Magetan                                    12.1%                        51.5%
Kabupaten Ngawi                                      15.5%                        28.5%
Kabupaten Pamekasan                                  23.2%                        20.4%
Kabupaten Sampang                                     3.0%0     -                 13.8%
Kabupaten Kediri                                     11.4%                        37.4%
Kabupaten Blitar                                     18.9%                        30.1%
Kabupaten Madiun                                     26.9%                        26.5%
Kabupaten Probolinggo                                16.6%                        18.8%
Kabupaten Bondowoso                                  15.2%                        36.6%
Kabupaten Mojokerto                                  13.9%                        33.8%
Kabupaten Trenggalek                                 16.1%                        21.7%
Kabupaten Nganjuk                                    13.7%                        29.1%



22
Table 6B (cont'd)
Bali Province
Batch I                                                                                        l
Kabupaten Badung                                    18.7%                       17.5%
Kabupaten Buleleng                                  20.0%                       23.8%
Kabupaten Jembrana                                  21.8%                       21.5%
Kabupaten Klungkung                                 16.8%                       20.4%
Kotamadya Denpasar                                  17.6%                       24.7%
Batch II
Kabupaten Bangli                                    17.3%                       24.9%
Kabupaten Gianyar                                   16.6%                       12.1%
Kabupaten Karangasem                                10.7%                       24.4%
Kabupaten Tabanan                                   14.1%                       36.9%



23
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation
C. Operations & Maintenance Expenditures of Local Governments
PJM         Implemented       Change         % Change
Local Government                Rp million      Rp million     Rp million    Implmented/PJM
East Java Province
Batch I
Kotamadya Kediri                  3,390            4,274            884             26.10
Kotamadya Mojokerto               2,285            3,100            815             35.60
Kotamadya Pasuruan                2,507            1,258          -1,249           -49.80
Kotamadya Probolinggo             2,176            2,736            560             25.70
Kabupaten Banyuwangi              2,805            7,906           5,101           181.80
Kabupaten Jember                  4,721            3,377          -1344            -28.50
Kabupaten Lamongan                 1,287           1,550            263             20.40
Kabupaten Sidoarjo                2,250            2,931            681             30.30
Kabupaten Sumenep                  1,582           2,284            702             44.40
Batch II                                _                   _
Kotamadya Blitar                   1,332           2,143            813             61.00
Kotamadya Madiun                  3,030            2,005          -1,025           -33.80
Kabupaten Bangkalan                 781            1,159            378             48.40
Kabupaten Bojonegoro               1,182           1,409            227             19.20
Kabupaten Gresik                   1,354           1,446             92              6.80
Kabupaten Jombang                  1,582           2,188            606             38.30
Kabupaten Lumajang                 1,427           1,923            496             34.80
Kabupaten Malang                    691            1,837           1,146           165.90
Kabupaten Pasuruan                  822            1,969           1,147           139.60
Kabupaten Ponorogo                2,560            2,516            -44             -1.70
Kabupaten Situbondo                 858            2,049           1,191           138.80
Kabupaten Tuban                    1,284           1,836            552             43.00
Kabupaten Tulungagung              1,592           2,147            555             34.80
Batch III                    _
Kotamadya Malang                  3,654            4,396            743             20.32
Kabupaten Pacitan                   700             446            -254            -36.31
Kabupaten Magetan                   244            4,434          4,190           1717.30
Kabupaten Ngawi                     617            1,007            390             63.16
Kabupaten Pamekasan               10,912            432          -10,480           -96.04
Kabupaten Sampang                 8,395              576          -7,818           -93.13
Kabupaten Kediri                    737              586           -151            -20.46
Kabupaten Blitar                    420            1,149            728            173.19
Kabupaten Madiun                    627              527           -101            -16.08
Kabupaten Probolinggo               103              582            479            463.79
Kabupaten Bondowoso                 273             483             211             77.33
Kabupaten Mojokerto                 894              339           -555            -62.09
Kabupaten Trenggalek                447              661            214             47.83
Kabupaten Nganjuk                 3,109              807         -2,302            -74.05



24
Table 6C (cont'd)
Local Government                  PJM         Implemented       Change          % Change
Rp million      Rp million     Rp million  FImplmented/PJM
Bali Province
Batch I
Kabupaten Badung                 9,545            7,564           -1,981          -20.80
Kabupaten Buleleng                1,511           3,458            1,947          128.90
Kabupaten Jembrana               2,288            1,557            -731           -31.90
Kabupaten Klungkung                873            1,063             190            21.80
Kotamadya Denpasar                 710             798               88            12.40
Batch II
Kabupaten Bangli                   799              867              68             8.50
Kabupaten Gianyar                 1,698           1,899             201            11.80
Kabupaten Karangasem              1,299           1,629             330            25.40
Kabupaten Tabanan                 1,665           2,559             894            53.70



25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study/Technical Assistance          Purpose as defined at          Status        Impact of study/technical assistance    Assessment of
appraisal/redefined                                                               outcome
I Local Government Financial      Local government financial        Completed     Design and pilot testing were behind   Unsatisfactory
Accounting and Management      accounting and management reform                 schedule, but field testing in East Java and
Reform                                                                          Bali was not followed through.
2 Preparation of PJM for          Support for preparation of PJM for    Completed  Contributed to the preparation of the  Satisfactory
Kotamadya Malang               Malang city                                      Second East Java Urban Development
Project (EJ2).
3 Preparation of PJM for Batch III   Batch III program preparation and  Completed  Contributed to the preparation of EJ2.  Unsatisfactory
Local Governments              related start-up support
4 Finalization of Loan Proposal   Finalization of loan proposal     Completed      Assisted in preparing KUDP.            Satisfactory
Documentation and Appraisal    documentation and appraisal support
Support for Kalimantan Urban   for KUDP
Development Project (KUDP)
5 Preparation of Water Supply     TA for SUDP-II preparation for water  Completed  Assisted in preparing SUDP-II.         Satisfactory
Sector for Second Sulawesi Urban  supply sector (extension of TA
Development Project (SUDP-II)   services)
6 Preparation of Future Project - EJ2  Project preparation of EJ2   Completed      Assisted in preparing EJ2.             Satisfactory
7 Preparation of Future Project -  Project preparation of BUIP      Completed      Assisted in preparing BUIP.            Satisfactory
Bali Urban Infrastructure Project
(BUIP)                                                                                        _



26
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US $ million)
Original                Actual / Latest _
I t e m                        Project Cost Estimate         Project Cost /c
Local Foreign   Total      Local Foreign   Total
A. Program Infrastructure Development and O&M
I Water Supply                                   53.7    42.8    96.5 /a    10.7   41.6    52.3
2 Drainage                                       16.6    7.1    23.7         18.6   25.0   43.6
3 Solid Waste Management                          9.7     3.6    13.3        6.3     5.5    11.8
4 Sanitation J Sewerage                           6.6    2.8      9.4        2.2     2.5    4.7
5 Urban Roads                                    62.3    26.8    89.1       60.4   61.7   122.1
6 Karnpung Improvement                            7.6    3.3    10.9         6.9     8.2    15.0l
7 Market Infrastructure Improvement               0.8     0.3     1.1        1.9     1.2    3.1
Subtotal, Program Infrastructure Investment  157.3    86.7  244.0 /b   106.9   145.6  252.5
80&M                                             69.3    26.9    96.2      106.1       -   106.1
Subtotal, Investment and O&M                 226.6   113.6   340.2      213.1   145.6  358.7
B.  Program Management                               7.5     5.9    13.4       17.5    11.0    28.5
C. Institutional Development                         2.9     4.0     6.9        8.9     6.4    15.2
Sector Development                             2.1     1.3   3.40         1.2    5.0      6.2
Municipal Management                           0.8     2.7    3.50        5.7     1.4    7.1
Total Project Cost                                 237.0   123.5  360.5       237.4   163.0  400.4
Interest During Construction
on Bank Loan                                     -    10.0    10.0        7.6       -     7.6
on Other Loans                                 2.9       -     2.9              -           -
Total Financing Required                           239.9   133.5  373.4       245.0   163.0   408.0
/a Includes $13.1 million for Umbulan Springs distribution pipeworks in Kotamadya Surabaya
/b Includes $13.1 million for contracted engineering design and supervision
/c Actual costs were converted to US$ based on the rate of rupiah to US$ at December 31 of each year



27
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Project Financing Plan       Actual Project Financing I
I t e m                            Amount   % Project % Loan       Amount  % Project % Loan
Regional Level Financing
Local Governments
Borrowing                                              12.4 Ia    3.3%                   8.1   2.0%
Local Revenues and Property Tax Share                 46.4       12.4%                  34.2   8.5%
INPRES Development Grants                             23.7       6.3%                   72.2  17.7%
SDO Routine Staff Salary Grant                         2.4       0.6%                    8.3   2.0%
Water Enterprises
Borrowing for Investment                              47.9 lb,c  12.8%                  51.9  12.7%
Internal Financing for O&M and Investment             69.3       18.6%                  76.8  18.8%
Provincial Government Direct Funding                      13.1      3.5%                    8.3   2.0%
Other                                                      6.9      1.8%                      -   0.0%
. Subtotal, Regional Level                               222.1       59.5%                 259.8  63.7%
Central Level Financing
Central Level Responsibilities                            75.4 Id   20.2%                  81.9  20.1%
Regional Level Responsibilities                           75.9      20.3%                  66.4  16.1%
Subtotal, Central Level                                  151.3      40.5%                 148.2  36.3%
TOTAL FINANCING                                             373.4 le   100.0%                 408.0  100.0%
Donor Funding
Bank Loan (69.1% Eligible Amount)                        180.3 If   48.3%                 173.0  42.4%      100.0%
Japanese Grant                                            4.2       1.1%                    4.2   1.0%
Subtotal                                                 184.5      49.4%   100.0%        177.2  43.4%
Distributed As:
Subsidiary Loans
Water Enterprises                              38.4               21.3%         38.0             22.0%
Local Governments                              11.1               6.2%           6.8              2.2%
Central Grants-in-kind                                                                     -
Central Responsibilities                       59.1 Ig            30.4%          63.8            36.9%
Regional Responsibilities                      75.9               42.1%          68.6            38.9%
Regional Level Domestic Funding                             161.9                             212.8
Central GOI Domestic Funding                                 27.0                              18.1
TOTAL                                                       373.4 le                          408.0
/a Including Rp 5. I billion ($2.7 million equivalent) borrowing interest during construction
/b Including Rp 23.4 billion ($12.3 million equivalent) borrowing by PDAM Surabaya for Umbulan Springs distribution pipeworks
/c Including Rp 16.0 billion ($8.4 million equivalent) for interest on borrowing during construction
/d Including Rp 3.4 billion ($1.8 million equivalent) interest during construction (for domestic loan to PDAM Malang)
/e Including interest during construction of Rp 24.5 billion ($12.9 million equivalent)
/f For Bank loan calculation, eligible amount is total cost less taxes and duties, current O&M, land acquisition and interest during
construction (Rp 213.5 billion or $112.3 million equivalent)
2& Includes $4.2 million equivalent of Japan Grant Funds to GOI
/h Actual costs were converted based on conversion rate of rupiah to US$ at December 31 of each year



28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Sector          Sub-project                ICR Finding                 Appraisal          Comment
Size             Sample             EIRR             EIRR
1. Roads                  S                  0                NA              >10%        On technical criteria
East Java              M                 10               16-18%           >10%
Bali                   M                 10               12-20%           >10%        2@5%; 1@37%
2. Drainage               S                  0                NA              >10%        On technical criteria
East Java              M                  4               11-16%           >10%
Bali                   M                  5                >20%            >10%
3. Water Supply
East Java             All                All             >10%              >10%        3 Exceptions
Bali                  All                All         FIRR Negative         >10%        One at 22%
4. Other Sectors   Agreed technical criteria and at least cost solutions adopted. No calculation at appraisal and ICR.
Notes.
1. Sub-project size - (S)mall = investment costs < Rp.400 million
(M)edium = Rp.400 million < Investment costs < Rp.4 billion
(L)arge = Investment costs > Rp.4 billion
2. See attachment to Table 9 for further details, especially on comments.



29
Attachment to Table 9
Economic Costs and Benefits
Approach
1.    At appraisal, a structured approach was adopted to the economic analysis of the large number of
sub-projects in the various sectors. Economic viability of small sub-projects (cost below Rp.400 million,
in 1989 prices) was presumed, provided they followed the technical planning and design criteria agreed
with the Bank. Medium (between Rp. 400 million and Rp 4 billion in 1989 prices) and large sub-projects
(above Rp. 4 billion) in urban roads and drainage sectors would require economic analysis. Medium sub-
projects were subject to a simplified economic analysis, while large sub-projects had to go through a
more detailed analysis. Economic and / or financial analysis was required for all water supply projects.
An economic internal rate of return of 10% was adopted as the cut off rate in all cases. Economic
benefits of human waste and solid waste management sub-projects were not quantified; sub-projects were
selected on the basis of least cost solutions, appropriate to local conditions. Sub-projects in the KIP and
MIIP sectors were small, and were evaluated purely on technical criteria and appropriateness to local
conditions.
2.    Economic analysis carried out at project completion adopted an approach that was consistent with
criteria used at appraisal.
Urban Roads and Drainage
3.    East Java. In East Java, there was one large urban road sub-project, and 69 medium sub-
projects, totaling about Rp.62 billion and accounting for 20% of the total costs of urban road and drainage
sub-projects; the remaining sub-projects were small. As these small sub-projects were designed based on
agreed technical standards, their economic viability was presumed. 10 urban roads and 4 drainage sub-
projects, with a total cost of at about Rp. 11 billion, were re-evaluated under the simplified economic
analysis. Estimated savings in vehicle operating costs were taken as the benefits from the urban road
sub-projects, while the increases in rental land prices were used as a proxy for benefits from drainage
sub-projects. The EIRR for urban road sub-projects ranged from 16% to 38%, while the EIRR for the
drainage sub-projects were between 11-16 %.
4.    Bali. [n Bali, there were no large urban road or drainage sub-projects. There were 47 medium
sub-projects, totaling about Rp.28 billion and accounting for 35% of the total costs of urban road and
drainage sub-projects. The remaining sub-projects were small, and were designed and implemented as
per agreed technical standards; as such, their economic viability was presumed. Among the completed
medium urban road and drainage sub-projects, 10 urban roads and 5 drainage sub-projects, with total
costs at Rp. 13 billion, were re-evaluated using simplified economic analysis. The EIRR for the urban
road sub-projects were in the 12-20% range, with two outliers at 5% and one at 37%. The EIRR for the
drainage sub-projects were all above 20%.
5.    Summary. The majority of the investments (over 70%) in urban roads and drainage were small,
and their designs followed agreed technical standards; economic viability of these investments was
considered acceptable. Results from the re-evaluation of a sample of completed medium sub-projects in
the urban roads and drainage sectors indicate that the recalculated EIRRs were (with two outliers) above
the threshold of 10% and were economically acceptable.



30
Water Supply
6.    EastJava To examine economic viability ofthe water supply investments, economic analysis
was carried out to evaluate the water supply investments in the 14 East Java PDAMs. Incremental
benefits were cost savings from using piped water instead of well water and from consuming additional
volume of water, while incremental costs include investment costs and additional O&M costs. The
recalculated EIRRs of 11 of 14 PDAMs was in excess of 10% and above appraisal estimates. in the case
of Sidoarjo and Gresik, the recalculated EIRRs were negative as the project investments did not receive
anticipated benefits (through numbers of connections and volume of water sold) from water from
Umbulan Springs as the required (non-project) investments were not made by government. Investments
in PDAM Kotamadya Blitar also had a negative EIRR, as the PDAM failed to meet the physical targets
for water production, sales, and connections by over 20%.
7.    Bali. To examnie financial viability of the water supply investments in Bali, financial analysis
was carried out. Incremental revenues were derived from the additional amount of water sold as a result
of the investments made, while incremental costs include investment costs and incremental O&M costs.
The recalculated FIRRs were all negative, except in the case of PDAM Badung, which had a 22% return.
These negative returns highlight the problem that the average tariffs were mostly below the average
operating costs.
8.    Although no economic analysis was carried out for Bali water supply investments at project
completion, they should be considered economically viable as physical targets set at appraisal e.g.,
number of connections, volume of water sold, unit operating costs (upon which the appraisal economic
analysis was based) were largely met.
9.     The follow-up Bali Urban Infrastructure Project (BUIP) has taken measures to address the
persistent problem of low tariffs and high O&M costs. All participating PDAMs (Karangasem, Tabanan,
Bangli, Gianyar) are required to: (a) raise tariffs by as much as 80% in 1997; (b) reduce operating costs
by limiting the number of staff; (c) facilitate increase in connections by providing credit (to low income
consumers) for new connections.
10.   A Financial Recovery Action Plan (FRAP), which has been agreed to as a loan covenant,
documents these agreements. Disbursements of loan funds for BUIP water supply investm-ents is
conditional on full implementation of the FRAP.
11.   Summary. The economic and financial re-evaluation at project completion indicate that:
(a) The majority of the water supply investments met the original physical targets, and were in
general economically acceptable. However, those investments that failed to meet some major targets
(especially volume of water sold) had negative returns.
(b) Where tariffs were below average O&M costs, the investments were not financially
sustainable. Tariff increases of appropriate amounts are urgently required in this regard.



31
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present
Agreement Section   type            status      Description of Covenant                                                                    Comments
Loan         2.02 (b)        1, 9        C      Open and maintain special account in dollars in BI and Operate per LA schedule 6
3.01 (a)       5, 9        C      Carry out project with due diligence with appropriate administrative, environmental and financial practices A
provide necessary funds and other required resources
3.01(b) (i)    5, 9        C      Carry out project in accordance with agreed provincial PIA's & Local PIA's satisfactory to the Bank
3.01 (b) (ii)    10, 9     C      Carry out project in accordance with implementation program, per LA Schedule 5
3.03 (a)      3, 5, 9     CD      Sign Subsidiary/Domestic/ Loan Agreement with participating local governments on terms agreed with the  SLAPs delayed
Bank, incorporating interest rate formulated from schedule 7 of LA
3.04          5 to 9       CD     Operate agreed appraisal process for all subprojects and programs                          Justification for variation provided
after some delay
3.05           2, 9        CP     Ensure PDAM revenues are retained during construction period                               Some PDAMS remitted funds to LGs
3.06           2,9      CD&CP  Prepare Action Plan & Schedule to convert BPAMs to PDAMs and adjust tariffs per 4.02          Tariff adjustments late and
insufficient
3.07           5, 9        C      Conduct comprehensive mid-term review of program & revise program
3.08           4, 9        C      Review previous year O&M expenditure & ensure levels reach 90% of agreed program, at minimum
3.09           1, 9        CD     Install project accounting/ monitoring system in each participating local government not later than 3 months Start-up delays exceeded three
after initial disbursement under local PIA                                                 months in most cases
4.01 (b) (i)   1, 9        C      Arrange for annual audits of all project accounts and provide unified project audit.
4.01 (b) (ii)   9          CD     Report to Bank not later than 9 months after FY closes                                     Some audit reports delayed
4.02 (a)       2, 9        CP     No PDAM debt coverage ratio shall be less than 1.3                                          Some PDAMs not in compliance
4.02 (b)       2, 9        CP     No PDAM debt shall be more than 70% of the total capitalization                             Some PDAMs not in compliance
4.02(c) (i)    2, 9        CP     Each BPAM & PDAM shall produce gross revenue not less than the sum of operating expenses   A few PDAMs not yet in compliance
4.02 (c) (ii)    2, 9      CP     Each BPAM & PDAM shall produce gross revenue not less than the sum of operating expenses and  Depreciation not fully covered in
depreciation                                                                               about 60% of cases
4.03           2, 9     CD&CP  (a) The Borrower shall cause each participating local government to review & adjust BPAM & PDAM tariff Complied partially, see above
to meet 4.02 by 4/1/92 and thereafter by 1/1/94 and 1/1/96 and (b) furnish to the Bank the result of such
review
4.04          2, 3, 9      C      No local government debt coverage ratio shall be less than 1.5 (excluding routine expenditure)
Compliance                                                                            Covenant type
C = Covenant complied with       I = Account/Audits                                        8 = Indigenous people
CD = Complied with after delay    2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries   9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
CP = Complied with partially      3 = flow and utilization of project funds                10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
NC = Not complied with            4 = Counterpart funding                                  II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants                             13 = other
7 = Involuntary resettlement
Note: After the financial statements of PDAMs is available these sections may be re-evaluated.



32
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                  Description and comment on lack of compliance
None                                        No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank
Operational Manual statements observed
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (Actual)
Stages of project cycle                   Staff weeks                   Amount US$('000)*
Through Appraisal                            159.9                             397.0
Appraisal - effectiveness                    30.2                              73.5
Supervision                                  177.4                             473.5
Completion                                    16.0                             44.6
TOTAL                                        383.5                             988.6
'Includes Travel expenses.



33
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stages of   Month/ No. of    SW  Specialized        Implement. Developt.                            Types of problems
project cycle  Year   persons   in  staff skills     status       impact
field represented
Identification/  02/16/88   5     NR  UM, FA, UP,
Preparation                        _  Ec, PS                        .
Preparation    06/26/88    6      NR  UM, UP, Ec, PS,
WSE, MF
Preparation    12/13/88    5      NR  UM, ME, UP,
FA, FA                                                                                                       l
Preparation    03/31/89    7      NR  UM, UP, FA(3),
.________  _____              M E, Ec
Pre-appraisal   07/24/89    8     NR  UM, Ec (2), UP,
FA (2), ME, PS
e-appraisal   11/30/89    7     NR  UM, UP, FA
(2), ME, Ec, PS                                                                                              l
Appraisal    04/06/90    11    NR  UM, UP, FA
(2), ME, Ec (2),
PS, EvS (2), SS                                                                                               l
Pre-negotiation 12/06/90    7     NR  UM, UP, FA
(2), PS, DO(2)
Supervision I  06/15/91     6     NR  UM, ME, OMS,          2           1    Mobilization of TA (including final TOR) was behind schedule. Continued
PS, FA, EvS                           delay in completing arrangements for lending to local governments and water
enterprises by MOF, mainly because documentation and instructions for
"SLA" lending were not completed. Overall delays may necessitate re-
scheduling of Batch I expenditure programs (PJM).
upervision II  11/25/91   7      8.2 UM, ME, PS,           2          1    Delays overall necessitated re-scheduling for Batch I expenditure programs
FA, EvS, US, Ec                       (PJM) in April 1992.
CE = Civil Engineer           FA = Financial Analyst            MF = Municipal Finance             TM = Team leader       WSE = Water supply Engineer
DO = Disbursement Officer     FMS = Financial Management Specialist   OMS = Operation/Management Specialist   UM = Urban Management   NR = Not Recorded
Ec = Economist .              IS = Institutional Specialist     PS - Procurement Specialist        UP = Urban Planner
EvS = Environmental Specialist  ME = Municipal Engineer         SS = Social Scientist              US = Urban Specialist



34
Table 13 (Cont'd)
Performance rating
Stages of project Month/ No. of    SW  Specialized         Implement. Developt.                              Types of problems
cycle       Year    persons   in  staff skills      status       impact
field represented          ___
Supervision III    08/08/92     7     0.0  UM, ME, Ec,           2          1    Mobilization of program advisors and other TA support seriously delayed
EvS, OMS, FA                           and difficulties anticipated in preparing FY 93-94 implementation program
and completing Batch III preparation; delays for water supply investments
for Kab. Badung (Bali), Kab. Sidoarjo and Gresik (EJ) until financial impact
of private sector investment proposals was appraised; same for Surabaya
Water Supply. GOI to request extension of 4/1/92 covenant date for water
supply tariff status report and adjustment as well as 6/30/92 due date for
initial 0 &M expenditure report.
Supervision IV     11/21/92    4      12.1 UM, ME, PS,           2          1      Same issues as noted in the above mission.
._   _FA
Supervision V     06/18/93      1     2.0  FA                    -          -    Most PDAMs experiencing cost increases and unaccounted for water. Most
(limited)                                                                         of the 37 PDAMs in East Java are currently able to cover 0 & M while most
are unable to cover depreciation. Most in Bali cover 0 & M, but some are
not covering depreciation.
Supervision VI    10/30/93      7     3.8  UM, PS, FMS,          2          1    Continuing uncertainty regarding bulk water source development (Umbulan
FA, EvS, CE                            Springs) for Surabaya Region, including Gresik and Sidoarjo. Issues
include: completing the installation of required program accounting,
monitoring and reporting systems; reallocating loan proceeds due to demand
for on-lending requests; revising the annual project budget memoranda for
East Java to assure consistency with appraised program (PJM).
Supervision VII   02/16/94      8     7.8  UM, IS, FA (2),      2           1    Mid-term review. Major issues include: (i) continuing uncertainty regarding
ME (2), EvS,                           bulk water source development (Umbulan Springs) for Surabaya Region
PS                                     including Gresik, and Sidoarjo; (ii) completing the reallocation of loan
proceeds to add up to $23 million to loan category I if all major sub-loans
for water supply are agreed; and (iii) resolving the potential over-
commitment of loan proceeds. Other problems faced include delays
experienced due to lack of timely support to local units which were designed
into the project, and need for flexibility in program content, method and
procedures in support of new Repelita VI objectives.
CE = Civil Engineer             FA  Financial Analyst              MF = Municipal Finance              TM = Team leader        WSE = Water supply Engineer
DO = Disbursement Officer       FMS = Financial Management Specialist   OMS = Operation/Management Specialist   UM = Urban Management   NR = Not Recorded
Ec = Economist                 IS = Institutional Specialist       PS = Procurement Specialist        UP = Urban Planner
EvS = Environmental Specialist  ME = Municipal Engineer            SS = Social Scientist               US = Urban Specialist



35
Table 13 (Contd)
Stages of project |Month/ |No. of  |SW  |Specialized    Implement. Developt.                            Types of problems
cycle      Year  lpersons   in Istaff skills    (status       limpact
l       I        'field represented                          Soi
Supervision VIII  09/14/94    7      7.8 UM, IS, ME           S          S    Solid waste components for Denpasar and Kab. Badung (Bali) were not
(2), FA (2),                         being operated as sanitary landfills per approved program.
l_____        EvS, OD
Supervision IX    07/16/95    5     10.0 IS, EvS, ME,         S          S    Pending issues: (a) availability of RDA funds for PDAMs Badung and
FMS, OD                              Gresik; (b) making the Badung sewage treatment plant operational; (c)
establishing economic viability of the Lamongan Ring Road; (d) increasing
water tariffs in some PDAMs to ensure compliance with the loan agreement;
l______                       __________           and (e) improving effectiveness of some TA assignments.
Supervision X     10/14/95    1    0.80 IS                                     Mission informed Government that the Bank will not finance Lamongan
(limited)                                                                      ring road as it is not economically justified and Bank suggested that GOI can
l______________                          _____________ __________             use the funds freed up for other feasible subprojects in East Java PJMs.
Supervision XI    05/10/96    3      4.9 IS, ME, FMS          S          S    The two water supply subprojects in East Java in Sidoarjo and Gresik
unlikely to be completed on time; cost escalation and very slow progress in a
major pipe laying contract and poor quality of pipe laying work in Sidoarjo;
l______                                   _______ severe flood damage to transmission pipeline in Klungkung (Bali).
Supervision XII   9/24/96     1    2.95 ME                               -    Review of status of implementation on PDAM Sidoarjo, PDAM Gresik, and
(limited)                                                                      PDAM Klungkung. Extension of the loan by nine months could allow
l______                                            ________ project completion.
Supervision XIII  11/01/96    3     NR  IS, 00, FMS                      -    No special problems.
(limited)        I    _I                                I _          __
ICR Mission       07/04/97        6  NR  IS, ME, Ec,                           A small part of the loan may remain unutilized.
___ ___ ___ ___   __  __       W E,  FA,   00  
CE = Civil Engineer           FA = Financial Analyst            MF = Municipal Finance             TM = Team leader       WSE  Water supply Engineer
DO = Disbursement Officer     FMS = Financial Management Specialist   OMS = Operation/Management Specialist   UM = Urban Management   NR = Not Recorded
Ec = Economist                IS = Institutional Specialist     PS = Procurement Specialist        UP = Urban Planner
EvS = Environmental Specialist  ME = Municipal Engineer         SS = Social Scientist              US = Urban Specialist



36
Appendix A
ICR Mission Aide Memoire
The World Bank                                   1818 H Street N.W.          (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT   Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION            U.S.A.                      CableAddress: INDEVAS
August 18, 1997
Prof. Dr. Herman Haeruman,
Deputy V,
BAPPENAS,
Jalan Madiun 4-6, Ln. 3,
Jakarta, Indonesia
Dear Prof. Haeruman:
East Java Bali Urban Development Project
Implementation Completion Mission: June - July 1997
This letter confirms the findings of the Implementation Completion Mission, led by Raja
Iyer, Task Manager, during June - July 1997. The mission's aide-memoire is attached.
Loan Closing. I am pleased to learn that work on the remaining water supply projects in
Klungkung, Gresik, and Sidoarjo is substantially complete and that the loan will close on
September 30, 1997 as scheduled. I understand that a small part of the loan may remain
unutilized. As you are aware, the Bank should receive disbursement applications for all
expenditures incurred for work done under the project (prior to the closing date) no later than
four months from the closing date, i.e., January 31, 1998. If Government would like to reallocate
the proceeds of the loan between the different categories, please let us know by the end of this
month.
Review of Works. I am very happy to learn that the quality of works executed under the
project has been good and that the level of maintenance is, in general, satisfactory. However, I
note that, overall, operations and maintenance needs further improvement (see below) and would
therefore welcome Government's views on how this critical issue can be better addressed.
ICR Workshops in East Java and Bali. I would like to congratulate the officials from the
two provinces for organizing the ICR Workshops in the field; the Workshop in East Java was
particularly good. Based on the presentations of the provincial and local governments, the
principal conclusions of the two Workshops were:
(a) Investment Program - The EJB investment program has had a positive impact on
infrastructure service delivery.
(b) IUIDP Process - The IUIDP process has taken root and has strengthened the
capacity of local governments for taking responsibility for urban infrastructure.



37
(c) Operations and Maintenance - Awareness about 0 & M has increased and local
governments in both provinces have won Adipura and other GOI awards. However, 0 & M
budgets of local governments are still inadequate, and efforts to install a Performance Oriented
Maintenance Management System (POMMS) can only be considered marginally successful.
(d) Revenue Improvement Action Plans (RLIP) - In general there has been strong growth
in local revenues and the RIAP effort has made a major contribution in this regard.
Other implementation issues identified in the Workshops include: shortage of counterpart
funds and delays in approval of SPABP; delays (in some cases, very long delays) in mobilization
of consultants; tender processing under Bank procurement guidelines; and elaborate GOI
approval procedures.
PDAMFinancial Covenants. I am concerned that the mission's review of compliance
with water supply financial covenants in a sample of ten PDAMs indicates that some PDAMs in
both provinces are not in compliance with the covenants on full cost (i.e., operations and
maintenance plus depreciation) recovery and on payment of dividends to local governments.
Compliance with these covenants is critical to the financial viability of the PDAMs. I trust that
this issue will feature prominently in the agenda of the proposed ICR Workshop in Jakarta (see
below) and that an acceptable Action Plan for early compliance will be finalized shortly.
ICR Workshop in Jakarta. I understand that the planned ICR Workshop in Jakarta, with
the participation of key central and provincial agencies, could not be conducted during the
mission as originally planned. I trust that this Workshop, which will focus on both an overall
assessment of the project and on general issues relating to IU(I)DP type projects, will be held in
mid-September. The conclusions and recommendations of this important Workshop will have a
critical bearing not only on the EJB ICR but also on the Bank's future urban projects in Repelita
vII.
GOI Contribution to the ICR. The mission reviewed with the Executing Agency, Cipta
Karya, the work to be done by GOI Consultants in providing statistical and other information
necessary for the project's ICR and in assisting Cipta Karya to prepare the GOI contribution to
the project ICR. It would be extremely useful to have a draft of the Consultants' report available
by early September, so that it can be used as a background document for the ICR Workshop in
Jakarta.
Completion of the ICR Mission. The work of the ICR Mission can only be completed
after the proposed ICR Workshop in Jakarta and review of the draft report of the GOI ICR
Consultants. We will field a mission in September this year to complete the ICR work.
With best wishes.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed)
Raja Iyer
Acting Manager
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia & Pacific Region



38
cc: Dr. Ir. Manuwoto, Chairman, TKPP
Dr. Ir. Bambang Panudju, Executive Secretary, TKPP
Dr. Ir. Sujana Royat, Kepala, Biro P4R, BAPPENAS
Ir. Pungky Samadi, Biro P4R, BAPPENAS
Ir. Rachmadi B.S., Director General, Cipta Karya
Ir. Djoko Kirmanto, Director, Bina Program, DGCK
Ir. Budiman Arief, Director Implementation, Central Region, DGCK
Ir. Gandhi Harahap, Director, BINKOT
Dr. Ida Bagus Oka, Governor, Bali Province
Drs. Ida Bagus Ardana, Ketua, Bappeda TK. I, Bali
Drs. Hariyawan, PPMO Bali
Ketua, Bappeda TK I, East Java
Ir. Hadi Prasetyo, PPMO East Java



39
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
EAST JAVA BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REVIEW MISSION: JUNE - JULY 1997
AIDE- MEMOIRE
1.    An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Mission, led by Raja Iyer, Task Manager,
comprising Alan Coulthart, Dong Liu, Risyana Sukarma, Leila Elvas, and George Soraya visited
Bali and East Java during the period June 25 to July 4. Alexandra Ortiz joined the mission for
the workshops in the two provinces. Prior to visiting the two provinces, the mission had brief
meetings in Jakarta with the Executive Secretary, TKPP, BAPPENAS, and BINKOT. On return
to Jakarta, the mission had meetings with Cipta Karya (Ir. Djoko Kirmanto, Director Bina
Program; Ir. Budiman Arief, Director Implementation, Central Region; Ir. Manahan Sinaga,
CPMO) and BAPPENAS (Dr. Ir. Sujana Royat, Kepala Biro P4R, and Ir. Pungky Samadi, Biro
P4R) to discuss the findings and agree on the next steps. The mission wishes to record its
appreciation of the courtesies extended and the cooperation received from various agencies -
Pusat, provincial, and local.
2.    Loan Closing. The mission is pleased to note that work on the remaining water supply
sub-projects in Klungkung, Gresik, and Sidoarjo is substantially complete and the project will
close on September 30, 1997. Based on the current status of disbursements and anticipated
remaining disbursement applications, it appears that a small portion of the loan may remain
unutilized; further, it may also be necessary to reallocate the proceeds of the loan between the
different disbursement categories. The mission asked the CPMO to finalize the position on
expected loan utilization and allocation by category and, if necessary, to formally request
reallocation of loan proceeds. Brian Binder, the project financial analyst, will be available to
provide guidance to the CPMO and the PFAMS consultants in this matter. The CPMO
confirmed that this work would be completed by early August and the formal reallocation
request, if any, would be sent to the Bank by the end of August.
3.    The mission also explained the Bank's procedures regarding final disbursements under
the loan (for work done until the closing date and invoiced by the closing date) to the CPMO.
4.    GOI Contribution to the ICR. The mission reviewed with Cipta Karya (Bina Program
and CPMO) the work to be done by GOI consultants in providing statistical and other
informnation necessary for the project's ICR and in helping Cipta Karya to prepare the GOI
contribution to the ICR. The mission was informed that work on selection of the ICR Consultant
is at an advanced stage and that the consultants would complete their work by the closing date.
The mission indicated that it would be extremely useful if the consultant's draft report were
available by early September, so that it could be used as a background document for the proposed
ICR Workshop in Jakarta. The CPMO agreed to have the consultants work towards this
schedule.
5.    Assessment of Technical Assistance. During discussions with Ir. Manahan Sinaga,
CPMO, the mission noted that TA constituted a substantial part of the loan. In order to assess the
impact of TA contracts under the project, it has been agreed that the CPMO would classify them
under the three categories shown in the SAR: DED&S; program management; and institutional
development (municipal management improvement and new project preparation). The Executing



40
Agency would then assess the impact of each TA package in each category as being: fully
satisfactory; partly satisfactory; or unsatisfactory. The mission looks forward to receiving
government's assessment of project TA by early September so that it can be an input to the ICR
Workshop in Jakarta.
6.    Review of Works. Alan Coulthart, with assistance from Risyana Sukarma and George
Soraya, inspected major sub-projects in ten local governments - five each in East Java and Bali.
Sub-projects inspected were in the sectors of urban roads, drainage, solid and human waste
management, and water supply. The mission is very pleased to find that the quality of works has
been good and that the level of maintenance is, with the exception of some storm drainage,
satisfactory. Mr. Coulthart's findings are contained in Annex 1. The mission recommends that
the various suggestions contained in Annex 1 (which were discussed with local government
officials in the field) be acted upon immediately.
7.    Economic and Financial Analysis. Dong Liu has described the work to be done by the
ICR consultants on economic and financial analysis of sub-projects completed under EJB. These
are contained in Annex 2 and have been discussed with the CPMO.
8.    PDAM Financial Covenants' Review. Leila Elvas visited four PDAMs in Bali and six
PDAMs in East Java to review the status of compliance with financial covenants on a sample
basis and to develop formats to enable the ICR Consultants' to compile the data in a standard
format for all East Java and Bali PDAMs. These formats, which have been discussed and agreed
with the CPMO and the provincial staff, are contained in Annex 3.
8.    The key findings on compliance with covenants' by the sample PDAMs are as follows:
(a) Conversion of BPAMs to PDAMs - All local governments in the sample have
PDAMs now and are in compliance.
(b) Cost Recovery - All sample PDAMs (except Klungkung in Bali) now recover 0 & M
costs. (Klungkung is a special case, as its water transmission pipe was washed away in a flash
flood in 1995, resulting in a drastic reduction in water sales volume.) Gianyar in Bali, and
Jombang and Situbondo in East Java, however do not recover depreciation. Tariff increases
scheduled for Bali PDAMs as part of the FRAPs (which are covenants under BUIP) will ensure
full cost recovery by the end of BUIP period. In East Java, tariff increases agreed under EJ2 will
facilitate the move towards full cost recovery.
(c) Debt Equity Ratio - The debt equity ratio requirement has been met by all sample
PDAMs except Kotamadya Kediri.
(d) Payments to Pemda - This covenant appears to have been met by all sample Bali
PDAMs. In East Java, however, a number of the sample PDAMs do not appear to be in
compliance.
9.    In meetings with BAPPENAS and Cipta Karya, the mission highlighted the issues
relating to non-compliance by PDAMs with some of the key financial covenants. The mission
would like to place this item on the agenda of the upcoming ICR WRorkshop in Jakarta in
September and would seek an Action Plan from government to ensure early compliance.
10.   ICR Workshops in East Java and Bali. The PPMOs in East Java and Bali organized
Workshops to review with local governments the achievements under the project. Agenda for
these Workshops had been discussed with government and agreed. Each local government was



41
asked to make a brief assessment of the achievement of EJB in their jurisdiction, using the agreed
agenda as a point of departure.
11.   In Bali, a one day Workshop was held, with each of the nine local governments making a
presentation. Views were also expressed by the PPMO, the PPMU, and the PPFO, the three
principal provincial project coordination agencies. In East Java, the province organized a two
Workshop in Batu. A sample of 11 local governments presented their views; however, other
representatives of the other local governments were present and participated actively in the
discussions. A representative of the CPMO also attended the East Java Workshop.
12.   The mission was very pleased with the Workshops, especially the one in East Java, and
would like to congratulate the provincial and local governments for conducting them well. It was
noteworthy that the presentations appeared to have been prepared by the local government
officials, without any assistance from consultants. In East Java, in particular, the standard of
several presentations was exceptionally good - in content, use of visual aids, and delivery. The
experiment of local governments taking turns in chairing the discussions and summing up the
findings after each session was an unqualified success.
13.   The principal conclusions of the Workshops were:
(a) Investment program - The investment program has had a positive impact on
infrastructure service delivery.
(b) IUIDP Process - The IUIDP process of preparing PJMs, programming investments,
planning and managing implementation of investment programs, etc. has taken root and has been
beneficial in strengthening the capacity of local governments in taking on responsibility for urban
infrastructure..
(c) Operations and Maintenance - Awareness of 0 & M has increased and local
governments spoke with pride about winning Adipura and other government awards. However, it
was acknowledged that funding for 0 & M in local government budgets has not increased to the
extent necessary. The POMMS effort has not had the anticipated impact and can, at best, be
considered only marginally successful.
(d) RLIP - Almost all local governments have indicated strong growth in local revenues
during the project period and consider the RIAP exercise to have been primarily responsible.
14.   Problems encountered during project implementation include: shortage of counterpart
funds and delays in approval of SPABP; tender processing under Bank procurement guidelines;
and complicated procedures in general. Local governments in both East Java and Bali indicated
that they did not face any major issues on land acquisition and resettlement.
15.   In the area of technical assistance, delays in mobilization of consultants was reported as a
problem. Among the various TA packages, RIAP advisory support was considered to have had
the most impact. Provincial officials in Bali also made special mention of the success of the
PPMO Advisory package.
16.   ICR Workshop in Jakarta. The proposed ICR Workshop in Jakarta could not be held
as key GOI officials were not available. The mission agreed with GOI that the Workshop would
be held in September during the ICR Follow-up Mission. During that mission, the draft report of
the ICR Consultants will also be reviewed.



42
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION: JUNE - JULY 1997
INSPECTION OF WORKS
The mission carried out an inspection of works in 10 Kotamadyas/Kabupatens to check
the quality of construction and subsequent maintenance. A list of the works visited is given at the
end of this Annex. In general the quality of works was found to be good and the level of
maintenance, with the exception of some storm drainage, satisfactory.
The mission has the following recommendations: On roads the drainage connection
through the kerb from the side of the road to the road-side drain should be improved by
increasing the size, screening the opening and ensuring that it is kept unobstructed.
Consideration should be given to providing separate lanes and/or tracks for bicycles and becaks.
More detailed records should be kept of accidents involving pedestrians and cyclists to identify
priority areas for side-walks and bicycle paths. Storm drain maintenance should be improved by
allocating more responsibility and clarifying organizational responsibility. Local Governments
are to be congratulated on the efforts they have made to improve solid and human waste
management. However specialized advice should be sought on the design and operation of
leachate treatment facilities and further training should be given to the operators of the IPLT at
Kot. Denpasar. It is also recommended that material for covering refuse should be obtained from
the TPAs unless it can be delivered free of charge from elsewhe:re.
Water Supply
Water supply accounted for more than 50% of project investments, though much of this
was in transmission and distribution pipes, which are not visible. The Tukad Ayung III intake
facility and treatment plant in Kabupaten Badung, and service reservoir at Bakbakan in Kb.
Gianyar were well constructed and were being operated satisfactorily. In Kb. Klungkung the
original gravity pipeline from the spring source had been washed away by a severe flood in 1995
and had since been replaced by a pumping main which follows a main road. Although the
pumping main had already been commissioned some work was still continuing at the source.
From discussions with the engineers on site it appears that the original spring
protection/collection chamber may not function as originally intended. There was concern that
the spring may not be capable of sustaining sufficient yield to match the installed pump capacity.
The situation was confused by the fact that the same consultant had not been contracted for
design and supervision. The mission advised that DJCK should immediately refer the
problem to the design consultant to obtain their advice on whether modifications to the
original design are required. It was also recommended that a pump test be carried out for
at least 24 hours continually to assess the sustainable yield of new collection chamber. A
check should also be made to ensure that the pipe has been adequately protected at the
submerged river crossing close to the collection chamber.
The project has had a significant impact on the number of house connections with
reported increases from 9,000 to 24,000 in Gianyar, 2,800 to 9,250 in Klungkung and 3,500 to
11,000 in Buleleng. More effort needs to be made in Kediri where only some 12% of the
population is connected to the distribution system. The low coverage is most likely due to good
shallow wells throughout the service area.



43
Urban Roads
Urban road works mainly comprised widening within existing rights of way,
strengthening the pavement, incorporation of drains, and the provision of sidewalks. The mission
also visited the Tabanan Bypass, which comprises 7.7km of new road and two major bridges.
Generally the quality of work is good. Road surfaces are for the most part smooth with
well compacted asphalt. The finish of the Tabanan Bypass is somewhat rougher though
durability should not be a problem. In some locations, particularly in Kuta, the openings through
the kerbs to the drain are too small and are likely to become blocked. Elsewhere they are
generally satisfactory. A particularly good detail incorporating a screened opening has been
adopted in Nganjuk and Kodya Malang, which would be worth copying elsewhere. On future
projects the DED and Supervision consultants should be instructed to pay more attention to
this
The main beneficial impact from the road investments undoubtedly comes from the
sidewalks, which improve pedestrian safety. Kerb heights are higher than would be provided in
Europe and the States, but given the lack of parking, it is probably a prudent measure. The
mission advises that the local governments keep detailed annual records of pedestrian
accidents with a view to identifying priority areas for further investments in preventative
measures. In the future more attention will have to be paid to traffic calming and demand
management to improve the urban environment, particularly in the popular tourist areas.
The mission also considers that it would be worth paying more attention to making separate
provision for the large numbers of bicycles and becaks (non-motorized transport) using the roads.
Kot. Madiun had already provided a single lane on a pilot basis on one of their main roads.
Drainage
The drainage inspected, all of which was constructed in masonry, had been built to an
acceptable standard. The largest drain visited, the Tukad Loloan in Kotamadya Denpasar, had
some structural cracking on the downstream side of the bypass, which should be patched before
water washes out the backfill behind it. More attention should be paid to maintenance. An
interceptor drain built in Kediri was virtually blocked with silt and refuse. There appeared to be
two problems; the provision of funding and the allocation of responsibility (Dinas PU, Dinas
Kebersihan, or Dinas Pengairan).
Solid and Human Waste Management
These are vital urban services, particularly in Bali with its densely populated urban areas
and economic dependence on tourism. The TPAs in Kabs. Badung (Canggu), Singaraja, and
Kediri were being well managed as controlled tips with minimal apparent impact on the
environment. The contrast with Suwung in Kot. Denpasar (not financed under the project) where
there are large clouds of flies and an objectionable smell was marked. At Canggu the mission
was informed that it may not be possible to expand to the planned 10 ha (2.5 ha are currently
occupied) because of the high cost of land. Efforts will therefore have to be made to identify a
new site by 2000 when the current site is fully utilized. It was noted that the final treatment unit
of the leaclhate treatment works was not functioning, though this does not appear to be a problem
as evaporation appears to be sufficient for final disposal. The mission was surprised to learn that
material for covering the refuse at both Canggu and Singaraja is imported rather than being



44
excavated on site (this has the additional advantage of providing additional storage capacity).
The mission advises that the policy of buying cover material rather than excavating on site
is reviewed. Leachate treatment facilities had also been constructed at Madiun and Kediri.
While these Kotamadyas are to be congratulated on the priority they have given to protecting the
environment, more specialized advice should be sought on the design and operational
procedures to ensure they fulfill their intended function. A tank wall had collapsed at the
Madiun facility and it was not intercepting all leachate. The Kediri facility recirculates the final
effluent to the tip, which should accelerate decomposition of the refuse.
The transfer depots visited were well constructed and properly maintained. The transfer
depot in Singaraja was in particular very well maintained and cleaned. The common practice to
collect refuse from the transfer depot is twice a day: early morning and late afternoon.
A visit was also made to the septage treatment plant, IPLT, at Suwung, Kot. Denpasar.
This comprises an Imhoff tank, anaerobic, facultative and maturation ponds and sludge drying
beds. The works were well laid out and had been satisfactorily constructed (the mission was
informed that the original inlet pump was unsatisfactory and had to be replaced with a model
suited to the high solids content of the septage). Although well constructed more attention needs
to be paid to operating procedures. At the time of the visit, highly polluted effluent was being
diverted from the anaerobic pond to irrigate adjacent fields. This appears to be a regular practice
as the maturation pond was dry. The facultative ponds were also in need of desludging. The
mission recommends that greater attention be given to operation of the IPLT though
training and closer management supervision.



45
Works Inspected June 26 to July 2, 1997
Kot./Kab             Roads        Drainage     Solid &    Water Supply
Human
Waste Mgt.
Kot. Denpasar                    x            x            x
Kab. Badung                      x                          x            x
Kab. Buleleng                    x            x            x             x
Kab. Gianyar                                                             x
Kab. Klungkung                                                           x
Kot. Mojokerto                   x                         x
Kot. Nganjuk                     x            x
Kot. Madiun                      x            x            x
Kot. Kediri                      x            x            x             x
Kot. Malang
Kab. Malang (Batu)                                         x



46
-  -   P A R T E M E N  P:E K E R.J A A N  UMUIM
DIREKTORAT JENDERAL CIPTA KARVA
*i 11. R..uah I No. I hp. 7391779 *7246425  73977SR - Fi. 73977S9 P.0O fl x- '  413 K8Y, Jakura IZI0
Our ref HC>2- 2   C l/Ogs.                                         Jakarta, 9DMarch 1998
-Mr. Ruija Iyer
Task Manager East Java Bali UDP
'Urban Development Sector Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W
Washington, D.C. .O433
Subject  : East Java -Bali UDP (FLII-UDP Ln. 3304-IND)
-: Implementation Completion Report (ICR) GOI's View
.Dear Raja,
In .ccordance with the above captioned subject, we lerewith are pleased to send you GOt's views
of -B Implementation Completion Report (ICR) as you requested.
::  W- also would like to express our evaluation result on East Java-Bali LrDP   In principie, the;
prc;ect objectives  have been satisfactorily achieved. The Bank perforenance in the stage of
preparation, appraisal  and project implementation, was good. The East Java- Bali tlDP,J likelsae,
provided many lessons learncd for firther projects in terms of scctor policy, urban Infrastructure,- 
nmechanism, and also on the geographical scope.
:  inally, please find more details regarding GOl's view of ICR as attached
Thank you fbr your attention.
1. Director General of Human S       nt                              ogam Develop--e-tit            "
2.' Deputyv iNtional Developmeni Plannring Agency
3.ExecutAive Secretary to Urb'an Development 'Coordination Teamt
4. " irwaar a- : c'.',.  '1 .111 T'   . 111111 eft5SiO    MaN' 
5.Head of Reigional Devi opmcnt Planning Bor  fes  aaaInC
*- ; - . - . . z - ~~ig Bard of CatJaaPoiii
'6. HeaD  6lof Reional Development Planning Boagrd of a li Pr -vi.cc                 * -:
- 7.  Head of Sub Directorate for Central Region Prograim.iing, DGI IS
A(,' RSWfBPRD                                                                                         A   :   :-.--        --W  



.GOVERNMENT OF INIDONESIA;
* .   ~ ~ .MlNISTRY OF' PUBLIIQ WORKS
* .- DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HUMAN SETTLIEMENTS. 
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
*      ~~EAST JAVA-BALI UDP
IBRD LOAN No, .33044IND
Gvernment of Inp'onesla Views
**JAKATA MARCH iuuaW 
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



48
TABLE OF CONTENT
A. Evolution of Urban Intrastructure Dev't and 1987 Policy Statement
j. -Overview of iUIDP                     ......  ,.. ...
-2. Indonesia .Statement of Policies for Urban Development 1987           .          2 . .   2
B.. Project Objectives and Components
: i. Project Objectives                    ..................                       4
2. Project Components   ..........4..........   .. ... .. .........4
c. Evaluation of Project Accomplishment..........................           .  .. ..     5
Annex 1, Bank Perfomance
- Annex 2. Lesson Leamed
Annex 3, Yey project of second generation approach
Annex 4  Integrated Plan and Program Synchronization
*       *                  S   .    -    -       X~~~~~S         .
- '   -  -    - .      .- .   R  . -   ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.



49
- ;          -I>; .. ; . ~ ::lmplementation CompletIon Report (ICR)-
East Java-Ball UDP, IBRD Loan No.3304-IND .
.A  Evolution of Urban lnfrastructure Development and Statement of Policies for
. Uban Development 1987-
: -1. Evo    of Indonesia Urban Development Project; An Ovei v;ew of IUIDP
The emergence of IUIDP (Intergrated Urban Infrastructure, Development Program)
concept has a long  history. of urban infrastructure planning, development, and
management evolution in Indonesia, which is Initiated by Meinistry of Public Works of
--.-Indonesia . One can lndentlfy evolution of the approach on planning. development,
and management of urban infrastructure into five generations The first generation
to urban 'infrastructure provision is highly sectoral,. implying that each sector (i.e.
water supply, etc.) is planned and implemnented largely on its owr with relatively little.
coordination or integration beitween sectors. However, this shortcoming is recognized,
by the government at the beginning of the First Five-Year National Development Plan
(Repelita I 1969-1974), when the inItlal integrated approach to urban infrastructure
provision, the internationally known Kampung Improvement Program  (KIP), is.
formuIated.. The program concentrated on upgrading and provicding new walkways
and roads, drainage, clean water sUpply, communal latrines/washing facilities, and
commu'nity facilities,;while retaining most of the housing stock Initiated in Jakarta and
-Surabaya durng Repelita 1, it can.be viewed as the first generation urban project to
integrated development urban infrastructure.
*  -   : . The second generation of urban project is implemented during Repelta 11 and 1.l
(1974-1984). It has broader. urban infrastructure components. Reali7ing that KIP's
emphasis on- microlevel facilities need to be complemented by city-wid' services and
systems,a series of what are, essentially pilot project endeavored to exlend the
integrated approach to the entire urban area.. The keys projects of second generalion
-  . are called. Urban 1, Urban 2, Urban 3, Urban 4, a id Urban a (see annex 3 for  -
detaild project descrption). The third generation of urban project is defined when
GOI (Government of lndonesia),is apply the similar principles on to nation-wide scale.,
-as national policy and program.-This approach requires a major conceptual change in
urban 'developmenz policy, from the- poject approach to program  approach.
- :   .-.Nationa1 urban policy makers come to reralize. tat setting sectoral targets will: not;
.sufficient                 o ormUlate infrastructure nnvs Iment program which
-- :meetsthe unique needsof eachmuniopaity. When' -GOI ntr.uus IUIDRas 'ans-''n-:;-.
Ce;p.'r .'gp';,2 1- 'i W-( 'iJ ';w  ; ~   '                                I =a;'     
* 4''''@-'r',f'.''';o'  *'';,    X ,   ,,;   ,    ,       ,



50
integrated approach in the period 1985-19PO, Asian Deveiopmenit Bank (AOB)
provides a substantial financial support not only technical assistance  for program
preparaton:but also for implementation stage. These initial packages are the ADB-
supported Medan Urban Development Project (MUDP) and Bandung  Urban
Development Project (BUDP).
'Tefot geeai  of --    ...;ba.n
-    -   The fourth generation of urban development project is the urban project in the
:period of 1987-1989 which implemented with IBRD assistance Qf a special source of
-funds at a time when there is a need to shore up the GOl's declining resources,
Circumstances presented a good opportunity for Indonesia to be considered as a
V :candidate for urban sector lending. The Urban Sector Loan (l,JSL) provided broad
budget support for the'entries urban sector, subject to fundarri-r;T. I policy actions and
:changes-G1 committed itself to undertake. This new funding sources. which can be
-viewed as the fourth generation approach to urban development.
* As the IUIDP approach is launch in mid 1980s it can be described as Ute fifth
generation of integrated urban development program. The: specific characteristic of
this generation is that the package not only prepared the Medium-Term Investment
Program, but  also a Revenue Improvement Action Plarn (RIAP) - and Local
*Institutional Development Plan (LIDAP). Together, the Medium-Term Investment
Program, the RIAP and the LIDAP constituted the PJM for a given local govermment.
EJB-UDP (East Java Bali Urban Development Project) is one of the urban projects
wit;nin this generation of urban development project.
:2. Indonesia Statement of Policies for Urban Development 1987
Along with the decrease in Govemrnment revenue from oil in the oeriod of eighties, on
the one hand, and the tendency of high demand on Urban Infrastructure Development
to support economic growth, environment, and poverty aloviation on he. other hand,   -
the GOI has adopted the IUIDP concept as a national operationa approach to satisfy
the demand and to reduce shortage of financing of urban infrastructure development.
"..The GOI, then, has issued thle Statement of Policies .'for Urban Development in 1 987
which - basically support the lUIDP approach. The  policy st'tement  for Urban
-:.  . --- l)Development comprises as follows:-
; .-.O.De.velopment of :Urban Infrastructue and operaton and mairntenance, thereof, in
; .: principle, is within the auithority.and responsibility of'the local governments, with the
assisance nd gudanceof th Pro inca  nandCe'ntral Govern'ment
d'        'A ),4AJIJ.' Sdgi. a
7,:,,--,;..,i.......-: ..,. S32



51
O  Planning, prqgramming, and 'identification of investment prigrities' by'all level of
Government for.urban development will continue.to be irnproved - by means of ,.a
decentralized and integrated approach which, among others has'already started
through the Integrated Urban Infrastruciure Development" programming system.
O  In order to develop Local Government responsibility for .:providing  urban
infraStructure services, there   will be further strengthening of the  Local
Government's capability to mobilize resources and optimize t1e use of funds.
O  In .accordance with the. principle of decentralization of urban infrastructure
development responsibility, the .Government will, in addition to the measures
described under,.policy point 3, endeavor to improve the financing system for urban
infrastructure system. The purpose of the improvements would be to
:   Strengthen Central-Local Government borrowing scheme for Local Government
'- .'-.urban infrastructure investment needs, and,
- Provide incentives for local resource mobilization and borrow.ng.
'   ' o  The capability of Provincial (level l) and Local Government institutions to be more
effective in executing urban. development activities within the context, of
strengthening their roles and responsibility  will be enhanced by institutional.
development procedural. improvement, where appropriate. including training for
Provincial and Local Goevernment staff which' is to be provi'ded by means of a
: .coordinated program to local govemments manpower development.'
O  Coordination and consultation between the various agen6es and levels of
Govemment (Central, Provincial, and.Local) involved in the development of urban
infrastructure   and services . will: continue 'to. be strengttened for smooth
implementation of development activities and to provide a mechanism for revieiw
and formulation of future'sector policy recommendation.          -
The policy statemet, icluding IUIDP approach,' become a joint approach of GOI and
the World Bank to address 'urban infrastructure development prooil-is in the country.
The East Java - Bali UDP is -one of the GOI and the Banks first opportunity to test and
develop the IUIOP approach and it likeiwise'substantially reflects in the policy statement
-of QOl's on the Urban lnfrastructure Development, which is ,issued in 1987, and the
Policies in Repelita V, the Fifth Five-Year National Development Plan
"  '''-'.''  . , '' '''- w~,   "/s,'V';  ',' ,"'';j  '.j  :;- '" ;   -' ' 
: ~~~..  m, ,-.' V' .. ,'..  ' .'   -':  ..: 



-                                       5 2
B. Project Objectives and Components
1. Project Objectives.
The main purpose of the East Java-Bali UOP is to improve the quality of urban living
condition through improvement of infrastructure investment and service delivery in the
Province of East Java and Bali. The operational objectives are to
support urban infrastructure investment (including rehabilitation) in up to 45 local
governments in the Province of East Java and Bali including a limited expansion-
of the water distrihbution system within city of Surabaya.
*  improve urban infrastructure expenditure programming. financial planning and
information management of those local governments.
:  encourage local revenue generation, improve financial maragement and, more
generally, strengthen local governme.it human resources arid institutions, including
capacities to promote more effective community participation and environmental
management.
*  Assist sector development nation-wide, including preparation pf future projects
2. Project Components
The project has three principal components:
Infrastructure development, rehabilitation, and operation and maintenance (O&M),
..- -through a fve-year expenditure, program  in the IIJIDP sectcrs of water supply,
drainage,  solid  waste  management,  sanitation,  urban  roads,  Kampung
(neighborhood)  Improvement  Program  (KIP),  and  Market  Infrastructure
Improvement.Program (MIIP) which amounted of US$ 340 nlillion (94.4 % of total
1project costs). This includes  O&M expenditure of about $ 96 million (financed
entirely from Government funds) and DED&  Supervision (including PPMU Advisor)
of around $ 13 million.
,  Program management ($ 1-5 million, 4.2% of project costs )I to support further
:program and sub-project preparation, and management of program implementation.
--,:,,,.,."This includes TA for a range of activities ,(i) Completion of Batch I preparation; (ii)
.- -8atch  ull111 preparation: (iii) ANDAL preparation assistance; (iv) Appraisal support
to Bappeda`TK ;. (v) RIAPand Implementation S.upport. (vi) .PMDU Advisory
u5pport: (vii) PPMO  AAdvisory Support; (viii) Support to CPM    (ix) Program X
*   ; * - acCoufing (PFAis); (x) POMMS Implementafion.' -.     .;
-    X -  -8rg>w         IAI,'4^t-'- . 0 if  '4  .0,                
I,% 11'V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       v-



* r                            ~~~~~~~~~53
,~ ~ ~~~~~~0P* ..S     
:   Institutional. development (S 5 million,-1.4%  of the project cost). compnsing
-municipal management improvement and sector development
C. Evaluation of Project Accomplishment
a) Overall Assessment. On the basis of data collected, discussion with key persons in
the local govemment level I and level 11, and. information provided during  the
implementation of East Java - Bali UOP, the GOI concludes that the main objectives,
in principle, are well achieved. The shifting urban infrastructure planning. development,.
and management frqm sectoral and centralized towards a mpre integrated and
decentralized is the biggest achievement of the East Java-Bali UDP. However. The
GOI is also aware that there are some minor adjustments in phywical target for soine
sectors, delay in compliance with loan covenant, such a, to inurease tariff for water
supply  and number of house connection, as well as  the awareness of Local
GoveMnments to allocate sufficient budojetJqor,operation and maintenance (O&M)
during and post construction. But, these deficiencies do not reduce the entire
accomplishments of the East Java Bali UDP objectives. In addition, the GOI, indeed,
realiZes that East Java Bali UDP is one among the first urban development project
adopted IUIDP approach that these weaknesses have to. be improved in the future
-   urban development project.
b) Complexities In EJB UDP execution, project preparation and implementation of East
Java Bali UDP is very complex in taims, of sectoral coordination, geographical scope,
and institutional arrangement, but these complexities are as logical consequences of
introducing  the IUIDP concept which is   more integrated. decentralized, and
programmatic  :in urban infrastructure development than previous sectoral and
centralized development. Nevertheless, the handicaps due to the complexities in the :
jimplementatiorinof East Java Bali UDP are, so far marageable We are sure that the
preparation and implementation of East Java Bali UDP has provided  a good
experience in managing the preparation and implementation urban infrastructure
development projects and can be replicated elsewhere in Ilndonesia or even abroad.
-) Physical investment. The GOI is consider that the physical investment has indeed
been satisfactorily completed. The project has achieved its objective in: (a) supportirg
-urban infrastructure provision including installment and rehabilitation: (b) encouiraging
:  :  local revenue generation; and (c) strengthening local governirilnt through human;
:resourcs -development and Local Govemnt Institution DeVeopniient Plan (LIDAP).
''-'"'-'.'.,'::',   V't'''.,''.'''  ''-t   '''', J''''' we  '' '
-.;.   ...... i'<wlp   S  .1;te   !. '  ^   .  -   -  -   :-  .   ;  . .  ' i  ;---   :   ;  ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



5 4
d) Local Revenue  Generation;-  Revenue. Improverrent ActiQfl Plan (RIAP)  is
considered to -have satisfactorily achieved by most local governments. Despite its
weakness to fuffill infrastructure OtM funding commitment, all locA^ governments show
significant achievements in their local PADS revenue improvernent
e) Operation and Maintenance Budget Allocation. Based on infcrmation provided by
PUOD, tfat starting next fiscal year, there will be a local budgetary restructuring, in
which the O&M budget will be separately allocated to that of routine and development
budgets. This development will provides assurance on sufficient budget allocation for
every infrastructure installed by urban project.
f) Project Financial ajid Accounting Management (PFAM): although it s foundJ not lo
be very well utilize during project construction stage, PFAM is considered as a cutting
edge tool for managing the urban development project financ;al management. It is
suggested to be institutionalized within the local:government structure. and limited to
the project implementation
g) Human Resources Development: Problems related lo training effectiveness is that
the personnel who passed the training are not always posted in ti(eir original position
due to promotion. GOI is really aware to this condition and a :s considered as a
process in transferring IUIDP, approach to other sector development.
h) Sector Development and Sustainability; the approach of peinning, development
- and management wfll carry on the lUIOP concept by a more empowerment the
- stakeholders involved such as govemment (central, provincial, and local), community,
and. private sectors. To support this policy, GOI has restate's the framework of
integrated plan and program synchronization in the. urban infrastructure (Annex 4).
Our former 0G, now Minister of Public Works, has confirmed that this frainework
should be applied in the planning and programming of urban infrastructure in Repelita
VII (1998-2003).:
I) The GOI-is also aware that IUIDP is a concept which should be kept as flexible as to
respond to dynamic social and economic activities changes In addition. IUIDP concept
-.-  can be appli6d with or without loan fund sources. .Ho -ever, it is obvious that Bank
assistance during that - period, when IUIOP still developing until it become local
government routine activities, is important.
-  .      tj. d - 74 . *i - Ui > -   ,. C . . ..                
f   .' 0Ef' ''' 't      -^S  00D0 tf0          
* ' ' -'~~-40'''' ,, -d  "40.---, 174    14.'.  ;;N   l-;  .



55
ANNEX 1
Sank Performance during evolution and implementation project
The Batik performance can be summarized as follows:
*  Preparation of East Java-Bali UQP stage
Bank assistance in the preparation of East Java-Bali UDP stage is very good., The
;Bank provides, professional staff to assist GOI  in  deveoping of investment
program through  regular missions. In addition, the Bank staff, likewise, are
intensively involve in reviewing project proposals that it is very helpful for GOI to
*   .  .  reduce the complexities in the preparation of this project.
* Implementation of EJB UDP stage.
'The Bank supervisions during project implementation are worthwhile. It is noted
tnat members of supervision missions are cooperative and helpful to governnient
staff since missiQn usually consist of appropriate :omposition of skills to provide
essential assistance to project implementation issues. It is notably that periodic
supervision missions have given a strong motivation to local government staff to
improve their management capacity for project implementation
V J17. IA ItPi V 'A4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:    .    .   .   -   .   .   '   .  .   .  -
(.wAinJW Nfldj~1ir.I  MiJ '  4      7    .



5 6
ANNEX 2
LESSONS LEARNED
a. Physical investments
.    Effectiveness of project substantially depend on the understanding of local
govemment on sustainable approach in selecting project investment (i.e.
understanding the socio economic characteristics of the beneficiaries of the
projects, life cycle cost for operation and maintenance)
* Sustainability of the project :investment depend on the involvement of the local
professionals, consultants and other stakeholders  involved in planning,
programming, and construction.
-* Stages Provincial Government assistance to local gover-iment in selecting
sustainable project investments is crucial in order to avoid Pemda Tk 11 havinig
additional financial, and technical burden that they can not solve
b. Infrastructure Operation and Maintenance
. Dedication to O&M is closely related to the political environment, discipline,
commitment of local government in establishing sound O&M  budgeting
practices, and continuity of supervision and supports from higher level of
govemments to fill gap in maintenance budgets.
c. Quality of.Urban Infrastructure
*  Quality of projects completed depend on the timely fund Oisbursement, level of
-  responsiveness of consultant and contractor in solving problerns in situ, level
of coverage of project elements to enable project to provide optimum function
and appropriateness of project cost calculation (i.e. price escalation and
contingencies).
*  Different location shows different level of project effectiveness
d. Local Revenue Generation
Active supervfsion and assistance from higher level of govenment combined wilh
:continuous consultants services has strong impact on loc?l revenue.  In some
: .   D   -  cases, local revenue has exceed RIAP projection, therefore. it is important to
develop new model on RIA  analysis and projecon nfmethods to accommodate a
fast.- growing ocal socio-economic actMties.
iCV4JJp.*. D  'ri ''    1A I   -



e. Supporting Ad-Hoc Institutions
The establishrnent of PPMO, PPMU, and PPFO, etc to manage East Java Bali
UDP execution, in additional to structural organizations. contributes to the
successful of the project. However, they also created problems to their "parent"
structural organizations for conflict of interest of key person from structural
organizations. In addition, we are aware that these project-based units should
be temporary, and later be diffused to the structural institution establishinent as
part of provincial and local government function. Therefore the empowermlent
of the structural organization such as Bappeda3, Dinas PU Cipta Karya. and
Biro Keuangan will the highest priority to manage future lUIDP projects.
e. POAM strengthening
.  Development of PDAM  heavily depends internal management capacity of
PDAM, supervision from the provincial goveMment (c g PMDlU), evaluation
capacity of provincial govemment regarding soundness of the PDAM, degree of
professionalism attributed to  the internal organizatior of the PDAM, and
willingness of local government to cooperate with outside organizations.
The availability of and consistency in implementing of the PDAM corporate-
have strong impact on the level of performance.
f. Municipal Management Improvement
I Improvement in municipal management is depend on how far local and
provincial government can adjust themselves to new polit.cal environment of
nation; climate conducive to management improvements,. such as performance
orientation, transparency, and accountability; exposure of local government to
outside organizations such as professional associatioris, qniversities, municipal
associations, banking etc.; and assistance from  proviticiaI and national
government related offices.
g. IUIDP Process
Sustainability of IUIDP process is entirely depend on seve,al conditions, such
as the flexibility of IUIDP- approach to get other stakeholders (particularly the
private sector and community association) involve in urban infrastructure
planning and implementation; ability to reorient whatevvr government funds
7(APBD II, INPRES, APBN etc.) to stimulate and strengthien the initiative of other
stakeholders; ability of IUIDP'to' institutionalize 'entrepreneurial approach' in
project investments selection.



58
Annex 3
List of Second Generation Urban Project;3
No.    Project Name/Location                                  Donor
1. Urban Project I - Jakarta                                 IBRD
2. Urban Project 2 - Jakarta, Surabaya                       IBRO
3. Urban Project 3 - Semarang, Solo, Surabaya                 1BRO
Ujung Pandang
4. Urban Project 4 - Padang, Palembang, Pontianak             IB3RD
Banjarmasin, Samarinda, Yogya;(arta. Denpasar
5. Urban Project 5 - (same location as Urban Project 3)       IERD
6. Bandung Urban Development Project (BUOP)                   ADB
7. Medan Urban Development Project (MUDP)                     ADB
8. Central Java Small Towns Urban Development Project (STUOP) ADB



ANNa"NEX 4                                                                   Qtuastlons:
PLANNING INTEGRtTY ANO PROGRAM SYNCHFRoN NZIG                                                            1. rype. istdbutrni and Iniensltyd
Sectml Acdi(is 7
REGIONAL SPATIA.                          _ 2                                        2. Urban Cenleqm 7
NaUtOna      ------b.         PLAN (RTRW)                                        3                                    PKN  - NatIonal Utban Ceniea
PIOVI"Clal - ~~~                                                                                  PKWN - Regio}nal Urban Gonles
tocjl - * _ _ ~~~~~~~~~ -~~~- ~~- ~~~- - - ~~~ RaHles and Level od Servioe of duIry.
,                  ~~~~~~Tourbsm, Servic1es, Hoting, tk
-. .
_  OUrleg Syaem 7
Roads CbasIiTcalor ard Ieveld Saeviras
Nalucal Rewvces I n0gemn  Syrlam
SPATIAL                                                                           PATERNOF                      cOarrs atuf Channets)
3TRUCTURE                                                                            SPACE
UTILIZTO
I.                . 
CU lliitHIOn ArIBs
6                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Reg ioial Inlrags*n,uc e                       Urban and                                PrIority _evelp                         Cone on
System  anler-Urban Center and                    lurels Systern                            Areas and Secleors                     - A
Inler-dwelopmnenl areas)               _                                    -
Periir  BiasIc                             Urbst anl RJurl                           Barlc Iw*aa(  rh norr
It rstfucture                            Basic InWraoIrulure                         Eco rnoic Acl Mte.
Other
*                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airoma
e * Trmospartatlan biffrasructuwe                     Urtan and Rural Rcds System                OWr Farnn Roadst P(antatfon
(LrrndlSet/Aii)
A * Raw Waler Delivery Syikem le Urban               Fluud Control Syslem                       - Wigritlon System
Centers end Econonric Developmenil Arsm    .                                                - Paddy Field Irtitalrllon             Notes-
_____________                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A a WIarne RteSoUee tMragemen&n
C                                                   -WSSyem ;r                                                                          B  Roads gnd 4ghway
Environmen(ta Sanilahton System                                                   C   Huma SeNmements
- HousrIng System
- Economic. Social & Public Fecl% es                                               P31(1 - IUWOP a Integralad Urban bItratlure
- Urb1n Design and Bulding Code                                                                   Development Pnraum
P3DT - lRIDP   Inteigrated Rurvilfirastnmdre
via                                                                                               DevreWpmenl Pmrgmrr
QUlDP a P31K) ard
Integraled Rural l0rastruclure
Developmont Program (P3DT)



INDONESIA
EAST JAVA (JAWA TIMUR) - BALI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
IUIDP BATCH I
IUIDP BATCH 11
J a v a       S e a                                                                        IUIDP BATCH III
j- \R.7 ~ \ [ SURABAYA
To Pe-b-n9
t"  ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      -                                        __ MAIN ROADS
_ 72  />   T S-\-   /Tx  - ' /   J   7  J   X   0  '  \ O                         -      RAILROADS                               7
~~~~oogkoIan ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
aM  DURA                                             , SaFudi Is.                KABUPATEN / KOTAMADYA BOUNDARIES
___                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
T~ S,<g-                                *~idor w                                                            Maduroa     Stroit
*                 0~~~~~     ~~a juk  Too
[r:r.~t                      /  WE;    X <    _    V~ XPs
=n tj/ o V,oo,X 1>  ,inUiiS' 
5-       ,no's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B' -LDj4    ed  s
IAALAYSio   Ocecn     iopArea                                                                                                                                                                                                      I(onm
MALYSI .atn Is. 13                                                                                                    I0Y415
K KALIMANTAND
S~UMA7EIA  5an                                                                                                                   
SULAWESI                                              nin                  Oca                                                                     "
9~    000 ,~lh. 0~0,,,I E;,,,   ~ 0. d.~,,0I,. ,d                                           0 1 20 30  40  50 KILOMETERS                                                           9-
1                      4.0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Th&,(10,0dS00d                                                         0   10  20
112'                                              113'                                               114'                                               15
FEBRUARY 1991



