E598
May 2002
Annex 18
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Environmental Category: B (Analysis provide through this Annex of the PAD)
1. Introduction.
The goal of the ARPA project is to support the protection of certain types of Protected
Areas under the recently passed SNUC Legislation. This law defines legally all the
different categories of protected areas that constitute the Protected Areas System and
characterizes the management rules that apply to each type of protected areas. ARPA
will support protected areas that have a clear goal of conserving and protecting
biodiversity, this includes: National Parks, Ecological Reserves (strict use protected
areas) and Extractive Reserves and Sustainable Development Reserves (indirect use
reserves) that also have the goal to conserve biodiversity as well as to support the
community leaving in them.
The overall strategy of the government is to create a mosaic of protected areas in the
Amazon Region, where the design of protected areas responds to the specific needs of
eachi,'environmental and social conditions of each area. In this manner, because the
identification of new protected areas and the definition of their category will be done
through the combination of scientific/technical information as well as socio-economic
information, the ultimate design and implementation will be more socially and
ecologically sustainable in the long-term.
The ARPA project will not support the creation of Indigenous Reserves and National
Forest Reserves, because these are been supported under the PPG7 pilot program.
National Forest Reserves unlike Extractive Reserves are allowed to carry out commercial
logging operations. In extractive reserves, only community forestry has been recently
allowed under the newly passed SNVC Law. ARPA will closely coordinate with these
project to ensure that the mosaic of protected areas is design for the Amazon Region.
The regulation of the SNUC Law is currently being drafted. Since it is not ready, the
GOB has prepared the rules that will operate under ARPA to apply the environmental and
forestry safeguards (see below). These will be spelled out in the Operational Manual. If
the Regulation passes before the end of ARPA, the Operational Manual could be revised
to apply the new rules.
Project Activities where the Environmental and Forestry safeguards could apply:
The project will not support activities that could seriously harm the environment. In
component 1, the identification and create of new protected areas will be supported. This
activity does not have any impact on the environment. The social impact of the activities
of Component 1 are discussed in Annex 16 and 17. Under component 2 the consolidation
of Parks and Reserves will be supported. However, ARPA will not participate in the
consolidation of Extractive Reserves and Sustainable Use reserves. These are been taken
11 r p~~AM&



care by other PPG7 and Government programs. According to the Law, Parks and
Ecological Reserves have a very restrictive use and therefore no environmental harm is
expected from the project activities. The management of the buffer areas around the
parks and reserves under this component (Component 2) could support a limited number
of sustainable use activities for the communities leaving around the Park. These will be
screened for environmental impacts (see next section on details of this process). In
component 3, two major activities are expected: 1) Pilot projects to test income
generating activities for PAs; 2) Endowment Fund that will support the recurrent
activities of PAs . The Endowment Fund will draw funds to pay for the recurrent
activities of Parks and Extractive Reserves. Under this component, screening procedures
will be observed to ensure that the recurrent activities and pilot sub-projects do not
violate any of the Bank safeguard policies, rules will be applied. But no or minimal
environmental impact is expected from the activities of Component 3.
Procedures to observe the environmental and forestry Policy Safeguards:
Natural Habitats Policy 0P4.404, BP 4.04: The ARPA project has no impact on the
Natural Habitat policy, since the goals of ARPA are actually to protect Natural Habitats.
Environmental Policy OP 4.01. BP 4.01: The sub-projects in the buffer zones of PAs
could support sustainable activities with minimum environmental impact. These
sustainable use activities could be supported under component 2 and 3 of ARPA. These
activities need to strengthen the conservation activities of the protected area and would be
identified in the context of the Management Plans. No disbursements for sustainable use
activities would be done until the management plans for the areas has been approved.
Once they have been identified, proposals would be prepared to request funding from
ARPA. Proposals for these sub-projects would be submitted to the Project Committee
that would assess their value and would identify whether they are eligible for ARPA
funding, if they are not eligible, the PC could recommend other funding sources. The
proposals would include a section on the environmental issues of the activities and
explain how they, either have no impact or if they have impacts, how these will be
mitigated. IBAMA or the State Environmental agency depending on whether it is a
federal or state PA will screen for the environmental impact of these proposals before
they go to the Project Committee for final approval. The screening will be done against
the list of eligible activities listed below. It is worth mentioning that the Management
Plans that will be required include a zoning plan that takes into account the ecological
fragility and biological importance of different zones within the PA and the uses that are
permitted within each zone. IBAMA or the state environmental agency will also ensure
that the proposed sustainable use activities adhere to the zoning proposal. Finally, no
roads will be built in the PAs with any of the project funds.
Because FUNBIO will be supporting the implementation of pilot sub-projects under
component 3, FUNBIO will be responsible for the screening of any of the environmental
impacts of the proposals for sustainable use activities, following the same mechanism
described above.



The Protected Areas Trust Fund will support recurrent activities in a limited number of
PAs. The eligibility criteria have been defined and they include among other
requirements that the PA has an approved management plan.
Forestry Policy OP 4.36. In extractive reserves, only community forestry has been
recently allowed under the newly passed SNUC Law. Community forestry was not
allowed in extractive reserves before the passing of this law. ARPA will ensure that any
activity of this type is done according to the Forestry Policy. In the SNUC Law, Article 7
says that the exploration of timber resources in extractive reserves will only be permitted
under sustainable schemes and in special circumstances and should be complementary to
the other activities developed within the Extractive Reserve, according to the dispositions
in the regulations and based on the Management plan from the Reserve. (7° A
exploragao comercial de recursos madeireiros so sera admitida em bases sustentaveis e
em situaq5es especiais e complementares as demais atividades desenvolvidas na Reserva
Extrativista, conforme o disposto em regulamento e no Plano de Manejo da unidade.
To ensure that the Forestry Policy is applied, the following has been agreed:
Bank's review of Management Plans under Component 1: the Unit at IBAMA
responsible for overseeing the Extractive Reserves is CNPT. Any Extractive Reserve
cannot undergo any use before a Management plan is approved. Management plans for
Extractive Reserves will be supported under ARPA. ARPA coordination will ensure that
these management plans are done according to IBAMA's rules. Management Plans will
follow similar guidelines ("Roteiro Metodologico do IBAMA") than the preparation of
management plans that DIREC uses for Parks and Reserves. The MP will consist of 4
major sections: Utilization plan, Development plan, business plan and length of time it
will cover. Detailed guidelines of these management plans for Extractive Reserves will
be included in the Operational Manual. A study carried out by CNPT shows that in the
past, Extractive reserves have the potential to generate income from the following
activities: (rubber, nuts, ecotourism, timber, environmental services, etc.). The
management plans will discuss all of the alternatives. In the Extractive Reserves
implemented by CNPt, the management of timber is always done as an artcraft more than
the selling of whole logs. The management plans are prepared by the communities living
in the areas and are approved by IBAMA. In case the communities request timber
extraction as part of a larger program of utilization of the Reserve, the section of the
utilization plan would include among other things, species inventories, mode of
extraction, quantity, reforestation procedures and if available certification schemes
planned). If the regulation of the SNUC Law is passed and changes these guidelines to
prepare Management Plans, the Bank will revise the context of the new regulation and its
effect on the current project and revise this annex accordingly to ensure that the forestry
safeguards are applied.
Eligible activities under Component 3: Once the management plans of Extractive
Reserves are approved by the Project Committee and IBAMA and they are reviewed by
the Bank, some extractive reserves might become eligible to receive funds from the
Endowment Fund. The activities eligible have been limited to surveillance and



enforcement activities in the intangible area of the reserve. Additional eligibility criteria
would be applied to select an extractive reserve for funding. The eligibility criteria are: 1)
approved management plan; 2) local inhabitants association of the reserve created; 3)
cadastre of the reserve population completed; 4) the Local Advisory Committee
established; 5) have an approved POA; 6) the PA needs to have at least 90% of its
original forest cover; 7) has fulfilled all the Bank Safeguards.
Extractive reserves will prioritize which activities will be financed from the Trust Fund.
Under the Rules of Trust Fund, only the environmental services and patrolling activities
will be eligible to receive funds from the Trust Fund.
Monitoring and evaluation
The M&E program for ARPA (component 4) includes detailed indicators on changes in
land uses and ecosystem health as well as indicator species and social indicators. The
M&E system is designed to give early warning to managers of protected areas to permit
mitigating actions. The indicators will fully reflect the project and the EMP. The M&E
program will assist and guide the development of activities to be permitted in the parks
and reserves.
Category B project is intended to be entirely positive from an environmental standpoint,
particular by promoting the conservation of biodiversity in protected natural areas.
Capacity Building in Environmental Assessment
Workshops will be held with Directors and staff of the protected areas of the project to
improve their capacity to evaluate environmental impacts, implement the legislation and
design mitigation measures. They will also be given an opportunity to improve on the
check list of activities that will require environmental assessments and activities that
should not be permitted and the methods for implementing the checklists to ensure that
the rules reflect the practical need in the field.
List of eligible sustainable use sub-projects
Listing of categories of eligible projects or activities on management and use of natural
resources, to be supported by the project.
Type                     Theme               Activity
a) Maintenance and       Forestry            Studies for definition of seedling areas
conservation of ecosystems
Production of native plants
Detection and evaluation of pests and
diseases
Control of pests and diseases
Development of sustainable management
plan



Plant production of native species for
aforestation and revegetation
Forest enrichment with desirable species
Forest fires       Infrastructure and equipment for wild fires
suppression and prevention
Studies on frequency and risks
Operation plans and opening gaps for fire
control
Training personnel for FIRE control,
suppression and management
Wildlife           Reintroduction of native species
Studies and inventories of key species of
wildlife and habitats
Studies of extractable volumes and demand:
Monitoring of populations
Design of observation trails
Construction observatory towers
Flora              Inventories and population dynamic studies
of useful species
Inventories and studies of endangered
species
Identification and establishment of
germplasm banks
Monitoring of target species
Wetlands           Hydrological studies
Inventories and population studies
Monitoring
Identification of indicative species of
ecosystem health
Ecotourism         Define areas
Feasibility studies
Program of ecotourism
Study of markets
Programas de difusi6n
Signals and displays
Certification and marketing
Training to local communities
Monitoring
Environmental      Design and produce educational materials
education
Training
Environmental Education Program
b) Restoration of ecosystems Eroded landscapes  Soil restoration and conservation
Watershed control of erosion
Cover crops or live barriers using native
species



Invasive and exotic  Eradication and control of invasive and
species            exotic species
Inventory of exotic species
Aforestation and   Defining native species for aforestation
revegetation
Select areas and techniques for aforestation
with native species
Mantenance of aforestations
Nursery construction and operation
Training
Best Practices for sustainable use of species
Follow up
Wetlands           Hydrology and water quality studies
Critical aspects of water use and demand
Water pollution sources and treatment
Restore of natural hydrodynamic
Control of exotic species
Water volume restoring
Construction of hydraulic connections
(culverts)
Wetlands monitoring
c) Sustainable Use of    Aquaculture         Development of managerial skills
biodiversity and productive
activities
Studies of population dynamics for target
species
* Pilot small model farms including waste
recycling and alternative uses
* Hatcheries
Sanitary management
Certification and marketing
Monitoring
Agroforestry       Local community training
Certification and Marketing
Studies for definition of seedling areas
* Establishment of seedling areas
* Development of sustainable management
plan
Best practices for species collection
methods (training) non wood products
Artesanal production  Development and enlargement of capacity
building
* Extraction and use of wildlife species
Certification and Markets
Quality control
Social involvement workshops
Useful Plants      Define areas



Define species and quantity for extraction
Inventory of target species
Identification of plants interesting and
useful for local communities
Ameliorate collection methods (training)
* Sustainable use of species (training)
* Nursery construction and maintenance of
medicinal and other useful plants
Certification and marketing
Wildlife            * Breeding facilities for reintroduction,
commerce and hunting interest
Rustic infrastructure
Identification of target species and
population dynamics
Management plans for species
* Extraction and use of wildlife species
Training in wildlife management and
breeding
Certification and marketing
Market access studies
Ecotourism          * Trails and infrastructure establishment
Environmental assessment for the activities type a and b will be done through a check list
, because they are not expected to have any significant negative impacts on the
environment or the biodiversity.
Project activities of type c, marked with *, include those that may have low or
significant environmental impacts, they will receive a more deep screening and, in case,
prepare full documentation to be presented to the responsible agencies in accordance with
the SNUC Legislation. The Environmental Assessment or the Management Plan needed
to get the authorization, previous to the development of the project, shall be financed by
the Bank. The rest of the projects type c are not expected to have any negative impacts.
In order to determine this list of projects that may be implemented in the natural
protected areas through SINAP II, an analysis of different documents was carried out.
Some of the documents were the World Bank Operational Policies and Directives, whose
primary objective is to ensure that Bank operations do not cause adverse impacts and that
they "do not harm". The list of projects were screened through these safeguard policies,
in order to exclude the ones that Bank doesn't support or to apply the environment
policies and procedures in order to prevent environmental impacts. These policies are
listed below:



BANK PROCEDURES
NATURAL HABITATS OP 4.04 OP 4.04
Operational Policies
Bank supports                                 Bank does not support
- Protection, maintenance and rehabilitation of natural - projects that involve the significant
habitats and their functions                  conversion or degradation of critical
natural habitats unless there are no
feasible alternatives
- natural habitat conservation and improved land use
projects sited on lands already converted
Identification of important natural habitat sites, the
ecological functions they perform, the degree of threat
to the sites, priorities for conservation measures,
managing protected areas and other natural habitats,
and monitoring and evaluating projects
FORESTRY OP 4.36
Bank supports                              Bank does not support
- improvements in the planning, monitoring, and  -Commercial logging operations
field control of forestry operations to ensure
sustainable management of the resource
-Projects environmentally protective like  -Purchase of logging equipment for use in
management of protected areas, reforestation of  primary tropical moist forest
degraded watersheds
-supportive of small farmers, farm and community -Projects that contravene applicable
forestry                                   international environmental agreements.
- preservation and light, non extractive use of
forest resources, in forest areas of high ecological
value
- controlled sustained yield forest management
-plantations only on nonforested areas or on
heavily degraded forestland
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES OD 4.20
Bank supports                                 Bank does not support
- Studies and activities to avoid or mitigate potentially - Projects that cause adverse effects to
adverse effects on indigenous people caused by  indigenous people (their dignity, human
projects                                     rights and cultural uniqueness), during
their development project



CULTURAL PROPERTY OP 4.11
Bank supports                                 Bank does not support
- Preservation and to seek to avoid their elimination  - Any project that may affect cultural
property
- Protection and enhancement of cultural properties
- In situ preservation, studies and restoration
-Structures relocation for preservation, studies and
restored on alternate sites
-Training and strengthening of institutions entrusted
with safeguarding nation's cultural patrimony
- Reconnaissance surveys on cultural undertaken by a
specialist



