ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorfd Frce of Poverty
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/28/2002                                 24177
Section I - Basic Information                                       May 28, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BRAZIL                                  Project ID: P058503
Project: Amazon Region Protected Areas (GEF)     Task Team Leader: Claudia Sobrevila
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 15, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: October 7, 2002                   IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSEN                              Sector: VY - Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall objective of the Amazon Region Protected Areas Program (ARPA) is to expand and
consolidate protected areas (PAs) in the Amazon region of Brazil. The proposed project would be the
first Phase of a 10 year ARPA program. The specific objectives of Phase #1 (the proposed project) are:
(a)    create 18 million hectares in new protected areas (9 million hectares of "strict protection" PAs
and 9 million hectares of "sustainable use" PAs);
(b)    Consolidate 7 million hectares of existing "strict protection" PAs, in addition to 9 million
hectares of the newly created "strict protection" PAs,
(c)    Establish and operate ani endowment fund for protected areas.
(d)    Establish a biodiversity monitoring and evaluation system at the PA and regional levels.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component 1: Creation of New Protected Areas
This component would finance jche creation of 18 millions hectares of new PAs (9 million hectares of
"strict protection" PAs and 9 million hectares of "sustainable use" PAs). The areas will be created
following strict selection criteria and participatory methodology described in details in the project
document. The major activities under this component are: (a) the collection of biological, social and
economic data in the Amazon Region in order to select new protected areas to be created based on
existing information, databases and up-dated satellite images; (b) the preparation of studies, consultations
and proposals for creating new PAs. These studies will include environmental and social studies carried
locally, land tenure assessments, local consultations to present the proposal for the decrees and
submitting the decree for publication; (c) the on-the-ground establishment of new PAs once they have
been declared. This activity will include demarcation procedures, implementation of land tenure plans
and land acquisition where needed, preparation of basic protection plans, construction of the minimum
infrastructure and purchase of riinimal equipment and personnel training. It is expected that 10 new



2
ISDS
protected areas would be established on the ground. The full implementation of these areas will be' part of
Component 2. This component will be implemented by MMA, IBAMA, States/municipalities (for state
or municipal PAs) and FUNBICI.
Component 2: Consolidation (of Protected Areas
This component will support acitivities in a minimum of 10 new "strict protection" PAs (approximately 9
million hectares) and 12 existing "strict protection" PAs (7 million hectares). The criteria for selection
of these PAs included the following: absence of overlap with Indigenous Lands, ecological
representation, geographical distribution, existence of potential partnerships with local NGOs, and
degree of threat. The major activities to be supported include: a) demarcation and land regularizations,
including land tenure assessments, baseline land registry surveys, ground surveys, private property
infrastructure surveys, and mapping. A detailed land acquisition plan will be prepared and government
funds will be used to finance land purchase where needed; b) basic protection activities, including
infrastructure, equipment and core staff to secure services of protection and community outreach, before
the preparation and implementation of management plans; c) preparation and implementation of a
management plans (MPs) for new and existing PAs; d) community participation for the establishment
and consolidation of PAs. The activities will include, the establishment and/or operation of PAs
Councils and partnerships with 'NGOs for PA management, among others; e) training program to
strengthen the administrative and financial management of PAs. IBAMA, the States and Municipalities
(for state and municipal PAs) anid FUNBIO will be responsible for this component
Component 3: Long Term Sustainability of Protected Areas
This component will support the establishment of an Endowment Fund for the PA system in the Amazon
region, the Protected Areas Fund (FAP). The main activities under this sub-component are: a) creation
of an administrative, financial, and legal structure for FAP; b) support to recurrent costs of existing PAs;
and c) fundraising strategy for capitalization of the FAP. The PAs of Strict Protection consolidated by
the Project and that have clearly defined administrative needs can be supported with resources from FAP
for covering recurrent costs. The PAs of sustainable use (Resex and RDS) will be eligible for receiving
support from FAP for surveillance and enforcement activities in their intangible areas. Strict eligibility
criteria for the protected areas that will enter the program have been set and will be part of an
Operational Manual to be agreed before the project Grant is effective. In addition, this component will
support the preparation of studies and sub-projects aimed at defining and testing adequate
revenue-generating mechanisms for PA sustainability. A total of 10 sub-projects would be supported.
FUNBIO will be responsible for the implementation of this component and the administration of FAP.
Component 4: Protected Area Monitoring
This component will support the establishment of a biodiversity monitoring system and analysis of new
and existing PAs. The project monitoring would include information on: (a) biodiversity status (key
indicator groups), (b) pressure on ecosystems (levels of threat), (c) water resources and climate, (d)
island effect (levels of connectivity), and (e) management effectiveness. The monitoring system will
target five existing PAs and will incorporate the newly created PAs as they are implemented. This
component will support training activities for PA staff at ground level and central agencies (IBAMA and
state environmental agencies) on data collection and implementation of the biodiversity monitoring
system, as well as dissemination activities aimed at preparing local communities to access and to provide
information relevant to PA monitoring. IBAMA and FUNBIO will be responsible for this component.



3
ISDS
Component 5: Project Coordination and Management
This component would support the overall coordination of the various components in MMA, IBAMA
and FUNBIO and would ensure that the following management activities are carried out: (i) preparation
of Annual Operating Plans; (ii) preparation of supervision reports or any request for information by
donors or the Bank; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of project activities; (iv) financial management and
accountability; and (v) assurance that subsidiary agreements and financial execution are carried out
effectively. In addition, this component will support the operating costs of the various project
committees.
A summary of GEF financing of the project's components is presented below.
Indicative           GEF-financi       % of
Component              Direct Costs   % of        ng      GEF-financin
(US$M)       Total    (US$M)           g
1. Creation of new PAs           18.1         26%       4.7          26%Xo
2. Consolidation of existing PA's  25.0       37%       5.6          22%
3. Long term sustainability of PAs  16.6      25%      13.3          80%
4. Protected Area Monitoring      2.3          3%       2.1          91%
5. Project Coordination and       6.1          9%       4.3          70%
Management.
Total    68.1          100%     30.0         44%
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is located in the Brazilian Amazon Region. The priority areas for creating new PAs were
identified through a workshop organized by a consortium of NGOs, including Socio-Environmental Institute
(ISA), the Amazon Working Group (GTA), the Institute for Man and Environment in the Amazon
(IMAZON), the Institute for Environmental Research in the Amazon (IPAM) and the Institute for Society,
Population and Nature (ISPN) that convened 226 participants representing the government, academic sector,
civil society, grass root organizations and indigenous groups. Of the 23 ecoregions represented in the
Amazon region, 9 ecoregions were selected as the priority areas for the first four years of the Project
(Gurupa varzea, Madeira-Tapajos moist forests, Mato Grosso tropical dry forests, Negro-Branco moist
forests, Rio Negro campinarana, Southwes Amazon moist forests, Tapajos-Xingu moist forests,
Uatuma-Trombetas moist forests, Xingu-Tocantins-Araguaia mois forests). Within these ecoregions,
potential polygons have been selected and will be further evaluated during implementation to ensure that
new proposed protected areas aie ecologically and socially viable and sustainable.
The priority areas to consolidate existing protected areas include: Parque Nacional Serra do Divisor, Parque
Nacional Jau, Parque Nacional 'Virua, Parque Nacional Cabo Orange, Estacion Ecologica Juami-Japura,
Reserva Biologica Tapirape, Reserva Biologica Trombetas, Reserva Biologica Jaru.
B. Check Environmental Class.fication: B (Partial Assessment)



4
ISDS
Comments: There is no major a(lverse environmental impacts expected as a result of this project. The
Category B is designed to be entirely positive from an environmental standpoint, particularly because
ARPA's main goal is to create and consolidate protected areas in the Amazon region. Despite the largely
positive and neutral project environmental impacts, some sustainable use sub-projects in the buffer areas of
the PAs will be screened for environmental safeguards before any investments are made. The borrower
submitted an Environmental Annex on April 23, 2002 prior to appraisal. Key provisions of the
Environmental Annex will be incorporated within the project's Operational Manual.
C Safeguard Policies Trigered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     Yes   .No     TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        Yes    No    3TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                 Yes    No   3 TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                   Yes C No   C TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     Yes C No    3 TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      l Yes C3 No    3 TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 Yes 'UNo     .TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                  Yes K No   l TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*           3 Yes 3 No    . TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        3' Yes C No   C TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to ob ain necessary data.
II.D.Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project triggers OP 4.01, but the impacts are not expected to be significant. Potential negative
environmental impacts will tbe assessed by properly screening and monitoring sub-projects. See section B
of this document.
The project triggers OD 4.20 since the project is located in the Brazilian Amazon where the indigenous
population is significant. Whenever implementation of the ARPA project has a significant direct or
indirect impact on indigenous people, even if the impact is positive, the Indigenous Peoples Plan will be
applied. The Government has submitted a draft Indigenous Plan on April 23, 2002 and it has been
publicly disclosed on May I 'i, prior to appraisal. The Draft Plan ensures that, when creating new
Protected Areas the project will undergo screening procedures to avoid overlap with Indigenous Lands or
Claims. These detailed procedures would be incorporated in the Operational Manual. In addition, when
PAs border Indigenous Land:3, the project will support, as part of the Management Plans of the PA, the
development of activities to support the indigenous people living near the PAs. These activities will be
prepared with their full participation and will be financed from other government sources such as the
Rain Forest Pilot Program (PPG7). The Draft Plan will undergo further clarifications and a finalized
version will be posted again prior to negotiations of the project.
The project triggers OP 4.12. The National System of Conservation Units Law (SNUC, 2000) requires that
people in three categories of protected areas be resettled. The Ministry of Environment is committed to
building and consolidating a PA system without removing or disrupting their lives. In view of the



5
ISDS
legislative framework, MMA. has submitted a Draft Resettlement Policy document that lays out the
procedures that will be put in place under the project to deal with potential resettlements. These
procedures are consistent wilh the World Bank's Resettlement Guidelines (OP4.12), even though MMA's
policies will very likely make it unnecessary to have to apply a Resettlement Policy under this project. In
addition, there might be a number of cases, where local populations might lose access to use and exploit
natural resources to which they previously had access. Under these circumstances, a Draft Process
Framework (which is part of the Draft Resettlement Policy document) has submitted by the Governement
and the procedures laid out in the document would be applied to mitigate and compensate the loss in
access to natural resources use. The draft Resettlement Policy and Process Framework consistent with
the Bank's guidelines has been submitted by the Government on April 15, 2002 and has been publicly
disclosed on May 15, 2002. This Draft Policy will undergo a few clarifications and a finalized version
will be posted again prior to negotiations of the project.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None
I1.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not required
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environmental safeguard: IBAMA or the State Environmental agency depending on whether it is a
federal or state PA will screen for the environmental impact of the sub-projects in the buffer areas of PAs
under component 2, before they go to the Project Committee for final approval. The screening will be
done against a predefined list of'eligible activities. It is worth mentioning that the Management Plans
that will be required include a zoning plan that takes into account the ecological fragility and biological
importance of different zones within the PA and the uses that are permitted within each zone. IBAMA or
the state environmental agency will also ensure that the proposed sustainable use activities adhere to the
zoning proposal. Finally, no roads will be built in the PAs with any of the project funds. Because
FUNBIO will be supporting the implementation of pilot sub-projects under component 3, FUNBIO will
be responsible for the screening of any of the environmental impacts of the proposals for sustainable use
activities, following the same mechanism described above.
Indigenous Peoples Plan. A Project Committee and a Conflict Meditation Committee (CMC) will be
established and will operate under the Ministry of Environment to oversee that the Indigenous Plan is
implemented. The purposes of the CMC is to assist the project's executive coordination in the following
issues: (i) negotiate and propose potential solutions to social and indigenous people issues related to the
creation and implementation of protected areas, (ii) act as a forum to discuss and resolve issues related to
traditional and indigenous popullations inside and outside existing protected areas of strict protection.
This core group will be constituted by the project coordinator representing MMA and representatives
from FUNAI, IBAMA (CNPT and DIREC) and INCRA. The detailed functions and operational
guidelines for the CMC will be presented in the Project Operational Manual. In addition, the Ministry of
Environment will sign an agreernent with the National Foundation for Indigenous Affairs (FUNAI) that
will dictate the implementation of the relevant Indigenous People Plan that is an integral part of ARPA.
Resettlement Policy Framework and Process Framework. The Project Committee and the CMC will



6
ISDS
oversee all aspects of the project, including the application of the Resettlement Policy agreed with the
government. In addition, if aspects of this policy apply to traditional communities, IBAMA will carry
out the activities agreed. If other inhabitants need to be considered, then INCRA through an agreement
with MMA satisfactory to the Bank will oversee that the procedures in the Resettlement policy are
applied.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During preparation, the project has been framed as a collaborative effort among stakeholders. An
Advisory Committee has been operating since earlier stages of preparation to oversee project design.
The Committee comprises MMA, IBAMA, WWF, FUNBIO and social NGOs, National Council of
Rubber Tappers (CNS) and Amazon Working Group (GTA). In addition, NGOs have been consulted
during this initial organizing phase and include Funatura, USAID, Institute for Society, Population and
Nature (ISPN), the Nature Conservancy (TNC), the British council, GTZ, PNUD, and Socio
Environmental Institute (ISA). MMA sponsored a key social forum, the Macapa Workshop, to establish
priority areas for Amazonian biodiversity conservation and to identify actions supporting regional
sustainable development. The Workshop was attended by a cross section of community, NGO,
indigenous, private sector, governmental and environmental specialist stakeholders. Workshop results
underpin the ongoing PA selection process. The project itself is also being framed as a highly
collaborative and participatory exercise to ensure ownership of beneficiaries and stakeholders and
facilitate efficient implementation. Participation of stakeholders is programmed in each of the five
components as summarized below.
ARPA has been discussed more widely over the last two years. The proposal has been submitted for
comments to Social Organizations in the Amazon (GTA, CNS, CONTAG, COIAB and ASMUBIP) and
to FUNBIO's Board who has a broad NGO representation. Other participatory processes have taken
place since the early phase of project development and help test the procedures for continued public
consultation during project implementation. Two workshops were organized, one in Rond6nia and one
in Roraima financed by the WWF/WB Alliance program to create a set of new areas and develop a
methodology for public consultation during project implementation. These workshops were carried out
in October and November 2000. One case study involved the creation of an indirect use area (Park) and
of two extractive reserves in Costa Marques, Rond6nia. The second case study involved the preparatory
workshop for the consolidation of a mosaic of protected areas of indirect use (parks and ecological
stations) in Caracarai, Roraima. In both cases, the methodology was assessed by a variety of actors and
found appropriate for the proposed objectives of ARPA. The project documentation has an annex that
describes the participatory methodology to be used under ARPA that was based on the result of these
workshops.
The government recently gave one additional seats to social NGOs in the Project Committee. The PC that
will operate during project implementation has 6 government (SECEX/MMA, SCA/MMA, SBF/MMA,
IBAMA State Forum of Secretaries of Environment of the Amazon Region and Municipalities) and 6
from civil society (2 social NGO, 2 environmental NGOs and I FUNBIO and I donor).
E. Safeguards Classiflcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks



7
ISDS
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguardi policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
] S3. -No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Available  4/23/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Available  5/15/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Available  5/15/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Available  4/15/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Available  5/15/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Available  5/15/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Available  4/23/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Available  5/15/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Available  5/15/2002
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any cf the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Claudia Sobrevila                           May 14, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Daniel R. Gross/Person/World Bank      May 14, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2.: Judith M. Lisansky/Person/World Bank   May 14, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                         May 14, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:      John Redwood                                May 14, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-H ----- - -' ACK   r$HTbIAP        5HOWCASE






