The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT NO. 16203
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2404-ALB)
January 6, 1997
Agriculture and Regional Development Operations Division
Central and Southeastern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1987-90  1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
(August)
US$1.00=Leks    8       14       75      102     95       93        109
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CIF   Cost Insurance Freight
CIP   Critical Imports Project
EC    European Community
ESAF   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU PHARE    European Union Assistance Program for Eastern Europe
FAO    United Nations, Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
IMF   International Monetary Fund
KESH    Albanian Electroenergetic Corporation (Formerly General Directorate for
Power, DPE)
MAF   Ministry of Agriculture and Food (formerly Ministry of Agriculture)
MIS   Management Information System
MoF   Ministry of Finance (previously Ministry of Finance and Economy)
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
SAR    Staff Appraisal Report
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
Vice President               Johannes Linn
Director                     Jean-Michel Severino
Division Chief/Manager       Michele de Nevers
Task Managers                Ibrahim Hackaj/Kathryn Funk



FOR OFF1CIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
Credit 2404-ALB
CONTENTS
Preface  ..........................................    i
Evaluation Summary ...........................................  iii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Project Origin and Objectives ....................................   1
B.      Achievement of Objectives  .....................................    3
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........            .....................   7
D.    Project Sustainability  ......................................                                  8
E.  Bank Performance ....................................... 8
F.    Borrower Performance  ......................................                                    9
G.    Assessment of Outcome  ......................................   9
H.    Future of this Operation and future operations  ........              .................   9
I.     Key Lessons Learned  ......................................                                   10
Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ......................................  12
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .          ...................................   13
Table 3:   Project Timetable  ..........................................   14
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  .................   14
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ...........................   15
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation  ..............................   15
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project .....................................   15
Table 8A: Project Costs  .        ............................................   16
Table 8B: Project Financing .          ..........................................  17
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits  ...................................   17
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants  .....................................   18
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................   19
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ...................................   19
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .....................................   20
Appendix:
A.   Project Implementation Unit Contribution to the ICR
B.   Letter from Government of Albania Minister of Finance on the ICR
Map:        IBRD 28467
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oficial duties. Its contents may not othenise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
Credit 2404-ALB
PREFACE
This is an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Critical Imports Project in Albania,
for which Credit 2404-ALB in the amount of SDR 30.0 million (US$41.1 million equivalent) was
approved on June 25, 1992, and made effective on July 6, 1992. It was the first IDA-financed project
in Albania, responding to its urgent need to finance critical imports during the emergency situation that
followed the collapse of communism in 1989-1991.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1996. It is the second IDA credit to close in Albania.' It was
fully disbursed on July 20, 1996, and the last withdrawal application, documenting full recovery of the
Special Account, was received on September 4, 1996. As a result of SDR appreciation against the US
dollar, US$42.4 million in IDA funds were spent. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Swiss
Government (CHF 4.0 million, about US$2.6 million), and the Government of Netherlands (DFL 4.5
million, about US$2.5 million). In total, the project's foreign exchange expenditures amounted to about
US$47.5 million, about 9 percent more than expected at appraisal. This increase does not represent a
"cost overrun," but rather an increase in cofinancing and SDR appreciation.
This ICR was prepared by Mr. Ibrahim Hackaj, Project Officer, World Bank Resident Mission
in Albania, with the assistance of Mr. Caspar Warnaars, Seniors Operations Officer, World Bank
Resident Mission in Albania, and Ms. Kathryn Funk, EC1/2AR. Mr. Richard Hamilton, Sr. Energy
Economist, EC2ET, prepared the analysis of the Power Component. It was reviewed by Ms. Michele de
Nevers, Chief, EC1/2AR, Mr. Julius Varallyay, Country Officer, EC2DR, and Mr. Franz Kaps, Project
Adviser, EC2DR. The Project Implementation Unit at the Ministry of Finance provided data and
information essential for the preparation of the ICR, and it provided separate comments that are included
as Appendix A to this document.
The Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project closed on June 30, 1995 (ICR dated June 5, 1996).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
Credit 2404-ALB
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
i.    The project, the first International Development Association (IDA)-financed operation in Albania,
was identified and prepared in late 1991 and early 1992, at which time the Albanian economy was in a
deep social and economic crisis following the collapse of communism. The project was prepared and
processed rapidly by the Government of Albania and the World Bank-it was approved by IDA's Board
of Directors on June 25, 1992, and declared effective on July 6, 1992, only eight weeks after the
formation of Albania's first democratically elected Government. (para. 1-4)
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
ii.    The project's objective was to help Albania maintain and increase capacity utilization and
production in key economic sectors during the crucial first years of Albania's transition in 1993 and 1994.
This was to be achieved by importing and distributing to end users critical imports amounting to US$43.7
million, including SDR 30.0 million (US$41.1 million equivalent) of IDA funds. Critical imports were
defined as imports considered necessary for preventing the breakdown (or further deterioration) of the
situation in the key sectors of agriculture, power, and transport.
iii.    Under the Agriculture Component, the list of imports was concentrated on the provision of
inputs for the production of wheat and maize (the two most important crops), vegetables, poultry and
eggs, and related irrigation and mechanical equipment. The primary objective of the Power Component
was to improve the reliability of the electric power supply and to reduce the occurrence of power system
outages through limited rehabilitation of the country's existing power system facilities. The Transport
Component focused on shipment and effective use of equipment necessary for the implementation of the
agricultural and power components and for facilitating the distribution of essential goods. The
Administration Component of the project consisted in financing imports of office equipment for the
ministries and public entities involved in the administration of key sectors. About 12 percent of foreign
currency project funds were set aside for a General Rehabilitation Component. This was to allow the
financing of critical expenditures to be identified during the implementation of the economic rehabilitation
program initiated by the newly elected Government.
iv.    The Critical Imports Project (CIP) was highly relevant to Albania's needs in 1992 and 1993, as
clearly reflected in the Country Assistance Strategy for Albania presented to the Board in August 1993,
which cited the project as one of the most important elements supporting Albania's initial comprehensive
programs of stabilization and systemic reforms. (para. 5-7)
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
v.    Overall, the project produced very positive (although unquantifiable) benefits and the project's
objective was substantially achieved, despite the rapid preparation of the project and the difficult
implementation environment in Albania in 1992. The main reasons for success were the strong
commitment by the Albanian Government; an effective dialogue between the Government and the Bank;



- iv -
effective coordination between the Bank and other donors with import and humanitarian aid programs;
and flexibility during project implementation in response to a rapidly transforming economy.
vi.    As to be expected with a first project to a new borrower in a complex and difficult transition
environment, there were some implementation shortcomings, mainly: (a) insufficient local financing for
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food; (b) unclear Government policy on payment of customs duties,
leading to a bottleneck of goods at the port; (c) difficulties in selling some goods (especially agricultural
items, a small part of which remain unsold) to private end users at the full CIF landed price; and (d)
unfamiliarity with World Bank procurement procedures, leading to some disputes on contract awards.
Most of these issues were resolved over time due to the high quality and extensive dialogue between the
Bank and the Borrower. Some of the difficulties experienced reflect the trade-offs between timeliness and
urgency on the one hand and thorough preparation and meticulous implementation on the other, between
which the CIP was able to strike the right balance.
vii.   Other than a slow start for the agriculture component, which was subsequently restructured and
scaled back, the project experienced no significant delays. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU), the first
of its kind in Albania, was established in the Ministry of Finance to carry out procurement and monitor
project execution. Because competitive procurement procedures were completely unknown in Albania
prior to the project, Bank procurement staff undertook special efforts to provide procurement training
and support from the outset, and an expatriate procurement adviser was hired under the project for the
first 15 months, after which the PIU staff were able to carry out procurement and even advise other
projects and ministries. During implementation, continuous discussions took place between the
Government and the Bank on procurement and disbursement issues, and considerable flexibility was
shown by both sides to speed up the process and respond to the emerging needs of Albania. The Bank's
early emphasis on procurement discipline helped to create a procurement "culture" and set the stage for
the passage of a transparent public procurement law in July 1995. (paras. 8-16)
viii.  Significant reallocations of project financing took place during the implementation of the project
as sector requirements clarified or changed, or to avoid overlap with other donors providing emergency
assistance. The first and main reallocation took place in early 1993, when the foreign financing allocated
to the Agriculture Component was modified and scaled back. Of the various subcomponents, the
irrigation subcomponent (which was increased to about US$6.7 million) was particularly effective: urgent
repairs were carried out affecting some 60,000 hectares, and the operating framework and regulations
for Water User Associations were established. An IDA-financed Irrigation Rehabilitation Project is now
building upon the early work under the CIP. After falling drastically, by 20-30 percent over 1989-91,
the agriculture sector rebounded by growing 18 percent in 1992, 14 percent in 1993, and 7 percent in
1994. (paras. 17-21)
ix.    The Power Component became the largest component after a reallocation of funds, bringing the
total foreign expenditures to US$15.9 million (34 percent of the total foreign project expenditures),
including CHF 4.0 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) provided by the Government of Switzerland. It
financed a diverse list of equipment for urgent repairs and maintenance on the country's three main
hydropower stations, the transmission system, and the distribution systems of Tirana, Durres, and
Shkoder. As a result, power outages and total blackouts became less frequent, and damages to
transformers and cables were reduced. (paras. 22-26)
x.    Under the Transport Component, the proceeds of the credit were used to finance equipment and
spare parts amounting to US$6.6 million. The imports included equipment for the Port of Durres and
spare parts for trucks and buses, which helped to prevent a break-down of the port's off-loading capacity
and which ensured a continued high transport capacity during the time when food aid grants needed to
be distributed quickly throughout the country. (para. 27)



- v -
xi.   The General Rehabilitation Component amounted to US$10.6 million, 22 percent of total
foreign financing. In early 1993, General Rehabilitation funds were allocated to the health sector for
improving patient transport and care (through import of ambulances and hospital equipment and supplies),
to the education sector (for window glass for schools, school repair and electrical supply, paper and
printing supplies for textbooks, and desk-top publishing equipment), and to the construction sector (for
trucks and tankers, and pumping equipment). The General Administration Component, which amounted
to US$1.2 million, contributed to much needed skills building in Albania by financing consultancies and
foreign training. (paras. 28-30)
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FuTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
xii.   Both Bank and Borrower performance are considered highly satisfactory, and the outcome of the
project is fully satisfactory. The project's main objective was achieved: it provided timely financing for
imports at a critical juncture of Albania's economic transformation. By doing so, the project helped to
avoid further collapse of the production system, and it provided crucial support to the first democratic
Government to implement an unambiguous systemic reform process and macroeconomic stabilization
program that reached-even surpassed-expectations. During the project implementation period, spiraling
inflation was reversed, the Government's budget deficit was slashed, and the severe fall in production
was halted-real GDP growth was 10 percent in 1993, 9 percent in 1994, and 9 percent in 1995, led by
a rapid rebound of the agricultural sector. In addition, the Bank's willingness and ability to respond
quickly to Albania's needs bought the Bank credibility with the Government and receptiveness to the
Bank's advice. This set the stage for a good working relationship between the Bank and the Government,
and the development of a comprehensive and high performing project portfolio. (paras. 3141)
xiii.  Due to the nature of the project (provision of critical imports to end users), there is no plan for
the project's future operation. However, the policy and sector dialogues that took place between the
Government of Albania and the Bank during implementation strengthened the quality of the Bank's
lending portfolio. Subsequent IDA-financed projects are assisting to sustain activities initiated with CIP
imports. (para. 42-43)
xiv.   CIP experiences and lessons are generally consistent with those of other recent emergency import
components in transition countries. Findings and lessons learned are:
(a) A positive-list emergency import project can be an effective tool for addressing urgent
production bottlenecks while simultaneously supporting a reform process, provided that there
is built-in project flexibility and substantial Government commitment and proactive Bank
supervision to respond quickly to the changing needs.
(b) Timeliness is paramount. The Bank's responsiveness to Albania's needs in 1992 and 1993
won it considerable credibility with the Government and resulted in a close and productive
Government-Bank relationship over those years. To some extent, there are tradeoffs between
timeliness and urgency on the one hand and thorough preparation and meticulous
implementation on the other.
(c) The project included urgent imports to be sold to private end users. Considering that Albania
was going through a difficult transition and that income and demand were limited, the
project's design should have taken into consideration that imports to the private sector may
not sell rapidly at full CIF landed prices. From the outset, auctions may have been a more
appropriate way to distribute goods quickly, while simultaneously building a private suppliers
network.
(d) Emergency import projects-like all other projects-require the establishment of accounting
and management information systems (MIS). A MIS system for the CIP would have resulted



- vi -
in better tracking of local project costs and of the distribution of goods to end users.
(e) Unplanned but important project benefits included (a) knowledge and skills transfer
(especially procurement); and (b) development of sectoral dialogues, leading to a
strengthening of the subsequent loan portfolio.
(f) An import project in a new borrower country requires early attention to procurement,
including hands-on training and support by Bank procurement staff and the appointment of
project procurement advisers. This early emphasis on economic and efficient procurement
discipline can set the stage for the development of a transparent procurement environment in
the country.
(g) Higher than average resources are needed when working with new borrowers, especially in
transition countries. Bank effort is required to assist the Government with specific
implementation issues, as well as to redesign project components in the face of emerging
realities. The CIP was not only processed and approved on a fast-track basis, but continued
to be closely supervised during implementation, which was a factor in its success.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
Credit 2404-ALB
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND OBJECTIVES
1.    In 1992, Albania was in the midst of a serious social and economic crisis following the collapse
of communism and a most authoritarian regime. The communist regime began to disintegrate in 1990,
leading to two years of chaos. GNP fell by 10 percent in 1990, 30 percent in 1991, and a further 10
percent in 1992, leaving Albania with a 1992 GDP per capita of about US$290 (Atlas methodology).
Agriculture, the traditional foundation of the Albania economy and by far the largest sector of the
economy in terms of employment and output, suffered from the collapse of agricultural cooperatives and
state farms, shortages of fertilizers and other inputs, and the breakdown of the supply and marketing
system. Industrial production fell sharply due to obsolete equipment and prolonged shortages of raw
materials and spare parts. Water and electricity supply was intermittent due to lack of system maintenance
and parts.
2.    The Bank's first economic mission visited Albania in June 1991, Albania joined the World Bank
Group on October 15, 1991, and contacts deepened following an initial management visit to Albania in
early January 1992. After the first democratic elections in Albania in March 1992, a complete economic,
political, and social transformation began in earnest. As a result of the preparatory work in late 1991 and
early 1992, plans for a stabilization program with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and a Critical
Imports Project (CIP) with the World Bank were ready practically the very day the new Government took
office. In July 1992, Albania launched a macroeconomic stabilization program agreed with and supported
by the IMF-practically all prices were freed, all quantitative restrictions on imports were lifted, the
currency was allowed to float, tariffs were lowered to an average of 20 percent, the budget deficit was
cut in half, Central Bank credits to state enterprises were curtailed, and tight overall monetary targets
were strictly enforced. In agriculture, the Government adopted a medium-term reform program designed
to promote agricultural growth and development, based on the initial and rapid privatization of
agricultural cooperative land, which began in mid-1991.
3.    To support the reform program during this time and prevent the further deterioration of
productive sectors, Albania urgently needed imports. Agriculture and hydroelectric power were the two
main sectors identified at that time as requiring critical imports. Lack of spare parts for road transport
and port equipment also represented an important bottleneck, which could prevent inputs from reaching
end users on time. Consequently, the CIP, the first International Development Association (IDA)-financed
project in Albania, was designed to address the urgent import needs of these three sectors-agriculture,
power, and transport-while also providing for flexibility to address other, yet unidentified, critical
import needs.
4.    The project was prepared and processed very rapidly by the Government of Albania and the
World Bank. An Initial Executive Project Summary meeting was held on December 17, 1991. The project
was appraised from April 6-18, 1992, negotiated from May 21-22, 1992, and approved by IDA's Board



- 2 -
of Directors on June 25, 1992. A Project Preparation Facility was signed on May 18, 1992, enabling the
Project Implementation Unit to be up and running by the time of project effectiveness, on July 6, 1992,
only eight weeks after the formation of the new Government.
5.    Project Objectives. According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), dated June 5, 1992, the
project objective was to help Albania maintain and increase capacity utilization and production in
agriculture, power, and transport over 12 to 18 months (the period 1993 to 1994). This was to be
achieved by importing and distributing critical imports to end users. Critical imports were defined as
imports considered necessary for preventing the breakdown (or the further deterioration) of the situation
in productive sectors.
6.    The project intended to finance the following:
(a) Agriculture Component (48 percent of total foreign cost)
* Urgent inputs for crop production in 1992/93;
* Urgent inputs for poultry/egg production in 1992/93 (breeding stock, feed maize);
* Spare parts and supplies for agricultural mechanization;
* Spare parts and equipment for irrigation rehabilitation.
(b) Power Component (28 percent of total foreign cost)
* Materials and equipment for repairs of generating plants;
* Materials and equipment for rehabilitation of the transmission system;
* Materials and equipment for rehabilitation of the distribution system in Tirana, Shkoder,
and Durres;
* Equipment for improvements in the dispatching/monitoring system.
(c) Transport Component (9 percent of total foreign cost)
S Spare parts, batteries, and tires for the Ministry of Transportation truck fleet; spare parts
and equipment for the Port of Durres and for the railway telecommunication system.
(d) General Rehabilitation Component (12 percent of total foreign cost)
- Goods and services (to be identified) for the rehabilitation of priority sectors of the
economy, as agreed between the Government and the Bank.
(e) Technical Assistance and General Administration (3 percent of total foreign cost)
* Office equipment for ministries and public administration;
* Technical assistance for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), the reorganization of the
irrigation system, the Agricultural Bank, and the use/application of pesticides.
7.     Evaluation of Objectives. The project's objective was ambitious and not precisely monitorable
(it is virtually impossible to quantify ex-post whether the project "maintained or increased capacity
utilization" in the targeted sectors). Although the stated objective was perhaps too broad, there is no
denying that an emergency import project was highly relevant to Albania's needs in 1992 and 1993, as
clearly reflected in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Albania presented to the Board in August
1993. The CAS cited the CIP as one of the important elements supporting Albania's initial comprehensive
program of stabilization and systemic reforms: "By mid-1992, the IDA-financed Critical Imports Project,
a Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF, and extensive external financing from the EC and other G-24
donors were in place." The priority areas outlined in the CAS were intended to support wide-ranging
structural reforms that build on the early supply response promoted by the CIP.



- 3 -
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Overall, the project produced very positive (although unquantifiable) benefits and the project's
objective was substantially achieved, despite the rapid preparation of the project and the difficult
implementation environment in Albania in 1992. The main reasons for success were (a) the strong
commitment by the Albanian Government; (b) an effective dialogue between the Government and the
Bank; (c) effective coordination between the Bank and other donors with import programs; and (d)
flexibility during project implementation in response to a rapidly transforming economy.
9.    Project Management. Under the General Administration Component, a small Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), the first of its kind in Albania, was established in the Ministry of Finance
to implement the project on behalf of the Government. The PIU's main functions were to: (a) arrange
for the procurement of all goods and equipment (expect for the Power Component); (b) assure the proper
allocation and distribution of goods to end users; (c) monitor overall project execution; and (d) maintain
project accounts.
10.   Procurement. As in other former command-economy countries, competitive procurement
procedures were completely unknown in Albania at the time of project effectiveness, creating a serious
impediment to efficient IDA lending. Although the project financed an expatriate procurement adviser
for the first 15 months, World Bank procurement staff was instrumental right from the beginning in
providing procurement seminars and workshops, one-on-one training, and even considerable
"handholding" during the initial project phase. As a result, procurement under the project proceeded
reasonably well. Contracts were awarded through a variety of methods, including International
Competitive Bidding (about 32 percent of contracts), Limited International Bidding (about 7 percent of
contracts), and International Shopping (about 61 percent of contracts). Two general procurement problems
were experienced during implementation: (a) the ministries involved often had difficulty in preparing
high-quality technical specifications, because of their unfamiliarity with technical specifications and
competitive procurement in general; and (b) also due to their unfamiliarity with the philosophy of
competitive, transparent procurement procedures, ministries sometimes objected to the bid evaluations
and argued to award bids to other than the lowest evaluated bidders (for example, preferring "western"
products over "eastern" products). These problems resulted in unnecessary lengthening of the delivery
time of critical items (such as trucks, excavators, and port equipment) and in the cancellation of a few
items (including coal for heating and stoves for schools).
11.   While not a pre-identified project objective, the project resulted in substantial transfer of skills
in project management, particularly procurement. Largely due to the special efforts of World Bank
procurement staff, the PIU and the other Government agencies involved in project implementation became
well versed in Bank procurement procedures. The PIU subsequently played an important role in
administering other IDA-financed projects and in guiding and training project implementation units
established in other ministries. Furthermore, the Bank's emphasis on procurement discipline and
practices of economic and efficient procurement in the context of this first IDA-financed project in
Albania helped to sensitize Government officials to the need for transparent and economic procurement
and led to the development of a procurement "culture." From the outset of the project, the Bank
encouraged the Government to introduce a public procurement law, and the Bank fully supported the
Government's efforts to do so. As a result, Albania is today one of the countries that has a transparent
public procurement law, based on the United Nations Commission for International Trade Law model
of public procurement law, passed by Parliament on July 27, 1995, and effective since January 1, 1996.
12.   Project Financing. The project was estimated at appraisal at US$55.3 million-US$11.5 million
of local costs and US$43.7 million of foreign costs, of which the IDA credit would finance SDR 30.0
million (US$41.1 million equivalent) and the Swiss Government would provide CHF 4.0 million (about
US$2.6 million) in parallel grant financing for the Power Component only. In October 1992, the
Netherlands Government made available additional cofinancing of DFL 4.5 million (about US$2.5



- 4 -
million). As a result of SDR appreciation and the additional cofinancing, total foreign costs under the
project amounted to US$47.5 million, 9 percent more than anticipated at appraisal. Foreign financing
by component (original allocation in SAR and final expenditures) is shown in Table 1.
13.    Local Costs. According to the SAR, the project's local costs were estimated at US$11.5 million,
of which US$9.2 million would be paid by end users (including import duties of US$4.9 million and
distribution and other local costs of US$4.3 million), and US$2.3 million would be financed by
Government (for domestically-produced inputs such as cement required for the use of the critical
imports). However, no mechanisms were put in place under the project to track local-currency project
expenditures by the ministries, so the actual local financing is not known. The Albanian Electroenergetic
Corporation (KESH) specialists estimate that local costs for installing imported power equipment
amounted to 6 to 10 percent (US$1.0 million to US$1.5 million) of foreign costs. Only the Agriculture
Component was significantly affected by shortages of local financing for cement and fuel, resulting in
delays in irrigation rehabilitation work.
Table 1: Component Financing (Foreign Costs Only)
Category/Sector    Original Allocation in SAR"     Final Expenditures
US$ million    % of Total   US$ million   % of Total
equivalent                equivalent
1. Agriculture                 21.2      48%             13.1      28%
A. Crop Production            11.2      26%              3.1       7%
Program
B.Poultry/Egg Production       4.9       11%             0.0       0%
Program
C. Mechanical Equipment        2.4       5%              2.4       5%
Program
D. Irrigation Program          2.7       6%              6.7       14%
E. Veterinary                 --          --             1.0       2%
2. Power                       12.1       28%            15.9      33%
3. Transport                    3.9       9%              6.6      14%
4. General Rehabilitation       5.3       12%            10.6      22%
A. Construction               --          --             3.5       7%
B. Health                     --          --             4.7       10%
C. Education                  --          --             1.0       2%
D. Finance                    --          --             0.8       2%
E. Other                      --          --             0.6       1%
5. General Administration       1.3       3%              1.2       3%
TOTAL Project Cost             43.7      100%            47.5      100%
I/ Does not include Netherlands Grant (US$2.5 million).
14.    Customs Duties. From project start-up to approximately May 1993, items imported under the
project were cleared through customs with no application of customs duties. From June 1993, the
Customs Authority sought to impose customs duties on all items imported under the project (as well as
retroactively on previous items imported), leading to a large volume of items uncleared at Durres port



while ministries disputed the customs duties. The Agriculture Component was the most affected: at the
end of 1993, US$2.9 million of agricultural imports were uncleared at the Port. A Council of Ministers
Decree exempting project imports from customs duties eventually resolved the issue.
15.   Disbursements. Disbursements were slower than expected for the first nine months of
implementation, due mainly to the substantial changes in the list of agricultural imports, and the
subsequent need to reallocate funds to other components. Nevertheless, by the end of 1993, more than
half of the IDA credit was disbursed. By the project's expected completion date of June 30, 1995, 94
percent of the Credit was disbursed, and by the original closing date of December 31, 1995, 98 percent
was disbursed. The closing date was extended by six months to June 30, 1996, to make final payments
of about US$400,000 to suppliers. According to the project design, project funds were to be disbursed
directly through supply contracts, with payments made according to the Bank's Special Commitment
procedure. The IDA Credit Agreement was subsequently amended to establish a Special Account of US$2
million for small payments to small suppliers.
16.   Project Financing Reallocations. Significant reallocations of project financing took place during
the implementation of the project as sector requirements clarified or changed, or to avoid overlap with
other donors providing emergency assistance. The first and main reallocation took place in early 1993,
when the foreign financing allocated to the Agriculture Component was halved, and import programs
were developed for the health, education, and construction sectors.
17.   Agrculture Component. The Agriculture Component was originally allocated US$21.2 million
(48 percent of foreign financing), the largest component under the project. However, due to the rapidly
transforming agricultural sector and the need to coordinate with other donors of agricultural imports, the
component was modified and scaled back very soon after project effectiveness. After a slow start-up,
component implementation accelerated when an expatriate agriculture project manager was recruited in
early 1993 to assist the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF). By mid-1993, procurement of all items
was essentially on track.
18.   The agriculture sector rebounded during the project period-agricultural GDP began to increase
in 1992, recovered all that had been lost in the transition in 1993, and, by 1995, was some 15 percent
above the 1989 level. Agriculture, together with construction, led Albania's growth during this period.
Much of the agricultural recovery can be attributed to the Government's liberalization of prices and rapid
privatization of cooperative and state farm land. The CIP contributed to the agriculture sector's growth,
especially by addressing urgent irrigation needs, although the extent of its contribution cannot be
measured.
19.   The crop production subcomponent was significantly reduced, mainly because of emerging
availability of supplies from other donors. The import of fertilizers and hybrid seeds was cancelled, and
the import of pesticides was reduced to 155 tons. Sprayers and protective clothing were also imported,
and a pesticide law and handbook were developed. Because the MAF had difficulty selling all the
pesticides at CIF landed prices, the imports under this component probably had only a small impact on
production. However, the promotion of safe and environmentally-sound pesticide use was an important
first step in increasing awareness of pesticide handling issues during Albania's transition to private
farming.
20.   Foreign financing for the irrigation subcomponent was increased from US$2.7 million to about
US$6.2 million. The increased allocation was used to import excavators, additional spare parts for pumps,
additional transformers and wires, additional transport, and the short-term employment of a water
legislation expert. The irrigation subcomponent is considered highly successful-it enabled the MAF to
make the most urgent pump and canal structure repairs, increase the general operation and maintenance
capacity of Water Enterprises, and prepare detailed designs for further rehabilitation of large schemes,
which was subsequently financed under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2652-ALB). In



-6-
addition, CIP-financedfconsultants helped the MAF prepare the operating framework and regulations for
Water User Associations, as well as a national Water Law (which became the basis for the Irrigation
Code), thereby contributing substantially to the transition toward increased farmer participation in system
management. It is estimated that the component directly affected an irrigation command area of
approximately 60,000 hectares.
21.   The project's poultry/egg production subcomponent, with an original allocation of US$4.9
million, was cancelled at the request of the MAF in early 1993 due to the unavailability of domestic feed
maize and changes in input and output prices that made domestic egg production uneconomic. Under the
mechanical equipment subcomponent, about US$2.4 million of tractor tires and spare parts were
imported. A veterinary subcomponent was added, for an amount of US$1.0 million, for import of
veterinary treatments.
22.   Power Component. Originally foreseen as the second largest component (28 percent of total
foreign cost), the Power Component became the largest component after a reallocation of funds, bringing
the total foreign expenditures to US$15.9 million (34 percent of the total foreign project expenditures).
Included in the total for power was CHF 4.0 million (US$2.6 million equivalent) provided by the
Government of Switzerland. The largest single use of the reallocated funds was to purchase 35,000
household meters combined with current limiters.
23.   At the time of project preparation and appraisal, the power system was badly run down because
of insufficient spare parts over an extended previous period. While total electricity demand within Albania
had fallen by 17 percent from 1989 to 1991, there had been a rapid increase in demand on low voltage
networks in Tirana and other major cities. This caused overloading of the distribution and subtransmission
systems resulting in may outages and much destruction of transformers and cable.
24.   The Power Component of the project included a diverse list of equipment needed for urgent
repairs and maintenance on the country's three main hydropower stations, the transmission system, and
the distribution systems of Tirana, Durres, and Shkoder. Because of this diversity, the relatively small
size of the Power Component compared to Albania's needs, and simultaneous investments financed by
Italy and from KESH's own resources, it is not possible to make a precise measure of the benefits of the
investments. However, the evidence described below suggests that these benefits were large.
25.   Total blackout duration in large cities was 30 days in winter 1991-92, but only four days in 1992-
93 through January 1993. Damages were reduced from 650 transformers, 25 km of medium-voltage
cable, and 150 km of low-voltage cable in winter 1991-92 to 280 transformers, 15 km of medium-voltage
cable, and 100 km of low-voltage cable in winter 1992-93 to the end of January 1993. The reduction in
outage duration and damages was partly due to the relatively mild winter in 1992-93, but also to the
installation of distribution equipment provided under the project by the Swiss Government.
26.   Equipment provided under the project contributed to the high availability of the Drin River power
stations through 1996. These plants accounted for about 95 percent of Albania's electricity supply over
this period, and enabled the country to be a new power exporter after satisfying rapidly growing demand
within Albania. From 1992 to 1995, total electricity consumption within Albania grew by 51 percent. The
project helped restore to service two major transmission lines and allowed maintenance and repairs to
other parts of the transmission system. Provision of dispatching equipment, radios, and maintenance of
vehicles permitted faster response to outages and better load despatching. The household meters and
current limiters were mostly installed in Tirana during the winter of 1995-96. They contributed to a
reduction in overloading during peak periods and to a fall in non-technical distribution losses.
27.    Transport Component. Goods imported for the Ministry of Transport were estimated at appraisal
at US$3.9 million, 9 percent of foreign costs, and included tires for trucks and buses, workshop
equipment, batteries and spare parts for trucks, equipment for the Port of Durres, and communications



equipment of the Directorate of the Railways. Due to reallocations of project funds, enabling the import
of urban buses for US$2 million, final expenditures under the component amounted to US$6.6 million,
14 percent of foreign costs.
28.   General Rehabilitation Component. The original project design allocated 12 percent of foreign
financing to General Rehabilitation Component, the items of which would be agreed by the Government
and the Bank. As a result of the Netherlands cofinancing and the reduction in the Agriculture Component,
the General Rehabilitation Component ultimately expended US$10.6 million, 22 percent of total foreign
financing. In early 1993, General Rehabilitation funds were allocated mainly to the Health Sector (for
urgent medicines and hospital supplies, ambulances, local radio communication network, and an
angiograph); the Construction Sector (for trucks, including garbage, water, and kerosene trucks, and
pumping equipment); and the Education Sector (for window glass for schools, school repair and electrical
supply, paper and printing supplies for textbooks, and desk-top publishing equipment). The import of
heating stoves for schools was cancelled due to disputes over the bid award, and the funds were
reallocated to the Power Component.
29.   The project SAR emphasized that the General Rehabilitation Component would support only
productive sectors of the economy, although this restriction was not reflected in the Credit Agreement.
The health and education sectors, while not productive in a financial sense, realized important social and
economic benefits from the imported goods. For example, it is estimated that one thousand patients have
undergone blood analysis using the angiograph financed under the project; previously, patients traveled
abroad for this test.
30.   General Administration Component. Final expenditures for General Administration amounted
to US$1.2 million. The component financed mainly consultancies, including the PIU procurement
specialist and technical assistance for MAF, the Rural Commercial Bank, and the Enterprise Support
Unit. The component also contributed to much needed skills development in Albania by financing foreign
training for various Albanians in their field of expertise linked to sectors supported by CIP imports.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
31.   Factors not generally subject to Government control impacted the project partially:
(a) The rapidly transforming nature of Albania's economy required a flexible approach and
constant monitoring by the Government and the Bank.
(b) Intensive, proactive, and hands-on Bank supervision, including strong support from the
Resident Mission in Albania once it was established, helped to resolve implementation
difficulties that arose and to keep the project on track. The department's procurement adviser
played a particularly important role, including frequent provision of "on the spot"
procurement advice.
32.   Factors generally subject to Government control impacted the project substantially:
(a) The Government's policies supporting macroeconomic stabilization during the project period
provided an environment conducive to the project's objective of maintaining and increasing
capacity utilization and production. Albania's progress toward a stable market economy was
one of the most impressive among the transition countries. During the August 1992 to June
1993 IMF stand by agreement, macroeconomic outcomes far exceeded expectations. Inflation
settled down to 1-1.5 percent monthly in 1993 (from over 200 percent annually in 1992); and
output bottomed out in the second half of 1992, and rebounded thereafter as agricultural
production and construction surged to more than offset the continuing contraction of



- 8 -
manufacturing. Macroeconomic outcomes continued to exceed expectations during the first
two years of the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF), from July 1993 to June
1995, when output growth remained in the 8 to 10 percent range, and inflation fell to just 6
percent in 1995.
(b) The Government was fully committed to the project and engaged in frequent dialogue with
the Bank during implementation.
(c) While by far outweighed by the positive Government factors cited above, a few negative
factors affected implementation: mainly the shortage of local financing for the MAF, and an
unclear Government policy on whether CIP imports should pay customs duties, which led to
a bottleneck at the port for more than six months before the problem was resolved by a
Council of Ministers decree.
33.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control impacted the project substantially:
(a) PIU staff were dedicated and quickly became proficient in competitive procurement
procedures.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILIrY
34.   The project was designed as an emergency operation to prevent deterioration of Albania's
productive sectors during a critical period of economic reform and transformation. The CIP made
sustainable contributions to the Albanian economy in the areas of capacity utilization and transfer of
know-how, and by strengthening the framework for economic reform and for additional Bank assistance.
IDA-financed projects in the areas of irrigation, power, transport, schools, and health are helping to
assure that the capacity building initiated under the CIP is maintained.
35.   Looking well beyond the impact of a single IDA operation, it is still too early to give a final and
definite answer about the sustainability of Albania's economic reform program as a whole. Albania's
macroeconomic stabilization began to falter in the second half of 1995 as election-driven slippages in
financial policies delayed the third ESAF arrangement, which was supposed to begin in July 1995. In
addition to a major backsliding on the fiscal front, macroeconomic stability is also undermined by the
growing dimensions of informal financial schemes now offering interest rates of 8 to 50 percent per
month on deposits. The high rates of interest are supported by so-called pyramid (Ponzi) schemes, the
inevitable collapse of which will most certainly have a negative macroeconomic impact. In light of these
issues, the Government faces difficult policy decisions in 1997 if Albania's considerable economic
progress is to be maintained.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
36.   Bank performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was highly
satisfactory. As a new borrower, Albania relied heavily on the Bank for most of the preparation work.
Project preparation was as thorough as possible given its urgency.
37.   Bank performance in supervision is also considered highly satisfactory, and was often marked by
a proactive, non-bureaucratic approach. Bank staff, especially the Department's procurement advisor,
provided close support to the PIU. The active involvement of the Bank's Resident Mission in Tirana had
an important positive impact.



-9 -
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   The Borrower's performance was highly satisfactory during project preparation and
implementation. The Government was active in the design of the project and engaged in a healthy
dialogue with the Bank during implementation. Given Albania's unfamiliarity with Bank procedures and
the limited experience with international transactions, the Government relied on the Bank's support and
worked closely with Bank staff to clarify sector priorities, identify imports, and work out the necessary
arrangements for project implementation.
39.   The staff of the PIU performed well in implementing the project. PIU staff learned quickly from
the expatriate procurement adviser, and, over time, the PIU was able to handle all transactions with only
limited interaction with the Bank, as well as to pass on this knowledge to other public and private sector
entities. In the last two years of project implementation, there was no need for expatriate procurement
advice. The PIU became the focal unit within the Government of Albania for project management and
procurement, and was given the responsibility of (a) coordinating procurement activities under the quick
disbursing component of the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 2524-ALB), providing
assistance in procurement under the investment (line of credit) component, and handling disbursements
for both components; (b) coordinating and administering the Technical Assistance Project for Economic
Reform (Credit 2492-ALB), including provision of procurement and disbursement advice to beneficiary
agencies; (c) carrying out procurement for the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit
2649-ALB); and (d) administering the Technical Assistance for Tax Modernization Project (Credit 2646-
ALB).
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUrCOME
40.   The outcome of the project is fully satisfactory. In the broadest sense, the project achieved the
objective of putting a comprehensive reform program in Albania on track. By rushing to the aid of the
newly installed first democratic government in Albania, the Bank provided much needed support and
encouragement-to a country that had suffered the most from central planning, total isolation, and a
repressive political environment-to undertake fundamental systemic reforms. Through this first IDA
operation, the Bank established credibility with a new IDA borrower and pursued a permanent dialogue
that helped design the conditionality and underpin the structural reform agenda of the first ESAF, without
which the stabilization program would not have been as successful, and economic growth would not have
recovered as rapidly.
41.   In the narrower confines of the project, it achieved its main objective: it provided timely financing
for imports at a critical juncture of Albania's economic transformation, helping to avoid further collapse
of the production system. During the project implementation period, spiraling inflation was reversed, the
Government's budget deficit was slashed, and the severe fall in production was halted-real GDP growth
was 10 percent in 1993, 9 percent in 1994, and 9 percent in 1995, led by a rapid rebound of the
agricultural sector.
H. FUTURE OF THIS OPERATION AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
42.   The project was prepared and implemented as an emergency credit to a new borrower entering
the transition process. It responded to Albania's unique situation in 1992 and 1993, and does not lend
itself to replication in Albania. Due to the nature of the project (provision of critical imports to end
users), there is no plan for the project's future operation. The PIU has scaled back to three staff and will
continue to implement other projects.
43.   The extensive policy and sector dialogues that took place between the Government of Albania and
the Bank during implementation strengthened the quality of the Bank's lending portfolio. A number of
subsequent projects built upon dialogues and capacity-building activities initiated under the CIP, including



- 10 -
the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 2524-ALB), the Transport Project (Credit 2499-ALB),
the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2652-ALB), the Power Loss Reduction Project (Credit 2677-
ALB), and the School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project (Credit 2663-ALB). (See Table 2 of
the Statistical Annex.)
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.    The CIP's experience and lessons are generally consistent with those of other recent emergency
import components in transition countries.2 Findings and lessons learned are:
(a) A positive-list emergency import project can be an effective tool for addressing urgent
production bottlenecks while simultaneously supporting a reform process, provided that there
is built-in project flexibility and substantial Government commitment and proactive Bank
supervision to respond quickly to the changing needs.
(b) Timeliness is paramount. The Bank's responsiveness to Albania's needs in 1992 and 1993
won it considerable credibility with the Government and resulted in a close and productive
Government-Bank relationship over those years. To some extent, there are tradeoffs between
timeliness and urgency on the one hand and thorough preparation and meticulous
implementation on the other.
(c) The project included urgent imports to be sold to private end users. Considering that Albania
was going through a difficult transition and that income and demand were limited, the
project's design should have taken into consideration that imports to the private sector may
not sell rapidly at full CIF landed prices. Auctions might have been a more appropriate way
to distribute goods quickly, while simultaneously building a private suppliers network.
(d) Emergency import projects-like all other projects-require the establishment of accounting
and management information systems (MIS). A MIS system for the CIP would have resulted
in better tracking of local project costs and of the distribution of goods to end users.
(e) Unplanned but important project benefits included (a) knowledge and skills transfer
(especially procurement); and (b) development of sectoral dialogues, leading to a
strengthening of the subsequent loan portfolio.
(f) An import project in a new borrower country requires early attention to procurement,
including hands-on training and support by Bank procurement staff and the appointment of
project procurement advisers. This early emphasis on economic and efficient procurement
discipline can set the stage for the development of a transparent procurement environment in
the country.
(g) Higher than average resources are needed when working with new borrowers, especially in
transition countries. Bank effort is required to assist the Government with specific
implementation issues, as well as to redesign project components in the face of emerging
realities. The CIP was not only processed and approved on a fast-track basis, but continued
to be closely supervised during implementation, which was a factor in its success.
2  See ICRs for: Estonia Rehabilitation Loan (Report No. 14045-EE, dated March 31, 1995); Moldova Rehabilitation
Loan (Report No. 15311, dated December 28, 1995); Lithuania Rehabilitation Loan (Report No. 15650, dated May
24, 1996); and Republic of Kazakstan Rehabilitation Loan (Report No. 15812, dated June 26, 1996); and see
Performance Audit Report for Romania Technical Assistance/Critical Imports Loan (Report No. 15791, dated June
25, 1996).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
CRITICAL IMPORT S PROJECT
Credit 2404 -ALB
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions



- 12 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial     Partial     Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                      a                           El              WI
Sector policies                    1El            E]           a               I
Financial objectives                              LI           El l   0
Institutional development           a              o      
Physical objectives                 iI                          E               E0
Poverty reduction                   a             0             El oWI
Gender issues                       al            Fl            cl 
Other social objectives             ID                          El 0l
Environmental objectives            alE ol                                      VZI
Public sector management                                        El o  o 
Private sector development                        El           L                LI
Other (specify)                     U             El            E               E
B. Project sustainability            Likely                Unlikely             Uncertain
!- 2E                                       El
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification/ Preparation/                               El                   El
Appraisal (Implementation of
Pre-Pilot Phase
Supervision                         l1                      l                   E1
D. Borrower performance        Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                                El                   El[
Implementation                                             E                    El1
Covenant compliance                                        WI                   E 1
Operation (if applicable)                                  El                   ElO
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
El                           l O            a



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                       Purpose                         Year of          Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
None
Following Operations
1. Agriculture Sector Adjustment   * Support an agriculture sector         1993      Second tranche release
Credit (Credit 2524-ALB)           reform program.                                   conditions nearly fulfilled.
Major progress on policy
* Credit line to rural entrepreneurs             issues and land
through the Rural Commercial Bank,                privatization. Overall
and institutional strengthening of the            situation of the Rural
Rural Commercial Bank.                            Commercial Bank has
deteriorated.
2. Transport Project (Cr. 2499-    * Assist the Ministry of Transport to   1993      Ongoing and proceeding
ALB)                               adopt market-based transport                      satisfactorily. Estimated
policies.                                         completion date is 1998.
- Accommodate road traffic by
rehabilitating main roads.
* Improve operations, finance, and
safety at Durres port.
* Prepare to determine the future
role of the Albanian railway.
3. Irrigation Rehabilitation Project    * Increase agriculture production  1994      Ongoing-estimated
Credit (Cr. 2652-ALB)              through rapid rehabilitation of                   completion date is 1998.
irrigation/drainage infrastructure; and
alleviate poverty by increasing
income of small private farmers.
* Ensure sustainability of
irrigation/drainage investment
through farmers' participation in
operations and maintenance.
4. School Rehabilitation and       0 Accelerate rehabilitation of          1994      Ongoing and proceeding
Capacity Building Project (Cr.     damaged and dilapidated school                    satisfactorily. After a slow
2663-ALB)                          facilities.                                       start, civil works component
is now ahead of schedule.
* Build capacity of key sector                    Estimated completion date is
institutions.                                     1999.
5. Power Loss Reduction Project    * Reduce non-technical electricity      1995      Ongoing. Nearly all the
(Cr. 2677-ALB)                     losses, thereby reducing uneconomic               IDA Credit has been
use of electricity and increasing                 committed. Estimated
electricity revenues.                             completion date is 1997.
* Support institutional strengthening
in the power subsector.



- 14 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Circle                            Date planned            Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              N/A                   02/92
Preparation                                             N/A                   02/92
Appraisal                                               N/A                   04/92
Negotiations                                            N/A                   05/92
Board presentation                                      N/A                   06/92
Signing                                                 N/A                   06/92
Effectiveness                                           N/A                   07/93
Project completion (IDA credit only)                   06/95                  12/95
Credit closing                                         12/95                  06/96
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
Appraisal                   Actual As
IBRD Fiscal Year        Estimate        Actual    Percentage of
(US$ thousands)          Estimate
06/93                    25.0         10.5         42%
12/93                    33.0        24.3          74%
06/94                    41.1        35.3          86%
12/94                                36.3
06/95                                40.0
12/95                                41.6
06/96                                42.0
09/96a'                              42.4 b
a/ Final Application of Withdrawal documenting full recovery of Special
Account received on September 4, 1996.
b/ As a result of SDR appreciation against the US dollar, a total of
US$42.4 million were spent under the project.
Notes: (1) Figures may not total due to rounding.
(2) Original closing date: December 31, 1995. Revised closing date:
June 30, 1996.



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated           Actual
at Appraisal
The SAR did not contain implementation indicators.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                     Actual
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                               Purpose                 Status       Impact of study
Not Applicable



- 16 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimatea'                  Actual Total
(US$ million equivalent)           (US$ million equivalent)
Item                              Local   Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign      Total
costs    costs                    costs      costs
1. Agriculture                     6.8      21.2      28.0            n/a       13.1       n/a
A. Crop Production Program      3.4      11.2       14.6          n/a        3.1        n/a
B. Poultry/Egg Production       1.9       4.9       6.8           n/a        0.0        n/a
Program
C. Mechanical Equipment         0.7       2.4       3.1           n/a        2.4        n/a
Program
D. Irrigation Program           0.9       2.7       3.6           n/a        6.7        n/a
E. Veterinary                   --        --         --           n/a        1.0        n/a
2. Power                           3.3       12.1      15.4           n/a       15.9        n/a
3. Transport                       1.3       3.9       5.2            n/a        6.6       n/a
4. General Rehabilitation          --        5.3       5.3            n/a       10.6        n/a
A. Construction                 --        --        --             n/a       3.5        n/a
B. Health                       --        --        --             n/a       4.7        n/a
C. Education                    --        --        --             n/a       1.0        n/a
D. Finance                      --        --        --            n/a        0.8        n/a
E. Other                        --        --        --            n/a        0.6        n/a
5. General Rehabilitation          --        1.3       1.3            n/a        1.2        n/a
TOTAL                              11.5     43.7       55.3           n/a       47.5       n/a
Note: Figures may not total due to rounding.
a/ Does not include Netherlands Grant (about US$2.6 million)



- 17 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
(Foreign Financing Only)
Appraisal estimate                 Actual
(US$ million equivalent)      (US$ million equivalent)
Source                                   Total                         Total
1. IDA a/                                41.1                          42.4a'
2. Government of Switzerland             2.6                            2.6
3. Government of Netherlands              --                            2.5
Total                        43.7                          47.5
Note: Figures may not total due to rounding.
a/ Increase represents SDR appreciated against the US dollar.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis of project estimated at appraisal.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Albania
Critical Imports Project(Cr 2404-ALB)
Covenant    Present    Original        Revised
Agreement   Section         Type        Status    Fulfillment Fulfillment Description of Covenant                               Contments
Date         Date
Credit       4.01 (b)         I            C        Within 6                 The Government is to have the special account audited  International audits were undertaken of
months of                on an annual basis and the audit report is to be the 1993, 1994, and 1995 accounts.
end of FY                submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
the fiscal year.
4.01 (c)         I           C         Within 6                The Government is to ensure that records and accounts See above.
months of                reflecting withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
end of FY                basis of Statement of Expenditure be included in the
annual audit.
Schedule     3,5,9,10        C        Continuous               The PIU  shall be entrusted to: complete project PIU   operated  reasonably  well  and
4, Section                                                     planning; procure goods and equipments; prepare and coordinated with line Ministries.
I(a)                                                           submit action plans to Borrower and IDA regarding
distribution of goods and equipment; monitor project
execution, submit withdrawal applications under the
Credit; and maintained accounts.
Schedule       5,10          C        Continuous                User Ministries shall assist PIU in finalizing list of
4, Section                                                      imports.
2(a)                                                                                                                                                             0
Schedule       5,10          C        Continuous                PIU shall contract services of foreign trade enterprises
4, Section                                                      for import of goods.
2(b)
schedule 4,    3,4,10        C        Continuous               The GOA shall identify financial institutions and
Section                                                        provide necessary support including budgetary
2 (c)                                                          allocations, as necessary to ensure adequacy of
financial resources of non-state entities involved in the
implementation of the agriculture component of the
credit
Schedule 4     5,10          C        Continuous               Power Directorate to carry out procurement, delivery  Procurement and installation carried out.
Section 3                                                      and installation of power-related goods and to maintain
special management teams.
Covenant type:                                                                                                       Present Status
I =  Accounts/audits                              8 =  Indigenous people                                             C = covenant complied with
2 =  Financial performance/revenue generation from  9 =  Monitoring, review, and reporting                           CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                               10    Project implementation not covered by categories 1-          CP = complied with partially
3 =  Flow and utilization of project funds              9                                                            NC = not complied with
4 =  Counterpart funding                          11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5 =  Management aspects of the project or executing     resource allocation
agency                                      12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 =  Enviromnental covenants                            policy/regulatory/institutional action
7 =  Involuntary resetdement                      13 =  Other



- 19 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No lack of compliance was observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    US$             Weeks      US$
Preparation to appraisal  --       --             42.8      95.8
Appraisal                 --       --             17.1      42.1
Negotiations through       --      --             2.4        6.5
Board approval
Supervision
FY92                    --       --             0.9        2.1
FY93                    --       --             25.1      65.0
FY94                    --       --             23.1      57.9
FY95                   14.0     32.4            15.5      33.0
FY96                   18.9     43.6            3.8        5.2
FY97                    --       --             0.6        0.1
Completion               l1.0      10.9           0.9        0.1
Total                                          132.2      307.9



- 20 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of Days in                            Rating 2           Types of
Stage of project cycle     Month/Year  Persons   Field   Specialization                               Probnel n
Implementation Development Polm
status     objectives
Preparation                   02/92        9                  E, A, N
Appraisal                     04/92        4                  E, A, N
Supervision I (pesticides)    10/92        1        8           A                                         T
Supervision II                11/92        1        6            E                                        M
Supervision III (FAO-         12/92        1                     A                                       M, T
irrigation)
Supervision IV                02/94        2        12         E, E,             1            1
Supervision V (FAO-           10/93        1        12          A                                        M, T
irrigation)
Supervision VI                09/94        2        3          E, E             HS            S           M
Supervision VII               03/95        2        5          E, E             HS            S          T, F
Supervision VIHI/Completion   04/96        2        3          E, E             HS            S
1 - Specialization                          2 - Performance Rating              3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                         1 = Minor problems                   F =  Financial
E = Economist                               2 = Moderate Problems                T = Technical
D = Education Specialist                    3 = Major Problems                   M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst                       HS =Highly satisfactory
H = Horticulturist                          S = Satisfactory
L = Livestock Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Forester
S = Sociologist



Appendix A
Page 1 of 5
ALBANIA
CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF EVALUATION REPORT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
1.    Introduction
The Critical Imports Project (CIP) was initiated in 1992 to rapidly maintain and increase capacity
utilisation in the Albanian econony in the aftermath of the social and economic deterioration in the previous two
years when civil disorder resulted in widespread damage to property, infrastructure, and goods. The SAR
estimated disbursements totaUlling US$25 million by the end of 1993 and a further US$15 million by the end of
1994. The original disbursernents were to be provided in agriculture, power, transport, general rehabilitation, and
administration, but as the requirements of line ministries became understood disbursements were extended to
provide goods and services for construction, health, education, and finance.
The original IDA Credit was SDR 30 million with an additional US$ 2.6 million provided by the Swiss
Government and a further US$2.5 million provided by the Dutch Government.
Within the Ministry of Finance was created a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), the first of its kind in
Albania. Procurement followed IDA Guidelines and this CIP became the first of many IDA-financed projects and
enabled the Government of Albania to establish a unit which became well versed in IDA procedures and thus was
able to guide and assist PlUs and PMUs of other ministries in later years.
2.     Project Aims Within the Staff Appraisal Report
Three sectors were determined to be critical in maintaiing and increasing capacity utilisation and
production in Albania, and they were agriculture, power, and transport. The aims of the project within the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) were:
Agricultural Component:
(a) inputs for crop production in the 1992/93 season;
(b) inputs for poultry/egg production in the 1992/93 season;
(c) spare parts and supplies for agricultural mechanisation;
(d) spare parts and equipment for irrigation rehabilitation.
Power Component:
(a) materials and equipment for repairs of generating plants;
(b) materials and equipment for rehabilitation of the transmission system;
(c) materials and equipment for rehabilitation of the distribution systemn at Tirana, Shkoder and Durres;
(d) equipment for improvements in the dispatching/monitoring system.
Transport Component:
Spare parts, batteries and tyres for the Ministry of Transportation truck fleet; spare parts and equipment
for the port of Durres and for the railway telecommunications system.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 5
Lesser additional components were identified as:
General Rehabilitation Component:
Goods and services for the rehabilitation of key productive sectors, at that time uidentified.
Technical Assistance and General Administration:
(a) office equipment for Ministries and public administration;
(b) technical assistance for PIU, reorganisation of the irrigation system, the Rural Conmmercial Bank,
and the use/application of pesticides.
3.     Changes to the Staff Appraisal Report Project Aims
As the project progressed and ministries had an opportunity to identify their specific requirements, some
elements of the original plan changed in line with the reality of their situation. These changes were in confict with
the aims of the original SAR, and therefore deletions and additions to the original programme were made.
4.     Mid Term Reallocation, March 1993
The mid term reallocation of March 1993 was specifically designed to assess the project progress to that
date, approve requests by ninistries to alter the original requi mts of the project, and to reallocate funds from
cancelled or reduced value components.
Agricukure: Major changes and cancellations appeared in this component at an early stage and were:
(a) cancellation ofthe importation of hybrid seed;
(b) cancellation of the importation of fertiliser because of the existence of 3,000 tons of usable
material;
(c) reduction of the importation of pesticides from US$ 6.6 million to US$ 1.6 million;
(d) the poultry and egg conponent was cancelled because of the problemns associated with
feedstufT the inportation of day old and 120 day live birds, and the privatisation of farms;
(e)  reduction of veterinary inputs due to a sinilar EU Phare programme;
(f) the sale of imported goods through public auctions.
The irrigation subcomponent was successful in that the goods procured for "Inigation Enterprises" were
distributed quickdy to the end users. This success lead to an increase in the funding allocation from US$ 2.7
million to US$ 4.4 million in July 1993. Atthis time, US$1.1 million had been procured forthe irrigation
subcomponent and all had been distributed by Agroimport/Agrotades.
Coal: As a special neasure the import of 20,000 tons of coal for public heating was to be permitted at
a cost of US$860,000 from the General Rehabilitation Component. The import was later cancelled.
Transport: Buses were added to the transport component in May 1993 at a cost of US$2.0 million.
General Rehabilitation: In the SAR the requirements under this component were not identified. The
final amount spent under this component is US$10 million.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 5
GeneralAdminiLtra*ion: The final amount spent under this component was US$1.2 million for
consultancies, training, and some equipment, mainly for PIU and lesser amounts for the Rumal Commercial Bank
the Enterprise Support Unit, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
5.     Factors Affecting the Project Objectives
A number of factors have affected the performance of the Critical Imports Project in so much that delays
have been caused in the execution of vanous components but the overall plan of the project has not been altered
and the original aims, revised where required, have all been achieved. No "misprocurement" has been recorded
against PIU during the duration ofthe Project from 1992 to 1996.
(a) An overall lack of understanding of IDA procurement procedures has lead to difficulties in client
ministries not accepting properly completed evaluations and thus causing procurement delays.
(b) Client ministries not producing adequate specifications, which have resulted in goods performing
less than expected or in changing specifications at a late stage.
(c) Customs clearance and the imposition of import duty resulting in goods being held without
release.
(d) Lack of public demand for goods imported, which required: (i) reduction of unit prices, and then;
(ii) auctioning the slow moving items remaining in stock at Agroimports.
(e)  Client ministries which completed their own tenders making errors of issue, general procedures,
evaluation, and generally not acting in an impartial way but endeavouring to make choices.
(f) Ministries not producing the appropriate distribution plans for the goods they wished to have
inported.
(g)  Ministies not producing inventories of stock held by them from imports under CIP.
6.     Sector Benefits
Meetings were held with representatives of ministries whose sector received goods under the CIP, and the
comments below are summaries of their opinions.
Ministiy ofAgriculture and Food:
This Ministry, with the exception of the irrigation subcomponent, has received goods under the CIP
Credit to sell directly to the private sector. Specific information is not available on the crop yields using hybrid
seed, yields due to the timely application of agrochemicals, yields due to increased or consistent water supply,
improved quality of crops and increases in cash crop production for local consumption and for export.
The main elements of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food inputs are: machinery, pesticides, veterinary
drugs, and agroinputs.
Imgation: Capital goods imported under CIP were excavators, trucks, pickups, cars, transformers,
switchgear and cabling, mobile workshops and motorcycles. Goods provided under the irrigation subcomponent
complemented the subsequent Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, in that urgently required equipment was procured
in advance. In addition, a Water Code was wrtten to provide the legal and operating framework of Water User



Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
Associations (WUA), which were to be initially established in 7 out of the 36 districts of Albania. Currently there
are 200 WVAs.
KESH-Power Sector:
Numerous appointments were made to meet the Vice Director of KESH and his staff, but these
appointments were not kept. Accordingly, we are indicating our limited views of the benefits which accrued to
Albania from imports created under CIP. Whilst specific information is not known on the increase in power
output, percentage breakdowns of the transmission system, and breakdowns of the distribution systems, it is
generally accepted that the incidence of power supply failure has decreased from previous years.
MinLstry of Health:
Equipment: Imports included ambulances, a radio communication network, vehicles, and an angiograph.
Drugs and Surgical Equipment: The drugs supplied were at the direct request of the Ministry of Health,
and the drugs generally arrived successfully in Albania.
Comments: Whist it is difficult to quantify the benefits that accrue from imports from CIP in the health
sector, it must be seen that the provision of a service where it did not exist before must be beneficial and that
emergency vehicles and the radio network are benefiting isolated areas of Albania. Drugs and hospital
consumables are an ongoing requirement. Now that the supply of drugs is being privatised, the continuation of
drugs is assured after CIP.
Ministry of Transport:
Goods imported for the Ministry of Transport under the CIP were: workshop equipment and tools; tyres
and tubes; steel sections, all of which were handled on behalf of the Ministry by Ndermanja Funrzimit te
Komunikacioneve (NFK) in Durres, and urban buses. Goods were then sold to the public, but the sale was not
particularly successful due to competition from other cheaper imported materials. The cost was reduced by 30%/o,
and then auctions were used. Funds created from these sales were used for budget support. In addition to
equipment listed earlier, some capital machinery has been imported, such as port equipment for Durres, namely a
35 ton port crane, forklif trucks, and front end loaders, all of which are now in private hands and the equipment
is being paid for by the present operators to NFK. Generally the port of Durres services have been strengthened
by the injection of new equipment and it is to be hoped that under private ownership the equipment will be put to
good use and will increase substantially the capacity of Durres to handle imports and exports.
Ministry of Finance/PIU.
Goods and technical assistance were procured for PIU to enable the unit to operate.
Ministry of Construction:
The Ministry of Construction received rubbish collection trucks, water and kerosene tank trucks which
have been utilised throughout Albania. These inputs have been a major benefit to the population in the clearance
of rubbish, which is a health benefit, the supply of potable water, and the supply of kerosene as a heating and
cooking source in the absence of wood and electricity. Some small pickups were also purchased. Pumping
equipment to replace those damaged in Vlora, Tirana, and some villages were procured as a major social benefit.
Bags for the storage and distribution of cement was a success story, the total input being sold to the cement
industry within six months with the proceeds going towards budget support.



Appendix A
Pages of 5
MiWnisty of Education:
Goods procured for the Ministry of Education included window glass to repair damaged classrooms,
which were extremely beneficial in keeping students at school during the winter. A large number of heating stoves
were planned to be procured, but due to objections by IDA upon the behaviour of the Ministry in this matter the
stoves were not obtained. Other items procured were equipment and materials to manufacture teaching materials
which were in short supply.
7.     Extent to which the Project has Fulfilled its Original Purpose:
The CIP, which was prepared and appraised between February and April 1992, became a reality in June
1992 and has fulfilled its original purpose, which was to provide Albania with imports that would assist in the
recovery following the social and economic deterioration of the previous two years.
(a) The rate of disbursement which is a general indicator of performance, whilst low in the first year,
recovered and in March 1994 exceeded the SAR anticipated disbursement total.
(b) It is always easy in hind sight to question the choices made and the decisions taken by PIU and the
beneficiary ministries, but as an overall view it appears that in the majority of cases the choices of imports made
were, and have turned out to be, sensible and to have filled important gaps in the total needs of Albania.
(c) An ongoing problem is that of educating farmers of the benefits to be gained from the correct and
selective use of plant protection products. A parallel problem is to encourage fiumers who are working with such
miaterials to wear protective clothing and to adopt good working practices. Because of this problem with the users
of agricultural chemicals, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is approving products for future imports with a
low toxicity, which in some respects is a compromise in plant protection.
(d) The cost of irnported goods on sale to the public has in some cases been too high in the view of the
public and when compared against cheaper, inferior imports from elsewhere. Given such a situation, the goods
were not all purchased and some goods remain unsold.
(e) Distribution plans for goods to be sold to the private sector were not always produced on time, nor
were they subsequently used.
(f) Changes in the requirements of the Government after Credit negotiations have reflected the reality of
other import sources, and the original requirements have been altered or have been cancelled and the funds
reallocated where other imports were needed.






REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                                                      Appendix B
MINISTRY OF FINANCES                                                       Page 1 of 1
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Prk4 (r.                                      Tirana, December 30, 1996
To: Mr. Karlos Elbirt,
Resident Representative of
the World Bank,
Tirana, Albania
Re: Critical Imporr Proiect (Credit 2404-ALB)
- Implementation Completion Report
Dear Sir,
Thank you for providing us with a copy of the Bank's draf of the
Imnplementation Completion Report for the Critical Import Project.
We would like you to know that we agree with the main points of the
Implementation Completi )D Report, incliding the rating of the project as fully
satisfactory and the rating of the performance of the Bank and the Borrower as highly
satsfactory. The project was extremely important for Albania at a very crucial moment
of its history and we are proiud that Albania has made considerable economic
achive.ment since that time.
We endorse the project evaluation that was provided to you by the Project
Imp.ementation Unit, as well as the summary that is attached to the Implementation
Completion ReporL
Best Regards,
Sincerely,
- I
'ini    f Bode
.. - Mzmstejpf Finances






t                18 32    }        ~        ~~ 19 00'                                               2 t     5,.                  >2  ! 
x ~~~~~~~ g                                       /   I ~~~~~~~~~~~ FED.          REP.                          U 7GO)SL.4Ai
CRATIA')r                                                                                      .   (SERBIA   M M EDON'r\,A)
-42 30 \. abn  
-         '   AADHE,:   3sF             ( 
-K.rp l ik    /                               D Awse
,  ,      ,,JSHKODER                          ti     ;                                    ,
ALBANIA                                                                          sAre,,,b'                                        ri.
42 00'                                                                                                                           K    / /\ i       
|               O~~~~~ SELECTED CITIES                              t          ?VLEZHit;            5s         .falRi J''\'                  ,r
2             (i)   ~~~~~DISTRICT CENTERS                              Shnin                         IRDITE                         , 
1             69   ~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL                                      Ke,_j              ,Rr    6-n              DI3E 
s . . ~~~~NATIONAL ROADS                                                                                                  BE R  ehoit,
RAILROADS                                               _ p Gg                                   k@ rr
RIVERS                                        F-sh6K.90 :A<;3r C        flz,             t      (X
a            _      ~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                   _MOrusi<               ur     
5            _  g ~~~~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                   >      Sruqz                                  X           
41 30           ELEVATIONS IN METERS:                                      iDRRE              ,,                           5IZ   w                   F.Y.}l(D,lRI
R    1200                                           !       Vr i         TIRANE                      )j
=    0                                          D re>           $       _      (                -    BRAZHD-           .
KAAJ S       _HNJEXig                                   a  
O 10 20 30 ~~40    50 , Atni8){ 
KILOhMETERS                           d>30 Brf fovet b43 .;  
18 30'                                                                                          SKR'~403       e e>  ~      L2 Aovd  'AR;J 
DENMARK               .          /~voe}t                                           X fhs             \;
' LIP`HUA,A   (                            fprv5\\'X              XL N                  PERMET   .KOLONJe 
NErmH   ?               j ~~~~~~~ BELARUS\g                        \                     Tep leneS             -<.I g 
~.GERM0ANY    \ POLAND E   T  Q   
ZS  CX <,   EP  r. ,                          UKRAINE\._                                                       <R K S               .;       ,j
4/  SW>;9 ._  ,2    ~HUNGARY               _      -40 00'                                                              _,
X r   -  >0F xOnTTt <   ROMANIA\(.-                                             ! ~~~~~~~~~~DELVINEsS, \ 
IE'L,                                                                   sloa)-        |    or  r                  GREE(E            
\; lspe <>l>/  ULGARIA                                              *     >)_
ITALY   4 ( th   |g-                                           njz7t3  ~~~~~~SARANDE 
~~~~: ~~~~AL8PNIA                                                                .-.) 
GREECE          TURK                                          [      tj-tv          ^Ir 
1 9 30     ''       '      20 00 '.                     ( 30                       .*









0  u  r r IA -i -; L
.    .  I                              X1':,  
O s VL '-, "- ), J



