DRcumi of
The World Bank
FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
RP11 No. P-5805-ALB
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMEATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 30 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
FOR A
CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
JUNE 5, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5805-ALB Type: (PR)
DE THIER, / X32510 / H11045/ EC2AW
Tis docemt has a resricted dIsirbuto and may be sed by recipiet only in te performance of
ther offical dutes. its cooten may not oerwise be sslused wihow World  ak atoratIn



CURRENCY EGUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Lek
Jan.-Aug.  Sept.-Dec.    Jan.-May
1987-9Q 0J               1991       1992
US$1   Lek           8.00        10.00     25.00        50.00
ALBANIA - FISCAL YEA
January 1- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEas
Metric System
BOP         Balance of Payments
CIF         Cost Insurance Freight
DPE         General Directorate for Power
EC          European Comunmity
ESAF        Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         International Development Association
IN.         International Monetary Fund
MICA        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
PFP         Policy Framewvork Paper
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SDR         Special Drawing Right
SOE         Sta..-owned Enterprise
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Government of Albania
Amount:                   SDR 30 million (US$41.1 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years maturity
Financing Pla:
Logal      Fgreig4      Total
--------- US$ million --
IDA                               41.10       41.10
Swiss Grant                        2.64        2.64
End-Users              9.24                    9.24
Government             2.28                    2.28
Total                 11.52       43.74       55.26
Economic Rate of Return:
Crop and
Poultry/Egg Components:   greater than 50 percent
Other Components:         not applicable
Im21ementation Volume: available upon request
mmz:                      IBRD No. 23410
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



NEMWRANDUA 4ND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT &n_THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR A CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed development credit to Albania for SDR 30 million (US$41.1
million equivalent), on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity, to help
finance a critical imports project. Economic indicators and a map (IBRD
23410) are attached. An Implementation Volume is available upon request.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP STRATEGY
Backgroud «ad Recent Economic Developmencs
2.    After forty years of almost complete isolation enforced by an implacably
totalitarian regime, Albania, at first tentatively in 1991, then decisively in
1992, became part of the great systemic transformation sweeping the region.
The first fully democratic elections took place in Narch 1992, with the very
high participation rate of 90 percent. After the election of the new
President, a government was formed in April, with a solid parliamentary
majority, fully comitted to an open, liberal market economy, facing a
challenge, however, that is without precedent even when compared to the trying
experiences of the other post-communist societies.
3.    With a population of 3.3 million of which two thirds live in rural
areas, Albania is a predominantly agricultural country. Although close to the
center of Europe, the country has a 1992 GDP per capita that is likely to be
below US$400 in rough purchasing power parity terms. This represents a 30
percent cumulative decline over the already low level prevailing in the mid-
1980s. After some initial growth in the post-war years, the highly
centralized and autarkic system that prevailed until 1991 had resulted in a
stagnant economy, caught in a low-level productivity trap, and producing a
wide array of goods of mediocre quality at very high cost.
4.    When the political system finally crumbled in 1991, the economy
collapsed. In all sectors of the economy, including agriculture, central
planning had decided, allocated, distributed everything for decades. When it
was abolished in July 1991, no alternative mechanism was in place to replace
it. The result was economic and social chaos.
5.    In sgriculture, the most important sector in terms of value added and
employment, a move towards privatization of the cooperative farms took place
during the political interregnum period from July 1991 to March 1992, at a
time when law and order was breaking down and inflation soared. The lack of
organization in the sector and severe shortage of inputs caused a partial
breakdown of production and total output has declined by more than 30 percent
over the last two years (para 20).



6.    In industry and mining, enterprises had little horizontal contact with
each other in the centrally planned system as everything depended on a central
allocation mechanism. The breakdown of the system coupled with extreme import.
scarcity resulted in an estimated 55 percent decline in output between the end
of 1989 and the end of 1991. When the orders stopped coming from the top,
producers were unable to continue operating. Firms were unable to find the
means of transporting goods produced for export to the port. Critical
imported inputs could not be procured, resulting in the closure of many
enterprises. In the sprfng of 1992, about .O percent of the urban labor force
was not working. Mining exports declined sharply for want of spare parts for
that industry. This was not an aggregate demand driven recession. It was a
structural dislocation resulting in an accelerating downward spiral.
7.    Traditional macroeconomic analysis and indicators are of limited value
in such a context. Nonetheless, some basic macroeconomic laws operate in
almost any institutional environment. With production declining everywhere
and the state enter rise sector yielding no surplus, government revenues
declined by over 20 percentage points of GDP, leading to a huge budget
deficit, reaching about 40 percent of GDP in the first quarter of 1992.
Exports fell from $133 million in 1989 to $72 milliov in 1991. A large part
of the budget deficit was financed by the domestic banking system, and
inflation reached an annual rate close to 300 percent in the first few months
of 1992. With the confidence in the domestic currency vanishing, the exchange
rate went into a free fall.
PMrosects
8.    Despite these grim statistics, a wave of hope has been perceptible since
April 1992 in stark contrast to the atmosphere prevailing throughout 1991.
The government has a solid majority in Parliament and is receiving encouraging
international support. An IMF mission was in Tirana one week after the new
government took office to negotiate a stand-by and good progress has been
made. A final draft of the letter of intent is being negotiated and the
program is expected to be in place by July 1992. The European Community has
agreed on a $80 million aid package for 1992 and additional support roughly
equal to that amount is being discussed. Bilateral donors, including Italy,
Germany, the U.S., Turkey, and others, have committed about $70 million for
1992. While the level of these commitments is very encouraging, there is a
serious problem of timing. Formal approval processes will delay most
disbursements until the end of the calendar year.
9.    The proposed World Bank project of SDR 30 million (US$40 equivalent>,
the first Bank Group operation in Albania, is a contribution to this overall
effort to assist Albania at this most critical stage of its transition
process. Board approval in June 1992 will allow early disbursement to finance
the importation of critical inputs for three important sectors. As detailed
in Part II, IDA staff have been working with the Albanian authorities on
procurement and implementation issues so that disbursement can be as rapid as
possible.
10.   Looking ahead to the medium term, there are good chances that concerted
international assistance, provided it is delivered soon, can bear fruit, help
stabilize the economy, and lay the foundations for what could be quite rapid
growth in the latter half of the decade. Despite the very low level of income



- 3 -
realized at present, Albania has good potential for escaping the poverty trap
and rapidly reachitng much higher levels of productivity and income. The
arable land is rich and fertile, with ample rainfall and possible rapid yield
ga_ns, once private incentives encourage economic activity and investment.
Albania has been a net exporter of energy in the past since it has ample
hydro-electric supplies and some limited oil and gas reserves. The
development of new bydro-electric resources or oil reserves could become a
major source of foreign exchange. The country is also rich in mineral
resources, with high quafity chrom'um reserves and copper. The climate is
excellent, with an inviting coastline ideal for the development of tourism.
Finally, wages are at present a fraction of the already low wages in
neighboring countries, allowing very competitive labor-intensive production of
simple industrial products. The labor force lacks modern industrial skills,
but illiteracy is almost inexistent and women hlave universal access to basic
education. The health status of the population compares very favorably with
that of low and even middle-income developing counL-ies.
11.   The basis for an economic take-off, therefore, exists provided a
courageous yet realistic medium-term strategy can be put in place to unleash
small-scale private entrepreneurship in agriculture, services and industry,
stabilize the fiscal and monetary situation and build up as rapidly as
possible the legal, administrative, and institutional support systems for a
market economy from the ruins and chaos of the old centralized command
economy. Really major progress is being made in that direction    In close
cooperation with the IMF, European institutions, bilateral donors and the
World Bank, the Government has designed the elements of a comprehensive
recovery program that tries to take account of the very specific nature and
constraints of the Albanian situation.
12.   This program will be finalized in the coming months with implementation
to begin in the summer of 1992. It is very important for the success of the
program that there be an early supply response complementing and reinforcing
the drastic demand management measures that are needed to stabilize macro-
economic aggregates. One of the most essential ingredients that can allow
such a supply response is the immediate availability of critical imports for
key sectors of the economy, most importantly for agriculture, as well as for
transport and power. Agriculture has to provide the bulk of the awaited
supply response, restoring food security and providing employment. The
rehabilitation of the transport and power networks are very important for
agriculture and other productive activities to be able to function. The
Critical Imports Project addresses these priority needs as a first emergency
step in the overall program of economic reform and systemic transformation.
The remarkable political support and social consensus that the reform
government currently enjoys, allows a very ambitious program of change. This
consensus is based, however, on the hope of some early tangible results that
halt the destructive downward spiral which has brought even greater misery to
the already destitute population.
The Government's New Economic Program
13.   Shortly after taking office, the newly elected Government announced the
outline of a comprahensive program of reforms. The key objectives of the
program are the stabilization of the economy, the establishment of



-4-
institutions necessary for the functioning of markets, and sectoral measures
to promote a quick supply response to the reforms.
Magroeconoml& Program
14.   The first priority is to improve the fiscal situation and halt zhe slide
into hyperinflation. Most price subsidies will be eliminated and an absolute
limit on transfers to loss-making public enterprises is to be enforced. To
achieve that objective, Che scheme where state-owned enterprises (SOEs),
closed for lack of inputs, had to pay 80 percent of their wages to workers has
already been ropealed. Non-essential expenditures will be sharply curtailed
and a hiring freeze on the central administration will be implemented.
Defense expenditures will be sharply curtailed and the government plans to
shorten the length of military service. On the revenue side, while rapid
progress is not possible in the immediate future, emphasis will be placed on
simple custom duties and turnover taxes and on a crash program to put in place
a modern tax administration.
15. The reduction of the fiscal deficit net of foreign financing from about
40 percent to about 15 percent of GDP will allow the Government to limit its
recourse to the Lsanking system and thus to reestablish a degree of control
over mone creation. The Government has also announced its intention to move
toward the external convertibilit of the currency. The lek will be floated
and an exchange market created where banks and authorized dealers will be
allowed to transact at freely negotiated rates. However, controls on capital
transactions will be maintained. All this constitutes a very courageous
stabilization and reform program with most policy measures taken upfront
without any hesitation or delay. There will be, however, major practical
implementation problems that are unavoidable given the initial conditions
prevailing in Albania.
81=82020nmic Reforms
16. The Government recognizes that the removal of price controls except for
a few-strategic commodities will be essential to achieve more rational and
efficient allocation of resources. Legislation is being introduced to free up
all retail, wholesale and producer prices. The liberalization of domestic
prices will be accompanied by liberalization of external ;rgA. Export
licensing and controls will be abandoned immediately, and the floating of the
lek will be accompanied by the full liberalization of imports.
17.   The Government will continue with the nR  Lazato of SOEs. In the
first instance, enterprises in trade, services, urban transport and fisheries
are being targeted for privatization; next, enterprises in light industry
sectors, such as food processing, will be privatired. Land which was
completely state-owned is being rapidly transferred to private owners; 68
percent of the agricultural land operated by cooperatives has already been
privatized and the remainder will be transferred to private ownership by the
end of Jun 1992.
18.   The enterprise law of October 1990 had granted state enter=Lses
autonomy on financial, wage and employment matters while maintaining state
control over some production decisions to varying 6agrees in different areas.
The law had given effective control of the enterprises to the workers and



managers, without giving them formal ownership of the assets, a mistake
familiar from other Easterrn European countries.  The new Government will
change this law to facilitate rapid privatization of most enterprises while
establishing longer-term governance structures for some enterprises that will
remain state-owned, particularly in the mining sector.
19. The financial sector presents a particularly difficult challenge. A new
banking law is ready that will separate the commercial and central banking
activities of the State lank of Albania, and establish the basic supervisory
and prudential mechanisms needed in a market economy. This financial sector
has to be built essentially from scratch. Monetary control and interest rate
policies in the transition period will have to take into account the skills of
existing financial sector personnel and the unavoidable macroeconomic
unecrtainties during the early phase of the recovery program. In the medium
term, after success of macroeconomic stabilization and the establishment of
banks wivh some trained personnel, the program envisions full liberalization
of interest rates and reiiance on indirect monetary controls. In the
meantime, bank specific credit ceilings and regulated interest rates are
preferable to the risks that would be associated with ;oss of monetary
control.
Ssetorrl Issues
20.      jja,cultgj.  In agriculture, accounting for about 50 percent of
employment, output is estimated to have declined by at least 30 percent in the
last two years. The fall in production of wheat, from 600,000 tons in 1989 to
354,000 in 1991, bas beon particularly pronounced. In 1991, cooperative lands
and assets were dlstributed to individual families. There are now about
300.000 small farms with an average size of about 1.2 ha/family, often sub-
divided into 2 or 3 smaller plots. The 150 existing state farms, situated
mainly in the coastal plains and covering 24 percent of good arable land, have
not been privatized yet. In past years, they accounted for 30 percent of the
value of agricultural output, and were the main source of supply of dairy
products, fruits and vegetables for the urban population but, in 1991, the
surplus marketed by these state farms dropped to almost zero. As of April
1992, approximately 37 percent of the total arable land area was unexploited.
The supply of inputs and marketing of output for small farmers is limited,
reflecting the fact that most state enterprises that previously managed input
and output distribution are barely functional, especially in isolated rural
areas. Furthermore, the rural infrastructure (feeder roads, markets) and
transportation systems to support the development of private marketing
channels is grossly inadequate.
21.   The new Governmont wants to ensure that land is fully exploited during
the 1992-93 season. It is actively preparing a program to improve the legal
framework for land ownership and land leasing, provide titles to private
farmers and legalize the sale, leasing and inheritance of land. It has
created a Commission to examine the future of th# state farms. An agriculture
strategy is now being prepared by the Government with the support of IDA, EC
and USAID, and action programs to upgrade sector performance are to be
implemented starting in July 1992 (para 28).



6-
22. Uininjg and Energy. Albania, that used to be the third producer of
chromium in the world, is now producing only about one third of its 1989
mining output. The country's mineral resources also include copper, nickel,
and iron ore. Mining is potentially a major export earning sector but suffers
from outdated equipment, dangerous working conditions, and inefficient
management. The shortage of inputs and the disruption in the transportation
system have led to the closure of many mines and processing facilities.
Albania is also well-endowed with energy resources, that include oil and gas
reserves, some coal and Lubstantial hydroelectric power (which is one of its
more important exports). However, given its level of development, Albania uses
about 50 percent more energy than it should, based on international
comparisons. Appropriate energy prices are to be put in place, and large
investments are needed to upgrade produ'ntion technology. The Government
intends to seek foreign partners to develop the mining and the energy sectors.
Already contracts have been signed vith five foreign companies for off-shore
oil explorationias.
23.   IndusgMe.  Industry is less important to Albania than many other
countries in the Region, although the labor force in the major citi^; did
depend almost entirely on industrial employment for its livelihood. Input
shortages have also seriously affected industrial production which now
represents only half of 1989 level. This decline has been most pronounced in
the textile and other light industry where production has declined by two
third since 1989. The decline in industrial production has been aggravated by
the deciaion taken in 1991 to pay 80 percent of their wage to the workers of
the enterprises closed for lack of inputs, a measure, now repealed, that
destroyed the incentive to work.
Bank Group Countr Assistance Strategy and ORerations
Obiectives
24.   Albania joined the Bank Group in October 1991. During the past year of
contact, the Bank entered into a close and effective dialogue with the
Albanian authorities. There is agreement on the objectives of economic reform
as well as on the main elements of the economic reform. Specific measures and
the time frame for action are being worked out.
25.   The short and medium term objective of IDA assistance is to alleviate
the current economic and financial crisis through analysis and advice on the
reform program and provision of selective investments in critical sectors
where IDA has a comparative advantage. Thus IDA will aim to:
(i) support the process of economic reform by helping in the design and
implementation of macroeconomic and sector policies needed to stabilize the
economy and stimulate production, particularly in agriculture and mining;
(ii) provide, where needed, quick disbursing support to critical sectors
of the economy such as agriculture and the financial aud enterprise sectors;
(iii) assist in a--as related to the reduction of poverty such as the
design and implementatitn of a social safety net that would protect the most



-7-
vulnerable groups during the period of transition, rural employment creation,
and upgrading the role of women in the economy.
(iv) support the rehabilitation of some of the existing infrastructure;
(v) build the institutional capacity in economic management;
(vi) support the development of private sector activities;
(vii) accelerate efforts to address environmental degradation.
Lending StrtetgX
26.   Assuming good performance and sustained reform, IDA is planning to
support Albania with an initial annual lending program level of SDR 30
million. This would allow about two to three operations per year and would be
tailored to the implementation of reform program. An early emphasis would be
towards relieving the critical scarcity of inputs. As the economy picks up and
export revenues to finance critical imports increase, IDA resources would
gradually be channelled into investments aimed at the rehabilitation of the
country's dilapidated infrastructure, and at providing long-term investment
resources to the emerging private sector.
27.   In FY 92, the Critical Imports Project focusses on the provision of
essential goods mainly for agriculture and the power and transport systems.
In FY 23, an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit, an Employment and Social
Protection Project, and a Water Supply Project for the port city of Durres are
planned. The first project would provide imports to the agriculture sector,
build up on previous efforts to stimulate agricultural production, and support
policy reforms needed in the agricultural sector. It would increase food
production, support private sector activity, and build government
institutions. The second project would assist in putting in place a social
safety net and support private sector activity through the provision of
employment services and training. The third project would support the
rehabilitation of the existing water supply infrastructure and improve the
quality of life for the population of Durres both by increasing the
reliability of water supply and reducing the contamination of water. In Py
94, the proposed lending program includes a Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit, as well as a Health Sector Project and a Transport Project.
£conomic and Sector Work
28.     The planned economic and sector work would provide the analytical
underpinnings for IDA's policy discussions with the Government and future
lending. In very close coordination with the IMF, European institutions and
USAID, IDA's work focusses on the sectoral and structural elements of the
reform program, taking into account the unique circumstances in Albania. The
objective is to help prepare the sequence of reforms which IDA and the IMF
will support. The Government has already adopted the Health Sector Strategy
Paper of February 1992, and FY93's Agricultural Sector Strategy will examine
reform issues for agriculture, including prices and incentive policies,
marketing and trade reforms, and all the measures needed to revitalize the



-8-
sector. IDA would also supervise the Italian funded Environmental Review.
Other sector work planned includes an Enterprise and Financial Secter Strategy
Paper and an Energy Assessment.
Imnact of Strategy on PovetSy and WID Igsues
29.   IDA's strategy just outlined will address poverty issues and help
mitigate the social costs of adjustment in several ways. Improving
agriculture, for example, will alleviate rural poverty and create rural
employment. The proposed Employment and Social Protection Project (FY93)
would help introduce food stamps, and school and/or clinic-based fooe.
distribution programs. IDA efforts will try to involve closely local and
international NOOs. The proposed Health Sector Strategy Paper, followed by a
Health Project (FY94) will reduce waste, improve the health care market, and
focus on maternal and child health issues. The proposed Water Supply Project
will reduce water-borne diseases for th. poor in the port city of Durres.
30.   Although Albanian wome have access to all levels of education, and
employment (49 percent of the work force are women), women have been
concentrated in lower paid and less prestigious occupations and are under-
represented in managerial and higher level positions. It is expected that the
transition period will impose added hardships on women; that the share of
women among the unemployed may increase substantially as men are rehired and
leave the ranks of the unemployed; and that women will remain unemployed for
longer periods of time. IDA will help to protect the welfare of women through
the design of the social safety net and the provision of employment services
and training. Other ptojects, such as those proposed for the agriculture and
energy sectors, will also be designed to enhance opportunities for female
employment and alleviate women's workload through the provision of alternative
cooking and heating fuels.
IFC MAMG
31.   IFC has received some joint venture project inquiries, particularly in
tourism and mining. Many investors are, however, waiting for property rights
to be clarified and for economic reforms to take hold before venturing in.
MICA has also had some enquiries and is ready to guarantee investments and
advise Albania on how to attract foreign investments.
Performance Monitoring
32.     In judging the country's progress towards more sustainable
development, as outlined above, IDA would monitor the following:
(i) government performance in implementing elements of the reform
program leading to fiscal, monetary, and balance of payments stability;
(ii) the anticipated increased supply response of the agricultural
sector:
(iii) progress in implementing other elements of the reform program
designed to revitalize private sector activity and exports such as price
liberalization, trade liberalization, and reform of the financial system;



(iv) implementation of reforms of the administrative and civil service
system commensurate with the new role of government;
(v) privatLzation and/or restructuring of selected public enterprises
and liberalization of the regulatory framework; and
(vi) edoption of a social safety net being designed and supported by
IDA.
Donr Coordination and Reslatons with the IMF
33.   Various donors have been providing assistance to Albania for the past
year and the G24 has been starting to coordinate some aid activities. As IDA
builds up ita presence in Albania, it can be expected to play an increasing
technical support role to che G24 based on its multisectoral experience, as
well as the overview provided by its economic and sector work. In conjunction
with the potential build-up of its lending program and the deepening of the
understanding of Albania's economy, IDA also plans to intensify its aid
coordination efforts in certain sectors. Already a large amount of time has
been spent in sharing information with donors, both formally in the context of
meetings organized by the EC/G24 and the UNDP and informally among staff
working on Albania. This effort is important in order to minimize the risk of
duplication of activities or provision of the same supplies, and to ensure
complementarity of tctivities by the donors. A meeting is planned by the
EC/G24 for July 1992 to discuss support to Albania for which the Bank will
help prepare some of the documentation. Recourse to bilateral trust funds is
increasing, and complementary activities with donors are being arranged.
34.   IDA has worked closely with the DMF to establish an early understanding
on the Albanian economy. Both institutions have coordinated their advice to
the Albanians on the refo-.mi program. On several occasions, IDA staff have
participated as observers in IMW missions, and in negotiations expected to
lead to the adoption of an IMF Program by July 1992. This joint effort will
intensify in the coming months with the preparation of a Policy Framework
Paper as background for the Fund's proposed ESAP credit, expected to be in
place by November 1992. The success of the Albanian program depends
critically on continued close coordination and cooperation between the IMF,
the EC institutions, the G24 countries and the World Bank group. The Albanian
Government fully encourages such close coordination.
PART II: THE PROJECT
35.   k^kgxmng.    As described in Part I, the economy of Albania is in the
midst of a severe crisis. Agriculture has been seriously affected by
shortages of fertilizers and other inputs, by the on-going process of
distribution of land to individual farmers and by the breakdown of the
previously existing input and output marketing system. The situation in other
sectors is also critical. Basic imports are urgently required to protect the
existing capital stock, prevent a further deterioration of the general
economic situation and generate supply response in key productive sectors.
Both agriculture and hydroelectric power, providing food and electricity, are



- 10 -
vital sectors of the economy as well as potential foreign exchange earners and
are the main sectors where urgent imports are required. The lack of spare
parts for the transport sector represents an important bottleneck preventing
inputs from reaching end-users in a timely fashion. The Critical Imports
Project concentrates on the immediate needs of the agriculture, power and
transport sectors.
36.   Proiect Objective.  The project's objective is to help maintain and
increase capacity utilizition and production in key productive sectors during
the next 12 to 18 months. This would be achieved by importing and
distributing to end-users critical imports, defined as those imports that are
considered necessary for reversing the downward spiral of production and for
generating quick supply response in those sectors.
37.   Proiect Descrintion.   The project would provide critical goods and
materials to enable vital sectors of the economy to continue to operate. It
would mostly finance the priority import requirements of the agriculture and
power sectors as well as other urgently required goods and services. The
target areas and the list of commodities were chosen to cover the large gaps
left by other immediately available external financing sources. The
agriculture comDonent (51 percent of project costs) would provide (a) urgent
inputs needed for crop production in 1992/93 (mostly seed, fertilizer and
pesticides), (b) urgent inputs needed for poultry/egg production in 1992/93
(breeding stock, feed maize), (c) spare parts and supplies for agricultural
mechanization, and (d) spare parts and equipment for irrigation
rehabilitation. The gower comgonent (28 percent of project costs) would
provide materials and equipment for (a) repairs of generating plants,
(b) rehabilitation of the transmission system, (c) rehabilitation of the
distribution network in Tirana, Shkoder and Durres, and (d) improvements in
the dispatching/monitoring system. The transport component (10 percent of
project costs) includes spare parts, batteries and tires for trucks, spare
parts and equipment for the port at Durres, and telecommunications systems for
the railways. About 9 percent of project funds have been set aside within the
g2neral rehabilitation component for rehabilitation needs in key productive
sectors not yet specifically identified. Under the ggM'eal administration
cgoonent (2 percent of project costs), the project would also finance imports
of office equipment for the public entities involved in project implementation
and consultant services for technical assistance in procurement and project
implementation. Details on goods and services to be importeA, costs, and
implementation arrangements for the main project components are provided in
Annexes 1 to 4.
38.   k gjct JylementaUM.      The management, administration and coordination
of the project will be the responsibility of a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) already established within the Mini-try of Finance and Economy. The
main functions of the PIU would be (a) to manage and administer the project,
(b) to handle all asiects of procurement, (c) to ensure the proper allocation
and distribution of the goods, (d) to coordinate with user-ministries and
agencies and (e) ensure that project goods complement and not duplicate other
aid available for critical inputs. An international procurement company
conversant with IDA procurement practices has already been recruited by the
Government under a PPF to assist the PIU and the project will also provide an
expatriate project manager under the national project director. Distribution
of goods will be to government agencies, in the case of power and transport,



- 11 -
and to independent end-users in the case of agriculture. The power component
will be implemented by the national power agency (DPE) and the transportation
component by the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Agriculture will
implement the agriculture component and ensure that inputs reach end-users.
Goods will be purchased by end-users, either on a cash basis or with credit
from a local bank. Domestic prices of all project-financed goods and key
output prices have been liberalized so that market prices will be applied in
their sale. Budgetary funds have been appropriated and are available to
ensure adequate project Tmplementation of all project components. Technical
assistance programs, to be financed by the Credit, have been introduced to
help project implementation in key areas as follows: (a) the procurement
manager and project manager positions for the PIU, (bj assisting in the
organization of the irrigation sub-component, (c) training of credit officers
of the district branches of the Agricultural Bank, and (d) ensuring safe use
and application of pesticides financed by the Credit.
39.   Agreements Reached. At negotiations, understandings acceptable to IDA
have been reached on the following topics aimed at ensuring successful project
implementation: (a) a detailed action plan for distribution of goods in each
import category would be prepared by the PIU and submitted to IDA for
approval; (b) adequate funds to cover all costs borne by Government agencies
to be appropriated in the 1993 budget (1992 budget needs are already
available); (c) agricultural imports would be sold at market-determined,
liberalized prices using existing marketing channels. Prices of agricultural
outputs purchased by state enterprises to be set close to international prices
such as to ensure high financial returns and to provide incentive for an
increase in agricultural production; (d) the power utility would cover local
cost of the Power Component and would agree with Government on repayment terms
for the foreign cost of imported power equipment. Four management team
leaders for the power component have been appointed; (e) imports under the
General Rehabilitation Component would address the priority needs of the
economy and be acceptable to IDA.
40. EnviXonmental Asnects. The main environmental impact of the project
would be from the use of agrochemicals. The project has been placed in the
B-category with respect to its environmental ranking. The pesticides to be
financed have been carefully selected so as to minimize their environmental
impact in accordance with Bank/IDA Guidelines. Several pesticides were
rejected at appraisal and alternative, lower risk items substituted. Most
pesticides are now in the lower toxicity class and the only two that are in
the higher toxicity class have a short persistence and readily break down once
in contact with the soil. Health and environmental impact would also be
reduced through technical assistance and training on proper methods of
storage, use and application of the chemicals, and protective gear provided
under the project. Bidding documents for pesticide supply will include
provisions for training to be provided by the supplier in handling and use.
41.   Program Obiective Categories.  The proposed project is likely to
contribute substantially to the alleviation of poverty and to the improvement
of living conditions of the population, especially in rural areas. It is
expected to increase small farmers' incomes significantly and will contribute
to the provision of currently scarce essential items such as food and
electricity in urban areas. Improved choice of pesticides and training in
used pesticides will have a beneficial environmental effect.



- 12 -
42.   Project Benefits.  Economic rates of return for the crop production and
poultry/egg production project components are estimated to be greater than 50
percent. The output, employment and balance-of-trade effects of the
agriculture sector input imports are likely to be considerable, as the country
would be able to increase domestic production substantially and reduce its
dependency on food imports. The economy-wide effects of the imports for the
power sector and transport sector would also be considerable given the
linkages between the energy sector and the rest of the economy and the
potential increase in energy exports that would result.
43. Rijka. The main risk associated with the project is that procurement
and logistical problems might delay or prevent the delivery of the critical
imports, thereby slowing down the economic recovery. To manage this risk, the
project arrangements have been designed carefully including the provision of
special procurement services under the project. Another risk is that public
entities would not be able to cover local costs in 1993 but adequate
provisions have already been made in the 1992 budget. There is also a risk of
reduced effective demand for agricultural inputs if, as a result of excessive
exchange rate fluctuation, increases in the domestic price of inputs are
large. This risk has been reduced by government actions to ensure that output
and input prices will remain in balance to assure adequate returns.
44.  1Re2    fi=tion.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1992



b   !~~~~- 41Sv,e tpe, #-,               r i  3i8
i : ~~~~~t ;- I I  In  0 2 pi  0%4sX 
*~ ~ ~ . m .{  vg  q ci  °R G.  c tij 
, X| |z , 0. s e q  , q e. n m n"  q O.  g  0, oh,   hit 
.~~~~~~~~~ 0
,S  t: Iq   of  1S-            ,S_:t at  S,  t 
Cy! st°" "  fit 4M4 9-w-e 0    so0  45
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 !?l!i8P$i'- i;;iG< °w  ii;i8;oi;
Sll  §1Mp  VA  "ll v:t Vwi  " C3,| in". inss C!vC! .  E   _



"**==>This document did not complete OCR process. <==**" 
