Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2404 ALB
(Critical Imports Project)
between
 ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 Dated June 29, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2404 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1992, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Government of Switzerland (Switzerland) intends to grant to the 
Borrower an aggregate principal amount equivalent to SFr 4 million (the Swiss Grant) 
to assist in financing power equipment for Part B of the Project on certain terms and 
conditions consistent with the objectives of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"DPE" means the Borrower's General Directorate of Power; 
 
(b)
"MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
 
(c)
"MOFE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economy;
 
(d)
"MOT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Communications;
 
(e)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established by the Borrower 
for implementation of this Project, which is required to be maintained by the Borrower 
under Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(f)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter dated April 1, 1992 
(PPF Agreement Letter P739-O ALB) between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
$30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Association the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn 
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
Page  3
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2002, and ending February 15, 2032. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2012 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and  outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through its Ministry of Finance and Economy with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, through, inter alia, adequate 
budgetary allocations, facilities, services, staff and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. To assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall maintain 
the PIU under terms of reference and staffing acceptable to the Association. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the goods imported under the 
Project are being distributed to the intended end-users in a manner acceptable to the 
Association and, in particular, consistent with Plans of Distribution prepared by the 
PIU, which plans shall be agreed to by the Borrower with the Association for each 
program component prior to the commencement of bidding for the provision of any goods 
relating to such component; and shall also, where provided for by any such Plan of 
Distribution, make the same goods available to the end-users in accordance with terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association. 
ARTICLE IV
Page  4
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than five months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that:
(a)
the Swiss Grant shall have failed to become effective by December 31, 
1992, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions 
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of 
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement; and 
(b)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Swiss Grant for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor, or 
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
Page  5
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. MOFE is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ Sokol Ne'aj
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods and                21,900,000        100% of foreign
     materials, in-                             expenditures
     cluding live-
     stock, for Parts A,
     B and C of the
     Project
(2)  Goods for Part D          2,555,000        100% of foreign
     of the Project                             expenditures
(3)  Goods and ser-              730,000        100% of foreign
     vices for Part E                           expenditures on
     of the Project                             goods and ser-
                                                vices
(4)  Refunding of                200,730        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (b) of this
                                                Agreement
(5)  Consulting Ser-             530,000        100%
     vices
(6)  Unallocated               4,084,270
                              __________
         TOTAL                30,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to help the Borrower maintain and increase 
capacity utilization and production in certain priority sectors of its economy.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Agricultural Sector
 
1.
Crop Production Programs
 
Provision of urgently needed inputs for crop production in 1992/93, including 
seed, fertilizer, pesticides, plastic sheeting, sprayer equipment and related 
technical assistance.
Page  7
2.
Poultry/Egg Production Program 
 
Provision of urgently needed inputs for poultry/egg production in 1992/93, 
including breeding stock and feed maize.
3.
Mechanical Equipment Program
 
Provision of spare parts and supplies for agricultural mechanization.
4.
Irrigation Program 
 
Provision of spare parts and equipment for irrigation rehabilitation and related 
technical assistance.
Part B:
Power Sector
 
1.
Provision of materials and equipment for repairs of generating plants.
 
2.
Provision of materials and equipment for rehabilitation of the transmission 
system.
3.
Provision of materials and equipment for rehabilitation of distribution networks 
in Tirana, Shkoder and Durres. 
4.
Provision of equipment for improvement of the dispatching/monitoring system.
 
5.
Provision of spare parts for major power generation plants, substations, 
transmission and distribution facilities.
Part C:
Transport Sector
 
Provision of equipment and parts needed for implementation of the agricultural 
and power sector components (Parts A and B) of the Project, and also for facilitation 
of distribution of essential goods, including spare parts, batteries, tires, workshop 
equipment for the MOT's truck fleet; and provision of spare parts and equipment for 
the port of Durres and for the railway telecommunications system.
Part D:
General Rehabilitation Component
 
Provision of urgently needed goods and equipment deemed essential for the 
maintenance of output and capacity utilization in priority sectors of the economy, as 
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Part E:
General Administration Component
 
Provision of imports of office equipment for the Ministries and public entities 
involved in the administration of the Project: the PIU, DPE, MOFE, MOA, and MOT and 
related technical assistance.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods which the Association agrees are available through limited sources of 
supply may be procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding 
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least 
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with 
Page  8
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 
2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.
Items or groups of items for non-propriety vehicle parts and other goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to  $7,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least 
two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
3.
Goods which the Association agrees are of a proprietary nature and replacement 
equipment for the power and transport sectors under Parts B and C of the Project, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,500,000, may be awarded after direct 
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to the first two contracts estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more under each Part of the Project and other items or groups of items 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. 
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Overall Program Implementation
 
The PIU shall act as the executing agency of the Borrower, with responsibility 
for carrying out general management, administration and coordination of all Parts of 
the Project, and shall ensure conformity with the objective of the Project and the 
obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01 (a), 3.02 and 3.04 of this Agreement. 
Specific responsibilities of the PIU include:
(a)
completing the detailed planning and preparation for the Project;
 
(b)
arranging for the proper procurement of all goods and equipment;
 
(c)
preparing, for each Project program or component for which the 
Association shall have so requested, a detailed action plan for the distribution of 
the goods to be imported under that program or component (the Plan of Distribution);
(d)
ensuring good coordination in the planned provision of goods under the 
Project with planned importation of goods financed by other external lending agencies 
or provided by  International donors;
(e)
ensuring timely submission of the Plans of Distribution to the Borrower 
and the Association for approval; 
Page  9
(f)
ensuring the proper allocation and distribution of goods to the intended 
end-users in accordance with the Plans of Distribution and in conformity with any 
special procedures required by the Association relating to the terms and conditions 
under which goods should be made available to end-users; 
(g)
monitoring overall execution of the Project; 
 
(h)
preparing and submitting withdrawal applications under the Credit;
 
(i)
maintaining the Project accounts required under Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement.
2.
Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project 
 
(a)
To assist in carrying out the responsibilities of the PIU for procurement 
under Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project, the lists of urgently needed imports 
required in particular  sectors or by particular public entities shall be finalized 
through the concerned user-Ministries or agencies of the Borrower, including MOA, MOFE 
and MOT.
(b)
To facilitate the importation of goods, the PIU shall contract to use the 
services of public or private foreign trade enterprises, under such conditions and 
with terms of reference as are acceptable to the Association.
(c)
In order to ensure the adequacy of financial resources required by 
non-state entities as provided for under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(i) identify particular financial institutions capable of servicing credit needs of 
the intended distributors and end-users under Part A; and (ii) provide all necessary 
administrative and financial support for such financial institutions, including by 
making budgetary allocations as necessary to satisfy liquidity and other requirements. 
3.
Part B of the Project 
 
(a)
All goods and services under Part B shall be provided to DPE.
 
(b)
DPE, with the assistance of the PIU, shall be responsible for, inter 
alia: (i) carrying out its own procurement directly; (ii) acceptance of delivery; and 
(iii) installation or use of the goods and equipment imported.
(c)
For each major subcomponent under Part B, Project management teams shall 
be maintained within DPE with staffing and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association.
