Page  1
January 8, 1993
His Excellency 
The Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Re:
Credit No. 2404-ALB
(Critical Imports Project)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 29, 1992, between the 
International Development Association (the Association) and Albania (the Borrower) for 
the above-referenced project, as amended on July 16, 1992.
     We are pleased to inform you that the Association hereby agrees to the requests 
made in your letters of November 20, 1992 and December 12, 1992 to the Association, to 
amend the Development Credit Agreement in order to increase the Special Account limit, 
and to add technical assistance to Part D of the Project.
Accordingly, the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.
Paragraph 1(c) in Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement is modified to 
read as follows:
"the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule."
2.
Part D of the Project in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
modified to read as follows:
"Provision of urgently needed goods, equipment, and technical assistance 
deemed essential for the maintenance of output and capacity utilization in 
priority sectors of the economy, as agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association."
This amendment shall become effective upon your agreement to the foregoing.  
Please agree and confirm your agreement by signing, dating and returning to us the 
form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter.  A signed duplicate original 
of this letter is enclosed for your 
records.
Sincerely yours
By s/ Kemal Davis
Director
Central Europe Department
Agreed and Confirmed
ALBANIA
By /s/ Genc Ruli
Authorized Representative
Miniter of Finance and Economy
Page  2
Date:  February 1, 1993
