RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2404 ALB
Development Grant Agreement
(in Conjunction with the Critical Imports Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ACTING AS ADMINISTRATOR ON BEHALF OF THE
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF TE NETHERLANDS
Dated             ec0, 1992


﻿RELATED To CREDIT NUMBER 2404 ALE
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                2-   , 1992, between ALBANIA
(the Beneficiary) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association), acting as Administrator (the Administrator) on behalf
of the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE NETHERLANDS (the
Minister).
WHEREAS (A) Pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement
(Critical Imports Project), dated June 29, 1992, between Albania
(the Beneficiary) and the Association (the Development Credit
Agreement), the Associat.on has agreed to extend to the Beneficiary
a Credit in an amount i various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,000,000) to assist in
the financing of a project (the Project) as described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement.
(B)   Pursuant to the Arrangement for Administration, dated
December 11, 1986, entered into between the Minister and the
Association (the Administration Arrangement), the Minister has
appointed the Association as Administrator of the Grant and has
authorized the Association to do all such acts and things as may be
necessary or appropriate to carry out such administration, including
entering into this Development Grant Agreement on behalf of the
Minister, and to extend the Grant on the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement.
(C)   The Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing to act as Administrator of the Grant.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, dated Yanuary 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:


﻿-2-
(a)   the term "Association", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the Association acting as Administrator of the
Grant;
(b)   the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the Beneficiary;
(c)   the term  "Credit", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the Grant;
(d)   the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions and herein, means the separate account opened by the
Administrator in its books in the name of the Beneficiary pursuant
to Section 3.01 (a) of the Administration Arrangement, to which the
amount of the Grant is credited;
(e)   the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used
in the General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement;
(M)   Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04,
4.06, Section 6.02 (except paragraph (a) thereof), 7.01, 8.01 (a),
12.05, and the second sentence of Section 5.01, are deleted; and
(g)   in Sections 2.01 and 6.02, the term "Association" shall
include also the Bank acting in its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwilse requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
mecnings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Beneficiary, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement and subject to the receipt of the funds to be made
available to the Administrator pursuant to Section 1.04 of the
Administration Arrangement, a grant in the amount of four million
and five hundred thousand Netherlands Guilders (DFL 4,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from


﻿-3-
time to time by agreement between the beneficiary         and the
Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying
out the Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)   Whenever a disbursement from the Credit Account is
required to be made in a currency other than Netherlands Guilders
for the purposes of this Grant Agreement, the Administrator shall
withdraw from the Credit Account an amount in Netherlands Guilders
sufficient for the Administrator to purchase the required amount of
the appropriate currency.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
shall be governed by the relevant provisions referred to in Section
3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such  later date   as the   Administrator  shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Beneficiary of such later
date.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Representatives
Section  3.01. The   following event   is specifiid  as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Administrator shall have received the funds referred to in
Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 3.03. Ministry of Finance and Economy of the
Beneficiary is designated as representative of the Beneficiary for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 3.04. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿Section 3.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. In accordance with Section 5.03 of the
Administration Arrangement, the rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the
Minister. The Beneficiary accepts and agrees that, upon notice by
the Administrator to the Beneficiary to that effect, the Minister
shall, i2so facto, from the date specified in such notice, be
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under
this Agreement as if the Minister had been an original party to this
Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the
part of any party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease
to have any rights or obligations as a party under this Agreement.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf
of the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT
COOPERATION OF THE NETHERLANDS
Authorized Representative


﻿.W6-
SCHEDULB
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.    The table below eets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              DFL Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods and materials,      4,500,000        100% of foreign
including livestock,                       expenditures
for Parts A, B and
C of the Project
TOTAL                 4,500,000
2.    For  the  purposes of this    Schedule  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


