Report No. PID5913
Project Name                    Mongolia-Fiscal Technical Assistance Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Technical Assistance Loan
Project ID                       MNPE51855
Borrower                         Mongolia
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance (MOF)
General Department of National Taxation
(GDNT)
Appraisal Date                   January 1998
Board Date                       April  1998
Date PID revised                 December 29, 1997
Recent Economic Developments
1.      After a   slowdown in reforms during 1994-1996, a   new
Government, elected in June 1996, launched an ambitious political
and economic reform program. In short order, the Government
introduced radical price reforms, new banking laws, revamped
privatization, abolished virtually all import tariffs, and closed
two large unviable banks. Mongolia's improved macroeconomic
performance, as evidenced by positive economic growth rates and
falling rates of inflation in 1997. GDP growth was 2.6 percent in
1996, and is projected to exceed 3 percent in 1997. Inflation, at
50 percent in 1996 and early 1997, has begun to decline, and is
projected to reach a year-end level of 25 percent. The budget
deficit is likely to shrink from 11 percent of GDP this year to just
over 9 percent by 1999. Foreign exchange reserves have increased in
recent months, and now exceed 11 weeks of imports. In July 1997 the
Government successfully negotiated a three-year Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) with the International Monetary Fund.
Key targets which the ESAF program will support include 5t annual
growth, and inflation in single digits by the year 2000.
Sector Background and Government's Reform Strategy
2.      Efficient management of public finance is key to sustaining the
gains of stabilization. Government budgets in transitional economies
are shrinking in line with the changing role of the state in market
economic systems. Expenditures need to shift to functions that
promote sustainable and equitable growth, whilst structural reforms
in the tax system are crucial for underpinning growth prospects.
Reforming the management of public finance is necessary to improve
the allocation of increasingly scarce public resources.
3.      In Mongolia, the role of Government in the economy has changed
significantly since the beginning of market reforms in 1990.
Government expenditures declined from 64 percent in 1990 to less
than 36 percent in 1996. However, revenues declined even faster,



resulting in a deficit of 9.3 percent of GDP in 1996, higher than
that of most other transitional economies. The recently approved
ESAF arrangement would reduce this deficit to levels compatible with
macroeconomic stability Improving Government financial management
is therefore essential for sustainable public finances in the
medium run.
4.      Legal Framework The legal basis for public administration
reform consists of the Law on Government, the Budget Law, the Law on
the Ministries, the Law on Agencies, the Law on Government Service.
The legal basis for public expenditure management has been
strengthened since the adoption of the budget law in 1992. This law
will be extensively revised as part of an integrated law on public
sector management and finance (1997 draft--see para 6. below), with
which all subsequent legislation will be expected to comply. The
framework for tax administration has been established under the
General Taxation Law (1993), the Law on Tax Assessments, Auditing of
Tax Payments and Tax Collections (1996), and the revised Tax Law (1997).
5.      Public Administration Reform   Improving financial management is
part of Mongolia's broader program public administration reform
which aims for a leaner, more efficient Government. The reforms
include a major reorganization of ministries and agencies. In
September 1996 the civil service was restructured into nine policy
ministries and associated implementing and regulatory agencies, to
delineate responsibilities more clearly and improve accountability.
These changes will need to be matched by a financial management
system that can ensure timely delivery of cost-effective Government
services at a level consistent with macroeconomic stability. The
Government's public finance reform strategy, includes tightening of
budget and fiscal management, development of medium to long-term
fiscal and financial policy management tools, and improvement of
management information systems to improve accountability and
performance monitoring.
6.      Public Expenditure Management Reform The Government's medium-
term strategy is to adopt output-based budgeting, management and
reporting, and to delegate input decisions to state secretaries and
chief executives, based on strategic plans of ministries and
agencies. The portfolio ministers will become purchasers of outputs
of services from those ministries and agencies. The Government's
strategy is embedded in a draft "Public Sector Management and
Finance Act (PSMFA) " which spells out the new responsibilities and
accountabilities of all public sector agencies and actors, and has
been presented to the Autumn Session of the Great Hural or
Parliament. Strong treasury management will ensure that ministries
and agencies face a hard budget constraint in budget implementation-
-which is crucial not only for aggregate fiscal discipline, but also
to enforce the efficiency gains envisioned by the new mode of public
administration.
7.      Tax and Tax Administration Reform The Government has also
started a major tax reform that aims for lower taxes, lower marginal
tax rates, and a broader tax base. Mongolia has made considerable
progress in tax policy and tax administration since 1990. The
- 2 -



framework for market-oriented taxes such as a personal income tax,
enterprise income tax, sales taxes and excise taxes was established
in 1993, and revised in 1997. Customs duties and a harmonized
system were implemented in 1993; new customs tariffs and customs
administration laws became effective in 1996. Except for alcoholic
spirits, import duties were abolished in 1997. The General
Department of State Taxation was established as a separate agency in
1992. Further reforms are needed to enhance the neutrality of the
existing system, in particular broadening of the tax base and
simplification of structures.
8.      The mainstay of the next phase of reforms is the introduction
of a Value Added Tax (VAT) down to the wholesale and retail level.
The VAT will build on the base of the current 10t sales tax--which
covers imports, manufacturing and limited service sectors--, and
will be extended to cover virtually all goods and services
(including capital goods), and an extremely broad range of
businesses, both legal entities and individuals. The Government
proposes to enact a VAT Law in January 1998, and implement the VAT
by July 1, 1998. Policy preparations are well advanced.
Prerequisites for successful implementation are: (i) a sound tax
administration that can effectively administer the increased
transaction volume at low cost to the taxpayer; and (ii) well-
informed taxpayers that know how to apply the new law.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
9.      Improving the capacity of the public sector to design and
implement policies using market-oriented instruments is one of the
core elements of IDA's country assistance strategy (FY95 CAS, and
FY98 CAS--forthcoming). IDA, in collaboration with the IMF and the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), has been assisting the Government in
setting priorities for budgetary expenditures and investment
programs through the 1997 Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), and as
part of the IMF-ESAF dialogue. Since 1992, IDA has provided
technical assistance for development of the Government's
macroeconomic management capability, and legal reform.
Links with Other IDA Operations
10.     The Technical Assistance Credit (TAC-2321-MOG) and an
associated PHRD Grant TF 021376-, approved in 1992, financed
specialist advisory assistance and training in macroeconomic
management and related disciplines for staff of six core economic
agencies, including the Bank of Mongolia (BOM), the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), and the Customs General Administration (CGA). In
1997, the TAC financed the installation of accounting systems and
software at BOM in line with BOM's conversion to international
accounting standards, provision of essential computer equipment for
the Banking Supervision Department, and a training course for legal
professionals. Cooperation with the IMF has been extensive to date,
particularly in delivery of technical assistance to BOM and MOF.
Project Objectives
-3-



11.     The overall objective of the proposed Fiscal Technical
Assistance Project is to improve the accountability and efficiency
of Mongolia's public sector. The project will focus on improving
budget preparation, and execution through development of a
computerized government budgeting, accounting and management
information system. The project will also assist the Mongolian
authorities in transforming the sales tax into a VAT. The project
will finance advisory services, training, and equipment, and
taxpayer services/education and public awareness. Individual
components focus strongly on on the job training to build long-term
capacity. The project envisages cooperation with other donors
primarily in the area of training.
Coordination with Other Donor Assistance
12.     Several donors have committed assistance in public
administration/public expenditure management reform. IDA has held
useful discussions with the New Zealand authorities, ADB, and UNDP
to identify respective commitments, and avoid duplication and
inconsistency. Ongoing activities are summarized below:
-- New Zealand ODA: three-year program for policy advice in public
administration reforms, including public expenditure management
reform. The proposed Fiscal TA project envisages synergies between
advisory services financed by New Zealand on reforms in the
decision-making process, civil service management structure and
accountability, and on policy issues related to public expenditure
management;
-- ADB: startup costs for the Government's public expenditure
management team, including an accounting advisor, and preliminary
training of Government accountants; Governance Program Loan (FY98);
enterprise accounting systems; training of tax officials;
-- UNDP: strengthening of external aid coordination and management.
Development of the public investment program (PIP); analysis of the
social impact of VAT introduction;
-- USAID: budget preparation and macroeconomic management; economic
policy advice;
-- German export credit for pilot computerization of Ulaanbaatar Tax
Administration (under consideration).
Project Design
13.     The total project cost is US5.5 million, of which US$5 million
will be financed by IDA, and the balance by the Government. The
proposed project components are as follows:
A.       Treasury Management and Government Accounting
This component will support the establishment of a single
treasury account in BOM, backed by a general ledger system within
MOF. It will facilitate the modernization of budget execution,
- 4 -



fiscal reporting and core Government accounting computer systems
through provision of consulting services, equipment, software, and
on the job training. The component will finance advisory services
to assist MOF's treasury department in developing expenditure
controls, and procedures for disbursement, cash management and debt
management, including data system links, and in redesigning MOF's
existing management information system. IDA will also organize
short training courses and seminars for senior officials and working
level staff. In coordination with other donors, this component will
finance the services of a Government accounting advisor to assist
with implementation. The project will finance computer equipment
and software for a new management information system.
B.      Implementation of a Value-Added Tax (VAT)
This component will build on advisory assistance provided by
the IMF in tax reform, including VAT design, over the past several
years. It will finance a long-term VAT implementation advisor,
short-term advisors on taxpayer services, audit and tax accounting
systems development, and study tours for staff of implementing
agencies prior to and immediately after the formal introduction of
VAT. In addition, this component will finance equipment and supplies
to support the establishment of aimag-based taxpayer service
centers, and printing/publishing equipment to be used in Ulaanbaatar
to support taxpayer education and staff training.
Project Implementation
14.     The project will be implemented over a four-year period. The
implementing agencies are: Ministry of Finance (public expenditure
management reform) and the General Department of National Taxation
(VAT implementation). The agencies will be responsible for
procurement and disbursement arrangements, including selection of
consultants, equipment purchase, arrangement of training courses and
technical supervision of studies. MOF will be responsible for
preparation of consolidated Project Accounts.
Lessons from Previous IDA Operations
15.     IDA, frequently in cooperation with the IMF, has broad
experience of implementing financial management systems across
transitional economies.    This experience has shown that the
principal determinant for successful public administrative reforms
is political commitment. Earlier attempts to reform Mongolia's
administration and public financial management were less than
successful because political commitment was uncertain. The current
project supports a program that is strongly backed at the highest
political level. Second, IDA's experience highlights the need for
core financial management processes. Without such a system in
place, reform goals are frustrated by insufficient and erratic
funding of agency initiatives, and by limited accountability for
results. Third, public administration reforms take time, usually
much longer than planned. The project will prospectively adopt a
flexible approach to timing by defining implementation stages.
Implementation will proceed to the next stage once the previous one
- 5-



is completed successfully. Successful completion is defined by
measurable indicators of success. Finally, introduction of a VAT in
other countries has crucially depended on a sound tax administration
and well informed tax payers. The project focuses on these two key
elements.
Benefits
16.     Public Expenditure Management Development of a central treasury
management system and improving the budgeting process and debt
management will contribute to reducing Government borrowing needs
and borrowing costs. By improving budget preparation and execution,
Government would increase macroeconomic control. The project will
develop technical skills, and enable access to timely, accurate and
consistent financial information to improve resource planning, cash
management, macroeconomic forecasting and public expenditure
management and control. The direct beneficiaries are MOF and Bank of
Mongolia (BOM-the central bank). Other budget units will also
participate in the reform process. With regard to VAT Introduction,
the project will help to introduce a broad-based non-distorting
source of revenue that captures the expanding private sector. The
direct beneficiaries are the General Department of National
Taxation, and regional offices; the Customs General Administration,
and the Treasury.
Risks
17.     Principal risks, and suggested mitigation strategies include:
-- Inadequate coordination of donor-financed activities, resulting in
donor competition, policy confusion and duplication of support.
Mitigation: MOF designates one or two officials with responsibility
for donor liaison. Donors exchange periodic bilateral updates on
project preparation, and participate in local donors' meetings.
-- Overambitious schedule of public expenditure reforms. Mitigation:
Implementation plan revised to spell out specific outputs, detailed
human resource requirements, schedule, resources, risks and
performance monitoring indicators, whilst taking into account the
time required for consensus-building.
-- Problems with integration of new MIS with existing systems and
software. Mitigation Diagnostic study; consultation with users.
Prior installation of new systems in central bank provides a
demonstration effect.
-- Adverse public reaction to VAT. Mitigation: Taxpayer service
centers established and aggressive public information campaign launched.
Program Objective Category
18.     The program objective categories are public sector management
and institutional capacity-building.
Poverty Category
-6-



19.     Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
20.     The proposed Project has been placed in Environmental Category
"C' and does not require an environmental assessment.
Contact Point            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1776 G Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone:       (202) 458-5454
Fax:             (202) 458-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending January 16, 1998.
- 7 -



