Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1 7460-MOG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
(US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO MONGOLIA
FOR A
FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 16, 1998
South East Asia and Mongolia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 27, 1998)
Currency Unit    =       Tugrik
Tug I           US$0.0012
US$1    =       Tug 816
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)               =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          -    0.62 miles
I square kilometer (kin2)       100 ha
I lectare (ha)            =    2.47 acres
I ton (t)                 =    1, 000 kg
-    2, 205 pounds
I kilogram (kg)           -    2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
BOM         Bank of Mongolia (Central Bank)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CGA         Customs General Administration
DBMS        Database Management System
EDI         Economic Development Institute
ESAF        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDNT        General Department of National Taxation
GZT         Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
MOF         Ministry of Finance
NZODA       New Zealand Overseas Development Agency
PARPMG    Public Administration Reform Project Management Group
PSMFA       Public Sector Management and Finance Act
RDBMS       Relational Database Management System
SAB         State Audit Board
SSC         State Services Council
TAC         Technical Assistance Credit
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
VAT         Value Added Tax
Vice President             Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director            Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Manager (Acting)     Pieter Bottelier, EASPR
Task Manager                Natasha Beschomer, EACSM



CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objectives ...............................................................2
1. Project development objectives ...............................................................2
B: Strategic Context ...............................................................2
1. CAS Document number and date of latest CAS discussion .........................................................2
2. Main  Sector Issues and Government Strategy ...............................................................2
c. Tax and Tax Administration Reform ...............................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ............................................4
C. Project Description Summary ...............................................................4
1. Project Components ...............................................................4
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project .................................................5
3. Benefits and Target Population ...............................................................5
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ...............................................................5
D. Project Rationale ...............................................................5
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................5
2. Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other Development Agencies ............................5
2. Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design: ..........................................................7
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...............................................................7
5. Value added of IDA  support: ...............................................................7
E. Summary Project Analysis ..........................8
1. Economic ........................8
2. Financial Assessment ........................8
3. Technical Assessment ........................8
4. Institutional Assessment ........................8
5. Social Assessment: ........................9
6. Environmental Assessment ....................9
7. Participatory Approach ....................9
F. Sustainability and Risks ..................                                                                                                           10
1. Sustainability ..................                                                                                                        10
2. Critical Risks ..................                                                                                                         10
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................... 11
G: Main Credit Conditions ....................................                                                                                           11
1. Effectiveness Conditions .....................................11
2. Other Covenants in the Credit Agreement: ....................................                                                            11



- ii -
H: Readiness for Implementation .......................................                                              11
L Compliance with IDA Policies .......................................                                               12
Annex 1:   Project Design Summary ........................................                                           13
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description ........................................                                     14
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs ........................................                                          22
Annex 4:   Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary ........................................                              23
Annex 5:   Financial Summary ........................................                                                24
Annex 6:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ........................................                        25
Annex 7:   Project Processing Budget and Schedule ........................................                           28
Annex 8:   Documents in the Project File ........................................                                    29
Annex 9:   Statement of Loans and Credits ........................................                                   30
Annex 10: Country at a Glance ........................................                                               31
Annex 11: Project Implementation Plan ........................................                                       33
Annex 12: Guidelines for Selection of Equipment for the Government Financial Management
System Component and Indicative Terms of Reference for Information Technology
Consultants ............................... 54
Annex 13: Terms of Reference for VAT Component Technical Assistance ............................................ 58
Map: IBRD 26450
Acknowledgements
The Project Team acknowledges the close collaboration with the staff of the Ministry of Finance, the
General Department of National Taxation, and other agencies and working groups participating in the
public administration reform program, including the Public Administration Reform Project Management
Group. The Project Team also wishes to highlight the support of the IMF Fiscal Affairs Department in
project design and preparation, specifically in: analysis of public expenditure management and
Government accounts, analysis and recommendations on value-added tax (VAT), assistance to the
Government in preparation of legislation and regulations on VAT introduction, and assistance with
preparation of terms of reference for advisory services. In addition, the Project team recognizes the
contributions of colleagues from the Asian Development Bank, the Government of New Zealand and the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in project preparation and review.



Mongolia
F'iscal Technical Assistance Credit
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Mongolia
Date: 03/09/98                                                    [ ] Draft       [x] Final
Country Manager: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala          Task Team Leader: Natasha Beschomer
Sector Manager: Pieter Bottelier (Acting)
Project ID: MN-PE-5 1855                      Sector: Economic Management        POC: II
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan  PTI:       [X] Yes             []No
Project Financing Data                  [] Loan        Credit      []  Guarantee  [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ M/SDR M): IBRD Credit US$5.0 million equivalent/SDR 3.8 million
Proposed Terms:          [ ] To be defined  [   Multicurrency    [ ]  Single currency
Grace period (years): 10          []  Standard Variable [ ]  Fixed         []  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50 %
Service charge: 0.75%        max. contractual
Financing plan (US$ M): US$5.5
Source                               Local            Foreign        Total
Government                                                    0.50             0.00          0.50
IDA                                                           0.00             5.00          5.00
Total                                                  0.50             5.00          5.50
Borrower: Government of Mongolia
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Finance General Department of National Taxation, Public Administration Reforn
Project Management: Group (PARPMG)
Project implementation Period: 4 years
Estimated Disbursements (IDA FY/US$ M)         1998    1999       2000        2001
Annual                                      0.2     2.6        2.2         1.0
Cumulative                                  0.2     2.8        4.0         5.0
Project implementation period: March 31, 1998 - March 31, 2001
Expected effectiveness date: September 1998
Expected closing date: June 30, 2001



Page 2
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
The objectives of the Project are:
* To increase the efficiency and accountability of Government through designing and implementing an
improved government financial management system.
* To set up a more effective, nondistortive system of Government revenue mobilization through
introduction of a value-added tax (VAT) on goods and services.
The proposed project would be part of a broader program of donor assistance to support the
Government's program of Public Administration Reform. It would complement technical assistance for
governance reforms, and public sector accounting, aid coordination and macroeconomic management
provided by the Asian Development Bank, (ADB), the Government of New Zealand (NZODA), UNDP
and the IMF. In addition, the project would support policy reforms in public expenditure management
agreed with the IMF under the 1997-99 Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) program, thus
contributing to Mongolia's stabilization and structural reform efforts as a whole. This project is, in part, a
follow-up to the first IDA Technical Assistance Credit (2321-MOG), which financed advisory support
and training in budget management, treasury management, tax and tax administration reform and central
bank accounting for the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Bank of Mongolia (BOM), and which was
implemented in association with the IMF.
B: Strategic Context
1. CAS Document number and date of latest CAS discussion: Document 14565-MOG; latest CAS
discussion June 2, 1995.
The last CAS prepared for Mongolia was discussed by the Board in June 1995. The 1995 CAS supported
technical assistance for macroeconomic management. A new CAS is under preparation, and will be
presented to the Board with the Fiscal TA Project. Continuing support for the Government's efforts in
macroeconomic stabilization and management is one of the key objectives of the new CAS, particularly
in light of the recent approval of the 1997-99 ESAF. Other objectives of the new FY98-00 CAS are:
support for private sector development, promoting equity in development-including poverty alleviation,
and developing the infrastructure base. Capacity-building in all target sectors and coordination with other
donors are cross-cutting themes of the new CAS. This proposed operation is therefore fully consistent
with IDA's medium-term assistance program in Mongolia.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
a. Recent Economic Developments
After a slowdown in reforms during 1994-96, a new Government, elected in June 1996, launched an
ambitious political and economic reform program. In short order, the Government introduced radical
price reforms, new banking laws, revamped privatization, abolished virtually all import tariffs, and closed
two large unviable banks. In June 1997, the Government also reached an Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) agreement with the IMF that is improving macroeconomic conditions. The stabilization
efforts are starting to pay off, and inflation is falling rapidly, reaching a 1997 year-end level of 17.5
percent.



Page 3
b. Treasury lManagement and Accounting
Sound public finances are essential for sustaining the gains of stabilization, and are the basis for a leaner,
more efficient public administration, which is the Government's objective. The Government has started a
far-reaching civil service reform program, based on the model of public administration developed in New
Zealand in the period 1988-94. In September 1996 the civil service was restructured into nine policy
ministries and associated implementing and regulatory agencies, to delineate responsibilities more clearly
and improve accountability. The Government's medium-term strategy is to adopt output-based budgeting,
management and reporting, and to delegate input decisions to state secretaries and chief executives, based
on strategic plans of ministries and agencies. The portfolio ministers will become purchasers of outputs of
services from those ministries and agencies. The Government's strategy is embedded in a draft "Public
Sector Management and Finance Act" (PSMFA), which spells out the new responsibilities and
accountabilities of all public sector agencies and actors. The Act was presented to the Autumn Session of
the Great Hural or Parliament and is expected to be passed in the Spring 1998 session.
Successful implementation of the public administration reforms requires a Government financial
management and information system, consistent with the overall model adopted. Strong budget
management will assist the Government in managing its revenues and expenditures to budget objectives,
and provides incentives to budget-holding entities to use resources efficiently and within their legal
authority. It will ensure that ministries and agencies face a hard budget constraint in budget
implementation-which is crucial not only for aggregate fiscal discipline, but also to enforce the
efficiency gains envisioned by the new mode of public administration.
Currently, treasury management is still based on the old Soviet system, which disburses money from the
central treasury to ministry accounts. Numerous extrabudgetary funds exist, and cash management is
hardly developed, and not effectively linked to debt management. The system does not allow for costing
of products and activities which is essential for the New Zealand style system of public sector
management. Currently, agencies have an accounting system with accrual elements, but reporting to the
Ministry of Finance is limited, cash-based and irregular. It is key to the success of the reforms that
reporting and budgeting be improved, and accountability be enforced, through an effective audit agency.
c. Tax and Tax Administration Reform
The Government has also started a major tax reform that aims for lower tax/GDP ratio, lower marginal
tax rates, and a broader tax base, Mongolia has made considerable progress in tax policy and tax
administration since 1990. The framework for market-oriented taxes such as a personal income tax,
enterprise income tax, sales taxes and excise taxes was established in 1993, and revised in 1997. Customs
duties and a harmonized system were implemented in 1993; new customs tariffs and customs
administration laws became effective in 1996. Except for alcoholic spirits, import duties were abolished
in 1997. The General Department of State Taxation was established as a separate agency in 1992. Further
reforms are needed to enhance the neutrality of the existing system, in particular broadening of the tax
base and simplification of structures.
The mainstay of the next phase of reforms is the introduction of a Value Added Tax (VAT) down to the
wholesale and retail level. The VAT will build on the base of the current 10 percent sales tax-which
covers imports, manufacturing and limited service sectors-and will be extended to cover virtually all
goods and services (including capiital goods), and a broad range of businesses, both legal entities and
individuals. The Government enacted a VAT Law on January 8, 1998, to become effective July 1, 1998.
The main provisions of the draft VAT law are consistent with a full-fledged VAT and the law includes all



Page 4
the elements necessary for an appropriate legal structure to operate the tax. Implementation activities are
under way.
Key to the success of a VAT are: (a) a sound tax administration that can effectively administer the
increased transaction volume at low cost to the taxpayer; and (b) well-informed taxpayers that know how
to apply the new law. A better tax administration requires intensive training of tax administration
officials, design of new procedures, development of the audit function, reorganization of the tax
administration, and an information system that supports the new organization. Taxpayer awareness
requires an extensive information campaign.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
The project consists of selective interventions under the Government's overall framework of public
administration reform. These interventions support specific targets for fiscal reform agreed under the
ESAF, and are considered by the Government as priorities for external assistance:
*   financing the development of a budget execution and treasury management system, and a
Govemment accounting and reporting system.
*   financing the implementation of new tax administration procedures, particularly advisory assistance
and training to support the introduction of VAT, a public information campaign for taxpayers, and
related taxpayer services.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project Components
Component                                                 Category        IDA Financing   Indicative Costs
I (US$ million)    (US$ million)
A. Government financial management                                            4.04 (81%)       4.49
A.1 Advisory Services: Treasury, Government Accounting   Consultants          0.64             0.69
A.2 Training in Government accounting, auditing,
management and related disciplines (in-country and  Consultants, Training  0.80            0.95
overseas
A.3 Equipment and Software for Treasury and Debt    Equipment
Management systems                                                       0.60              0.65
A.4 Equipment and Software for Government Accounting    Equipment Training
System, including IT advisory support and training in                    2.00              2.20
systems design and recurrent costs (license fees,
telecommunications, operational expenses)
B. VATIntrodutdion                                                            0.50(19%)        0.55
B. I Short-Term Advisors:taxpayer services, audit, computer  Consultants      0.25             0.27
programming
B.2 Study Tours                                     Training                  0.06             0.07
B.3 Equipment and Supplies                          Equipment                 0.14             0.15
B.4 Public Information Campaign                     Training, Consultants     0.05             0.06
Subtotal                                                             4.54              5.04
Price and Cost Contingencies                                                  0.45             0.46
Total                                                                         5.00             5.50



Page 5
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
a. Public administration reformn
b. Government financial management reform
c. Tax and tax administration reform
3. Benefits and Target Population
*  Government Financial Management System. Development of management, audit and accounting
skills, treasury management and an aggregate accounting system  will improve government
effectiveness, efficiency and expenditure control, and improve cash and debt management, thus
contributing to reducing Government borrowing needs and borrowing costs. Targets: Ministry of
Finance (MOF), State Audit Board, State Services Council, Bank of Mongolia (BOM-central bank),
Government Agencies (budget units).
*  VAT Introduction. The project will help to introduce a broad-based nondistorting source of revenue
that captures the expanding private sector. Targets: General Department of National Taxation, and
regional offices; Customs General Administration.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
This project will support the Government's overall program of Public Administration Reform. This
program is being managed by a project implementation team under the guidance of a Steering Committee
headed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. The Steering Committee is responsible for
signing off on key project outputs, and is supported by an international advisory panel. Under the project
implementation team, a treasury and accoul:ting working group, headed by the fiscal policy department of
MOF and consisting of representatives of line ministries, BOM and the State Audit Office, is responsible
for redesigning the treasury and accounting system. A steering group consisting of MOF and GDNT is
responsible for VAT implementation. Three working groups, comprising representatives of MOF and
GDNT and the Customs General Administration (CGA), have been set up to manage this process.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Additional components considered were advisory services for budget preparation and budget discipline.
However, the Government indicated that these would be financed by other donors: New Zealand ODA
and Asian Development Bank.
2. Major relatedprojects financed b7y IDA and/or other Development Agencies
Latest Form
Sector Issue                           Project/Nonlending     590 Ratings
IDA-financed
IDA, in collaboration with the IMF and the Asian Development Bank  Country Economic Memorandum, 1997
(ADB), has been assisting the Government in setting priorities for Public Expenditure Review (1999)
budgetary expenditures and investment programs. through the 1997
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), and as part of the IMF-
ESAF dialogue.
Since 1992, IDA has provided technical assistance for development of Technical Assistance Credit 2321-MOG   S    S



Page 6
Latest Form
Sector Issue                                  Project/Nonlending          590 Ratings
the Government's macroeconomic management capability. IDA has
financed specialist advisory assistance and training in macroeconomic
management and related disciplines for staff of six core economic
agencies, including the Bank of Mongolia (BOM), the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), the Customs General Administration (CGA), and the
Ministry of Justice.
IDA is currently supporting structural reforms in the banking and  Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical
enterprise sectors, and in the legal framework (insolvency, collateral  Assistance Credit 2948-MOG  (signed
registration, enforcement of court judgments)                 07/31/97)
Other Development Agencies
Public Administration Reforms-NZODA                           Advisory assistance to MOF and the
Prime Minister's office on the NZ
model.
Accounting Training-ADB                                       Assistance to enterprises and develop-
ment of university curriculum.
Audit Reform-GTZ                                              Support for the State Audit Office to
improve audit practices.
Program Preparation for Governance Reform-ADB                 Technical assistance for startup costs for
public administration reform; short-term
advisors on public admin, privatization,
legal reform, government accounting
Governance Program Loan-ADB                                   Policy-based loan, to be developed in
1998.
TA for Public Administration Education-EU/TACIS               Training in public sector management at
Institute of Administration and Manage-
ment Development; support to Cabinet
Secretariat and State Services Council
Economic  and  Social consequences  of VAT  study-UNDP   Social impact assessment.
(completed; ongoing monitoring)
Aid Coordination Assistance-UNDP                              Support to MOF and Aid Coordination
Unit.
Japan and IMF                                                 Long-Term VAT Advisorl
Tax computerization pilot-German export credit                Commercial loan to GDNT
1   This advisor would have originally been financed by the project. However, the Govemment of Mongolia obtained a grant from Japan,
administered by the IMF, to finance this advisor.



Page 7
2. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
A key determinant for successful public administration reforms is political commitment. Earlier attempts
to reform Mongolia's administration and public financial management were less than successful because
political commitment was uncertain. The current project supports a program that is strongly backed at the
highest political level, including the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. The Government has
started a comprehensive campaign to build support for the reforms. Among others, weekly TV programs
discuss the draft law, and regular newspaper advertisements disseminate the key ideas of these reforms.
The draft law has been discussed in Parliament where it found broad support among the ruling parties.
The opposition demanded more time to evaluate the details of the reform.
Earlier attempts at public administration reforms have neglected the core financial management processes
of Government. The reform goals were therefore frustrated by insufficient and erratic funding of agency
initiatives, and by limited accountability for results. The current project therefore focuses on the core
financial management processes. The accountability systems to be implemented support current and
future public administration structures.
Public administration reforms take time, usually much longer than planned. The Government aims for a
very quick implementation of the reforms. The project will prospectively adopt a flexible approach to
timing by defining implementation stages. The financial management system, together with the new
Public Administration Reforms, wi[ll be piloted in three entities before rollout to other ministries.
Implementation will proceed to the next stage once the previous one is completed successfully.
Introduction of a VAT in other countries has crucially depended on a sound tax administration and well
informed tax payers. The project focuses on these two key elements. VAT introduction has sometimes
failed because of the impact on living standards, as it was accompanied by price increases. The
Mongolian VAT replaces a broad-based sales tax, exempts education and health services, and should
therefore have only minimal price effects.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The borrower is highly committed to both public administration reform and VAT introduction. The
clearest sign of this is the supporting legislation on Public Administration Reform, which is now before
Parliament. The borrower has also set up a Steering Committee for the Public Administration Reforms,
consisting of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and has established a director for public
administration reforms in MOF and has started a publicity campaign to promote the reforms. The
borrower has also set up an interagency working group for the VAT, and has already taken steps to
develop an information system to support the VAT introduction.
5. Value added of IDA support:
IDA, frequently in cooperation with the IMF, has broad experience of implementing financial
management systems across transitional economies. Its experience in public administration reforms can
guide Government in its reform program. IDA is thoroughly familiar with Mongolia's budgetary
management, and has recommended numerous improvements in budgetary planning, Public Investment
Program, and aid coordination. IDA has supported several programs of tax administration reform, most
recently in transitional economies. IDA will provide assistance with identifying international consultants
with technical expertise in the project component areas, and in locating the most appropriate computer
equipment and software, based on international practice.



Page 8
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
(see Annex 4)
2. Financial Assessment
N/A
3. Technical Assessment
The project would finance international standard hard and software for financial management. BOM has
already installed a sophisticated international standard General Ledger/central bank accounting system.
For cost and technical support reasons, unity of the system should be sought. Agencies whose functional
requirements cannot be met by this system would choose solutions appropriate to their needs. The use of
international standard platforms and Relational Database Management Systems, combined with training
of local staff, has the advantage that this could add to the international prospects of Mongolia's nascent
software industry.
4. Institutional Assessment
a. Executing agencies:
The project is expected to help MOF and GDNT develop their long-term financial management capacity
through technical skills development, on-the-job implementation assistance, training, studies and
provision of equipment. The project will build on previous efforts, particularly technical assistance in
these fields financed by the IMF, IDA, ADB, NZODA and USAID.
b. Project management:
Government Financial Management
The Public Administration Reform Project Management Group (PARPMG) is in charge of Public
Administration Reforms under the guidance of a steering committee of the Prime Minister, the Finance
Minister and chairmen of the State Audit Board and the State Services Council. A Public Administration
Reform Implementation Team, led by the Director for Public Administration Reforms is in charge of
implementation. Under the Implementation Team treasury and accounting working groups have been set
up, with broad representation from the agencies that will operate the system. The director of the fiscal
policy department of MOF will head the working group. Other working groups will be established
following enactment of the PSMFA.
Tax Administration:
A VAT management committee will be set up, headed by the director general of the GDNT. Day-to-day
project implementation will be the responsibility of an interagency working group comprising staff of
MOF, GDNT and the Customs General Administration. An IMF-supervised long-term VAT advisor will
support implementation.



Page 9
Overall Project Coordination and Financial Management
PARPMG and GDNT will be responsible for managing project activities. MOF will be responsible for
maintaining project accounts. MOF is responsible for the accounting function for the Government as a
whole. Staff in MOF are therefore familiar with accounting and auditing practices, standards, and internal
controls required to ensure adherence to proper accounting and auditing standards. The project will
nevertheless provide assistance to MOF to finance accounting and disbursement specialists, acceptable to
IDA, to ensure that a proper financial management system is in place and that project-related
accounting/auditing and disbursement activities are carried out satisfactorily and in accordance with IDA
procedures. Periodic project reports' would, inter alia, include: (a) financial statements that give an
assessment of the projects financial status, including reports of costs actually incurred by expenditure
category and variances compared to the plan for the period; (b) project progress reports, that give a
summary of the status of the project and explanation and variances in key project indicators listed in
Annex 1; and (c) procurement management reports giving status and details of contracts above the prior
review threshold.
5. Social Assessment:
The social impact of the VAT is limited because the VAT replaces a broad-based sales tax, and exempts
education and health services. The taxpayer awareness canpaign financed under the project is aimed to
ensure public awareness, both by business and consumers. This should limit undue price increases as a
consequence of the VAT. Possible increases in tax burden through VAT introduction is more than offset
by the abolition of customs duties in May 1997. Finally, food prices have risen by only 10 percent over
the last year, about half the overall CPI increase. These price developments have favored the purchasing
power of the poor, who spend a large part of their income on food.
6. Environmental Assessment
Environmental Category    [ A        []B      [x] C
7. Participatory Approach
Identification/Preparation           Implementation                 Operation
Beneficiaries/commu- MOF, Prime Minister's Office,   MOF treasury department will be responsi-   MOF fiscal policy
nity groups        GDNT, have been deeply        ble for implementation; GDNT and MOF for department, line
involved in project preparation    VAT                             ministries, BOM;
GDNT
NGOs                                             The project team will attempt to identify  Public awareness
NGOs to assist with public awareness  campaigns
campaigns for VAT.
Academic institutions UtNDP-financed academic study   The group will continue to monitor VAT
on policy implications and social  impacts during project implementation
impact of VAT introduction
Local Government    Limited consultation with local   Will be involved in secondary phases of  Taxpayer services
Government budgetary units and  treasury management system rollout. Tax-   centers providing
local offices of tax administration payer service centers to be established  ongoing services
countrywide
Other donors       The New Zealand Government,   The New Zealand Government will continue  Government
ADB and UNDP financed project to finance advisors to the project Steering    responsible for
preparation activities for the  Committee. ADB plans a governance project donor coordination
broader program of public   loan; Government is responsible for donor
administration reform.       coordination



Page 10
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The objective of the project is long-term capacity building and institutional development. Sustainability is
thus a core element of the project. The proposed interventions are designed to have long-term benefits,
provided the Government remains committed to overall project objectives. The proposed systems are
designed to function regardless of difficulties with the overall program of public administration reform.
Key conditions for sustainability are: ability of MOF to assimilate and retain transfer of technology;
ability of MOF to retain qualified staff; sufficient attention to training of trainers; effective
communication to taxpayers on administrative procedures for VAT; ability of GDNT to staff taxpayer
service centers adequately to respond to public concerns.
2. Critical Risks
(see fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                                              Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
a. Project outputs to development objectives
* Inadequate coordination of donor-financed activities,   M/H    * MOF designates one or two officials with responsibility
resulting in donor competition, policy confusion and         for donor liaison. Donors exchange periodic updates on
duplication of support. Government sends mixed               project preparation, and participate in local donors'
signals to donors.                                           meetings.
* Tight schedule of public expenditure reforms, and   H      * Implementation plan revised to spell out specific out-
strong borrower pressure.                                    puts, detailed human resource requirements, schedule,
resources, risks and performance monitoring indicators,
while taking into account the time required for consen-
sus-building. The borrower may wish to consider pro-
curement of project tracking software
b. Project components to outputs
* Inadequate coordination between MOF, BOM, and       H      * Written agreement on the terms of their cooperation,
commercial banks  in  management of treasury                 covering authority over funds transfer, service stand-
accounts.                                                    ards, and interest paid and charged on Government
credit and debit balances
* Safety of Government money in a weak banking        M      * Under the project, selection criteria for banks that han-
system                                                       dle Government money will be developed, including
the ability to deliver the required service standards, and
the safeness and soundness of the banks.
* Problems with integration of new MIS with existing    L/M  * Involvement of users in the design and implementation
systems and software.                                        of the system. Prior experience of installation of new
systems in central bank.
* Adverse public reaction to VAT                      M      * Taxpayer service centers established and aggressive
public information campaign launched.
* Public awareness campaign, enlisting NGOs where
appropriate.
Overall project risk rating                           H



Page 1 1
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Possible controversial aspects of the project include:
*  Ambitious and risky nature of the Government's overall agenda for Public Administration Reform. It
is not clear at this stage to what extent the overall program enjoys the broad support of ministries and
agencies, and other stakeholders. The project team fully recognizes the advantages of the New
Zealand system of administration, which has achieved remarkable results in the efficiency of service
delivery. At the same time, the team feels that implementing such an approach in Mongolia bears
significant risks, notably because the authorities plan to introduce the system within the next two to
three years. In New Zealand, which already had a fully developed accounting and management
information system, the design and implementation of similar reforms took several years, and even
now the system is still being fine tuned.
*  Selection of commercial banks for handling public money. The treasury system envisages that a
significant part of government banking services is handled by commercial banks. There are only a
few viable banks in Mongolia, and conflict of interest in choosing the government bank may arise.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Establishment and maintenance of project steering committees for the Treasury/Accounting component
and for the VAT Introduction component.
2. Other Covenants in the Credit Agreement:
*  To maintain project steering committees for the Budget and Treasury Management/Accounting
component and for the VAT Introduction component.
*  To maintain a Budget and Treasury Management/Accounting working group with involvement of the
agencies that will operate the system
*  To ensure that the design of the government financial management system allows MOF to discharge
its responsibilities under the (draft) Public Sector Management and Finance Act.
*  To ensure that only banks and financial institutions that meet the prudential requirements of the Bank
of Mongolia are selected for the the provision of government banking services.
*  To designate a project manager who will also coordinate activities of donors in public administration
reform, and act as a liaison between Government and donors on procurement, disbursement and other
implementation issues.
*  To report to IDA semiannually on project implementation progress.
H: Readiness for Implementation
The project has been prepared in consultation with interagency working groups on public administration
reform and tax reform. Political coimmitment is strong. The Government is ready to implement the
project, and a great deal of startup activity has already taken place, financed largely by other donors
(ADB/NZODA). The Government has requested retroactive financing to enable the implementation of
VAT legislation to begin as quickly as possible. The Government has prepared a Project Implementation
Plan for the VAT component, and haLs requested that the VAT component be implemented immediately
following appraisal.



Page 12
L Compliance with IDA Policies
[ X]   This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
Task Manager: N     ha Beschorner
Sector Manager (Acting): Pieter Bottelier
5 0 1: +    >  <<6Xy    _u~~~~~~~~~~IN



Page 13                                                ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary              Key Performance Indicators /a               Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Indicator           Baseline January 98          Supervision               and Risks
CAS Objective                                                                                    (Objective to Bank Mission)
Macroeconomic        Govemment deficit below   1997: 8.9%               Budgetary statistics.    Macroeconomic stability
stabilization and    8% of GDP by 1999.                                                          promotes growth and con-
management                               _                                                       tributes to poverty reduction
Project Development                                                                              (Project to CAS)
Objectives
Improved Govemment * More efficient and fuller  * 31 percent            * Treasury statistics    New financial management
financial management.  transfer of revenues in                          * Govemment reporting    processes used to achieve
central treasury account                          system                 better budgetary outcomes;
* Budget units' monthly    * 64 percent of reports on                      lower deficits lead to lower
report on time           time                                            inflation.
* Budget units' report nore * 90 percent of reports no
accurate                 revision
More effective, nondis- * VAT share of revenues   * 16 percent (Sales Tax)    * Tax administration
tortive revenue mobili-  increased                                        information system
zation.              * percent of eligible     * 62 percent(Sales Tax)    * Semiannual reviews and
taxpayers registered                              progress reports
* percent of refund within   * no baseline
30 days
* Cost/Tugrik raised     * 0.11 Tugrik (Sales Tax)
Project Outputs                                                                                  (Outputs to Development
New Govemment        * Financial management   not applicable            * Project files: borrower    Objectives)
Financial Management   system fully operative in 9                       team, Supervision reports. * Political stability contin-
System                 ministries                                       * Semiannual review and    ues
progress reports       * Macroeconomic stability
Reformed tax structure  * VAT administration fully                                                 promotes growth and con-
and administration.    functioning.                                                                tributes to poverty reduc-
tion
* Good coordination of
project outputs with other
components of public
administration reforms
* Strong donor and inter-
agency coordination
* Adequate allocation of
Government counterpart
funds
Project Components                                                                               (Components to Outputs)
Advisory services    * Contract with advisors   not applicable          * Project files: borrower
signed                                            team, supervision and
* System specification                              borrower/ consultant
reviewed by Steering                              progress reports
Committee                                       * Audit reports.
Training, including  Training, tours completed
study tours
Equipment procurement * Request for bid issued
* Pilot run completed
* System accepted by
Steering Committee                                                                      _ _  _
/a Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact



Page 14                                 ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
Background. The Government has started a far-reaching civil service reform program, based on the
model of public administration developed in New Zealand in the period 1988-94. In September 1996 the
civil service was restructured into nine policy ministries and associated implementing and regulatory
agencies, to delineate responsibilities more clearly and improve accountability. The Government's
medium-term strategy is to adopt output-based budgeting, management and reporting, and to delegate
input decisions to state secretaries and chief executives, based on strategic plans of ministries and
agencies. The portfolio ministers will become purchasers of outputs of services from those ministries and
agencies. The Government's strategy is embedded in a draft "Public Sector Management and Finance
Act" (PSMFA), which spells out the new responsibilities and accountabilities of all public sector agencies
and actors, and has been presented to the Autumn Session of the Great Hural or Parliament.
The Need for Better Financial Management. Successful implementation of the public administration
reforms requires a sound government financial management system, consistent with the overall model
adopted. Critical components of this system are the systems that support budget and treasury
management. Strong budget management assists the government to manage its revenues and expenditures
to budget objectives and provides incentives to budget-holding entities to use resources efficiently and
within their legal authority. It will ensure that ministries and agencies face a hard budget constraint in
budget implementation-which is crucial not only for aggregate fiscal discipline, but also to enforce the
efficiency gains envisioned by the new mode of public administration.
The Current System. Currently, budget and treasury management is still based on the old Soviet system,
which disburses money from the central treasury to ministry accounts. Central Government entities have
a total of 120 bank accounts. Numerous extrabudgetary funds exist, and cash management is hardly
developed, and not effectively linked to debt management. Only 30 percent of government revenue is
paid into the central treasury account. Currently, agencies have an accounting system with accrual
elements, but reporting to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) is limited, cash-based and irregular. The system
does not allow for costing of products and activities.
A new government accounting and reporting system is required to measure the cost effectiveness of
agencies and ministries, and to establish accountability for results. Currently, agencies have an
accounting system with accrual elements, but reporting to MOF is limited, cash-based and irregular. The
system does not allow for costing of products and activities.
There is no integrated accounting software in place; in instances where software has been developed and
is in use, its functions and capabilities are limited. A separate Chart of Accounts based loosely on the
IMF's Government Financial System (GFS) is used for the annual budget. However, a separate chart is in
use in all budget entities including MOF. MOF and its aimag branches use a cash-based payments system
while other ministries, Ulaanbaatar and aimag budget units use an accrual based system. The
management reporting system includes a few computer-generated reports, but most reports are prepared
with Microsoft Excel. Domestic and external debt is managed on Excel software, separate from the
budget accounting system. While MOF, line ministries and agencies have a significant degree of



Page 15                                ANNEX2
computerization, most software is agency-specific. Most reporting is done through tables generated in
Excel. Each budget unit has at least one accountant, and usually some inhouse capacity for hard and
software maintenance.
The Project Component
Objectives. The overall objectives of the component are to increase efficiency and accountability of
Government. In the first stage, the project will finance advisory services and training in government
accounting, treasury debt and cash mnanagement, auditing, management skills and related disciplines. In
the second stage, based on a defined needs assessment, the project will assist in the implementation of an
improved core government financial management system.
Following the New Zealand model, the Government aims to implement a Government accounting and
budgetary system in which the ministries/spending units (Budgetary Bodies/BBs) are directly responsible
for making payments from their own expenditure accounts in commercial banks. Cash management will
be centralized, and each BB account will be emptied over night to a central treasury account. Government
considers using a commercial bank for this function of fiscal agent to the Government. The money from
the treasury account in the commercial bank would then be placed in the Central Bank. The fiscal agent
will make deposits of all government revenues received to the treasury single account in the fiscal agent
bank or Central Bank on a daily basis.
The aggregate system would provide for consolidation of agency budgets and reports. The envisioned
accounting system would allow for full accrual accounting and reporting at agency level. The system
would allow for costing of all outputs. It would cater to specific agencies' requirements. It could also
provide reports compatible with the IMF's GFS classification.
Specifically the financial management system would have the following capabilities:
Expenditure management:
e MOF advises budgetary bodies (BBs)-ministries and other government agencies-of their annual
budgets and any changes in aulthority during the fiscal year; BBs have authority to expend up to
appropriation in each appropriation class;
*  BBs authorize expenses within budget and record corresponding transactions on BB ledgers, verify
receipt of goods and services and authorize and make payments to suppliers;
*  BBs provide financial statements prepared in accordance with international accounting standards
(IAS), and supplemented by appropriations information to MOF on a monthly basis;
* MOF uses these reports to (a) produce consolidated monthly and annual financial statements for the
government and (b) monitor use of budget by BBs by comparing actual expenses with budget on a
year-to-date basis.
Cash management:
* BBs are authorized to operate their own bank accounts with commercial banks; however, MOF
authorizes the creation of these accounts;
* MOF authorizes cash advances to BB bank accounts during the year according to cash profiles
agreed by MOF at the beginning of each fiscal year, based on the forecast cash requirements of each



Page 16                                          ANNEX2
BB's budget; release of cash to BB accounts is subject to certification by MOF of proper exercise of
legal appropriation authority;
*   MOF also has the power to operate on BB bank accounts during the year in order to manage the
government's overall cash position in a centralized cash management system but in a manner that
does not interfere with the BB's normal management of the account; MOF can also pay interest on
deposits with it by the BBs as an incentive to efficient cash management;
*   The Bank of Mongolia (BOM), as the Government's banker, monitors balances in all government
bank accounts on a daily basis and reports them to MOF and executes the funding instructions of the
Ministry.
*   The fundamental relationships in the system are shown in Figure 1 of Annex 11.
Allocation of responsibilities
Responsibilities can be summarized as in the following table:
MOF               BOM and/or Commercial banks         Budgetary bodies
Funds allocation  Advise BBs of appropriation                                Allocate authority within
authority by appropriation class                           appropriation classes (annual)
(annual)
Monitor expenditure against
authority (monthly)
Verification                                                                  Verify receipt of goods and
services (daily)
Payment                                         Execute payment instructions by  Authorize and make payments
account holders (daily)      (daily)
Revenue receipts    Account for and bank government                           Receive revenue on own account
revenue receipts (daily)                                   and on behalf of government
(daily)
Accounting/financial Consolidate BB reports and  Report balances in all government Financial statements to MOF in
reporting         prepare government financial    bank accounts to MOF (daily)    accordance with IAS (monthly)
statement (monthly, annual)
Manage cash balances in all  Prepare financial statements for
govemment bank accounts as    Parliament (annual)
instructed by MOF (daily)
The system will then embody the following central responsibilities, which need to be taken into account
in the design of the budget and treasury management system:
Production of government financial statements: this requires BBs to account to MOF in sufficient detail
to enable the Ministry to produce the statements; this means that MOF will need to prescribe the
information it requires in enough detail at least to enable accounting against Parliamentary authority and
production of the government accounts to international accounting standards.
Specification of additional governmentfinancial classifications: for example, production of government-
wide accounts in GFS format, or presentation of supplementary information on personnel expenses or
other categories deemed important for overall government fiscal policy, may require additional
prescription of information required by MOF.
Establishment of bank accounts: BBs can open bank accounts only with the approval of MOF.



Page 17                                 ANNEX 2
Management of cash balances in bank accounts: MOF will have the authority to make advances to bank
accounts and invest surplus cash balances in these accounts; government bank accounts must not be in
overdraft; in other respects the account holders operate on the accounts in the normal way;
Control of government debt andfinnancial investments: MOF will have responsibility for management of
the overall debt and financial investments of the government.
External audit: The State Audit Board will be responsible for annual attest audits of the financial
statements of all BBs. Systems need to be designed to meet external audit requirements based on
international accounting standards.
MOF internal control: MOF will maintain its own internal control system to assure the reliability of both
its own financial management and the accounting and financial reporting systems in BBs on which it
depends for production of government financial statements. MOF has the power to require information
necessary to enable it to discharge its responsibilities under the PSFMA.
To achieve project objectives, the lproposed project would provide technical assistance and, at a later
stage, computer equipment, and software to assist the authorities to design, develop, test and implement
processes, procedures and systems, related regulations and training programs for auditing, treasury
operations, accounting and cash and debt management.
Technical Assistance needs may be summarized as follows:
Functional Aspects:
*  Developing methods to improve forecasting of expenditure requirements and cash management.
-  Developing the fiscal reporting system of budget execution and improving linkages between MOF
fiscal reports and MOF analysis.
-  Developing detailed functional specifications for budget execution, including requirements for
incorporating necessary expenditure control procedures.
*  Developing detailed functional specification for the aggregate government accounting system.
-  Developing detailed functional specifications for debt management operations and treasury systems.
* Developing selection criteria and method for banks that handle government money, including
compliance with prudential regulations, and required service standards.
*  Assessing training requirements for institutional development, including, assessment of the skill
levels of MOF, State Audit Board (SAB) and State Services Council (SSC) staff to operate and
manage a modern fiscal management system as well as necessary technical skills required for the
implementation and operation of the new budget system and treasury management system, and
designing and implementing a training, skills upgrading and recruitment program as may be
necessary.
Prospectively, the Project would finance training advisors and one or more treasury management
advisors.
Technical Aspects:
If a decision is taken to adopt a standardized centralized management information system, technical
assistance would be provided to develop technical assistance would be provided to develop the technical
design of the Government financial management system, implement the systems first at MOF and the
designated two pilot sites (the State Property Committee and the General Department of National



Page 18                                 ANNEX 2
Taxation) and after testing the system in this environment, replicate the new system across nine central
ministries for aggregate computer systems. This would include:
* Aggregate Computer Systems
* Determining user requirements and specifying the required system functionality
*  Preparing appropriate bidding documents
*  Selecting bids and supervising implementation
* Debt and Treasury Management System
*  Designing and implementing cash management procedures
*  Determining debt management user requirements and specifying system functionality
*  Preparing appropriate bidding documents
*  Selecting the tender and supervising implementation
*  Designing and implementing treasury management strategies
*  Preparing guidance materials for cash/debt/treasury management
*  Training MOF and agency staff in the cash/debt/treasury management systems.
Computer Hardware and Software
Subject to the recommendations of the Ministry of Finance, the project would finance
*  Hardware, Systems Software and Application Development Tools, DBMSs. Details of equipment to
be procured would be determined by MOF. The project would also provide some computer hardware
to supplement the hardware procured from Government's own resources, which is required for the
full implementation of the interim system. Equipment would include open system servers, work
stations, networks, printers, UPS, site preparation, systems software and application development
tools for central facilities at MOF, BB and selected Aimag treasury offices.
*  Application Sofjware. Guidelines would be developed for the procurement of applications software.
In general, software packages would be reviewed on the basis that: (a) they provide the required
functionality; (b) they can be supported locally, so that upgrades can be obtained and installed as they
become available; (c) customization assistance may be provided, and costs of customization clearly
identified; (d) they run on a range of hardware and operating software that is compliant with the
hardware/software guideline proposed for the public administration reforms; (e) adequate
documentation is available to enable package installation and use; and (f) potential licensing
arrangements can accommodate use at multiple sites.
* Miscellaneous. Office equipment and training facilities for MOF, as may be necessary.
Prospectively, the project would finance a consulting firm to assist Government in design, development,
and tendering of the hard and software.
Training
Training is a crucial element for project implementation. Training requirements for the project will be
determined by agencies and may include, subject to review:



Page 19                                  ANNEX2
* Training in principles, concepts and methodologies of the subject areas covered by the project,
namely, budget execution, management skills, accounting, cash management, debt management,
treasury operations, and audit.
* Senior-level orientation in the use of financial management information systems.
* End user training in the use of the computerized information systems to be set up under the project.
*  training in attest audit, and accounting systems for the State Audit Board.
* More general training related to the design and development of information systems.
*  The provision of end-user support to staff who will use the computer systems.
The Project would finance:
* Technical assistance for develolpment of an overall training strategy for training users for the
implementation of the Government financial management system countrywide; the design and
specification of inhouse training !facilities and/or identification of suitable training courses within the
country and abroad; the development/acquisition of training materials, technical documentation and
end-user manuals.
* Training courses to be arranged at site, or in local or foreign institutes to cover these areas. Staff to be
trained under the project would include technical staff of MOF who will be involved in the
development and implementation of the systems.
* Study assignments for Government officials in the budget execution, treasury, and accounting
operations areas to enable them to benefit from the experiences of other Governments in these areas.
This would include financing of courses, discussion trips on specific topics by experts from these
Governments or agencies to Mongolia.
* Developing guidance materials and providing training to senior managers in modern management
techniques.
* Developing training materials and delivering training and on-site advice to finance staff from
budgetary bodies.
B. VAT INTRODUCTION COMPONENT
Background. The Government has started a major tax reform that aims for lower taxes, lower marginal
tax rates, and a broader tax base. Mongolia has made considerable progress in tax policy and tax
administration since 1990. The framework for market-oriented taxes such as a personal income tax,
enterprise income tax, sales taxes and excise taxes was established in 1993, and revised in 1997. Customs
duties and a harmonized system were implemented in 1993; new customs tariffs and customs
administration laws became effective in 1996. Except for alcoholic spirits, import duties were abolished
in 1997. The General Department of State Taxation was established as a separate agency in 1992. Further
reforms are needed to enhance the neutrality of the existing system, in particular broadening of the tax
base and simplification of structures.
The mainstay of the next phase of reforms is the introduction of a Value Added Tax (VAT) down to the
wholesale and retail level. The VAT will build on the base of the current 10 percent sales tax-which
covers imports, manufacturing and limited service sectors-and will be extended to cover virtually all
goods and services (including capital goods), and a broad range of businesses, both legal entities and
individuals. The Government proposes to enact a VAT Law in January 1998, and implement the VAT by
July 1, 1998. Policy preparations are well advanced: while certain policy issues remain to be addressed,
the main provisions of the draft VAT law are consistent with a full-fledged VAT and the law includes all
the elements necessary for an appropriate legal structure to operate the tax.



Page 20                                 ANNEX 2
Key to the success of a VAT are: (a) a sound tax administration that can effectively administer the
increased transaction volume at low cost to the taxpayer; and (b) well-informed taxpayers that know how
to apply the new law. A better tax administration requires intensive training of tax administration
officials, design of new procedures, development of the audit function, reorganization of the tax
administration, and an information system that supports the new organization. Taxpayer awareness
requires an extensive information campaign.
The Project Component
Objective. The project would support the implementation of the VAT by improving the tax administration
and by informing taxpayers on the introduction of the VAT.
Project Activities. Under the project, the following activities are planned:
*  Legislation and taxpayer information:
*  Finalizing implementing regulations for VAT, including determining: appropriate sanctions
on various types of noncompliance.
  Formulating and implementing a publicity campaign, including consultations with industry,
the public, and parliamentarians, advertisement campaign, TV and newspaper interviews, etc.
*  Developing a detailed plan for the taxpayer information function
*  Formulating, printing, and distributing guideline materials, including a registration guide, a
general guide, and specific issues guides on exemption, deferral system, refund system, etc.
m Tax Administration Operations:
*  Formulating and implementing detailed plans for policy interpretation
-  Formulating and implementing detailed plans for taxpayer registration
-  Formulating and implementing detailed plans for tax accounting and reporting
-  Formulating and implementing detailed plans for tax audit
*  Formulating detailed regulations for tax refund; VAT on Imports;
*  Formulating and developing information exchange between tax administration and customs
- Training:
* Developing and implementing a detailed training plan
*  preimplementation study tours
*  implement training
Technical Assistance. Based on the recommendations of the borrower working group, and the IMF, the
component would finance the following:
a Advisory Services
*  Short-Term Taxpayer Services Advisor (1 month). This expert will assist GDNT's Taxpayer Services
Department in planning a VAT education camnpaign for taxpayers and in designing the various forms
and guides to be issued to taxpayers in conjunction with the introduction of the VAT. This
assignment should begin on March 15, 1998.
*  Short-Term Audit Advisor (1 month). This expert will focus on assisting GDNT to develop special
audit programs in the areas of refund control, cross-checking of invoices, and purchase verifications.
This assignment should begin on or about April 1, 1998.
*  Short-Term Computer Programming Advisor (I month). The main responsibilities of this assignment
will be to: modify the existing tax accounting systems to accommodate the introduction of a VAT;
and to continue the work of the previous IMF Computer Advisor in developing the user requirements
for a new tax accounting system. This assignment should begin on or about April 1, 1998.



Page 21                                ANNEX 2
*  A short-term Customs Advisor may be required. In this case, the assignment would begin on or about
April 15, 1998.
*  A long-term VAT Implementatilon Advisor (9 months) will be financed by a Japanese Grant,
administered by the IMF. In addition to assisting in the planning of VAT implementation, this advisor
will also provide training and assist in preparing manuals in various areas of VAT administration
including taxpayer education, auditing, and collection enforcement. The assignment will begin in
March 1998.
b. Study tours
*  Prior to VAT implementation: one visit of seven officials (4 GDNT, 1 MOF, 1 Customs,
1 interpreter) for one week to a country with a strong VAT administration to study the planning and
implementation of a VAT, and the operation of deferral and refund mechanisms. This visit should be
scheduled for May 1998.
*  After VAT implementation: one visit of six officials for one week to a country with a strong VAT
administration to study the operational procedures of a VAT, focusing on audit and collection
enforcement. This visit should be scheduled for October 1998.
c. Equipment
-  Desktop publishing, printing, and photocopying equipment (and consumable supplies) to be used at
GDNT headquarters for taxpayer education and staff training programs. The supplier of this
equipment would also provide short-term training in the use and maintenance of the equipment.
*  Equipment and supplies to support the establishment of taxpayer service centers in GDNT field
offices.
d. Public Awareness Campaign
X Preparation of materials for public dissemination.



Page 22                                ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Component                                                 Local    Foreign    Total
A. Governmentfinancial management                         0.45      4.04      4.49
A. 1 Advisory Services: Treasury, Government Accounting   0.05      0.64      0.69
A.2 Training and study tours in Government accounting, auditing,   0.15  0.80  0.95
management skills and related disciplines (in-country and
overseas)
A.3 Equipment and Software for Treasury and Debt Management    0.05  0.60     0.65
systems
A.4 Equipment and Software for Government Accounting System,   0.20  2.00     2.20
including IT advisory support and training in systems design
and recurrent costs (license fees, telecommunications,
operational expenses)
B. VATintroduction                                        0.055     0.50      0.55
B. 1 Short-Term Advisors:taxpayer services, audit, computer  0.02   0.25      0.27
programming
B.2 Study Tours                                           0.01      0.06      0.07
B.3 Equipment and Supplies                                0.015     0.14      0.15
B.4 Public Information Campaign                           0.01      0.05      0.06
Subtotal                                           0.50      4.54      5.04
Price and Cost Contingencies                              0.01      0.45      0.46
Total                                              0.51      4.99      5.50



Page 23                                        ANNEX 4
ANNEX 4: COST EIFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS SUMMARY
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Base Year: 1998                  Present Value of Flows                 Fiscal Impact
Project Costs                       Economic Analysis Financial Analysis/a     Taxes         Subsidies
a. Treasury                                n.a          Tug 3.4 billion         n.a.           n.a.
Tug 2.0 billion (US$2.5 million)
(Tug 3.3 including accounting)
b. Tax Administration                 Tug 21 billion    Tug 29 billion      Tug 29 billion
Tug 2.6 billion (US$3.2 includes additional (US$26 million)   (US$35 million)  (US$ 35 million)
investments to be made in hard and
software, which is not IDA financed)
/a If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by taxes and
subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The difference between financial and economic costs
arises from price controls on the inputs."
Main Assumptions: Eight-year life span of project outputs. Real Tugrik interest rates gradually falling to
10 percent a year. A 20 percent reduction of govermment deposits in noninterest-paying accounts
compared to 1996. Gross increase in tax revenue 1.2 percent of GDP; net increase (after elimination of
cascading) 0.7 percent of GDP.
The benefits of the treasury system are calculated as the NPV of the interest receipts Government will
accrue by switching deposits from noninterest current accounts in Banks to interest-bearing investments.
This switch is possible because of more efficient treasury management. Other nonmonetary benefits
include: better expenditure control and fiscal discipline, better information for policy decisions, increased
cost consciousness in the public sector.
The economic benefits of the tax administration are calculated as the amount of cascading taxes
eliminated by switching from sales tax to VAT. The financial benefits are calculated as the net increase in
tax revenues. Other nonmonetary benefits include: better taxpayer service; increased transparency of the
tax system; reduced burden of paying taxes; better tax enforcement.



Page 24                  ANNEX S
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
[Not Applicable]



Page 25                                 ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement (see Table A)
Consultants and Training Selection and appointment of consultants for technical assistance and support
of project implementation will be carried out in accordance with IDA's Guidelines on Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, of January 1997 and revised September 1997.
The implementing agencies-Ministry of Finance (MOF) and General Department of National Taxation
(GDNT)-will be responsible for procurement. MOF has prior experience of equipment procurement and
consultant selection; GDNT does not. IDA will familiarize GDNT with IDA procurement procedures.
For the Government Financial Management System Component, consulting firms will be retained to
provide training, and procurement will be made on the basis of quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS).
Advisory services for treasury management/government accounting, which are expected to be provided
by individuals, will be procured on the basis of quality-based selection (QBS). Under the VAT
Introduction Component, given the consistent involvement of the IMF in project preparation, and long-
standing provision of technical assistance to the Borrower in the field of tax reform, Fund staff would
assist GDNT in the selection of consultants and arrangement of study tours to ensure continuity of
approach. In this case, selection would be based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ). The total cost of
consulting services and training, to be financed by IDA, is $2.0 million. All consulting assignments above
$0.2 million must be advertised in Development Business.
Equipment Procurement of equipment will be made in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996 and September 1997. UJnder the Government Financial Management System Component,
procurement of computer hardware and software will be on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding-preferably under a single responsibility contract (total cost financed by IDA $2.2 million).
Equipment and software for the debt/treasury management system will be procured through limited
international bidding (LIB), given its specialized nature (total cost financed by IDA $0.65 million). Under
the VAT Introduction Component equipment and supplies (total cost financed by IDA $C.15 million)
estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $300,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Shopping. For National Shopping, the
Borrower would seek three quotations from at least three qualified suppliers.
Prior Review All contracts with consulting firms over US$100, 000 and with individuals over US$50, 000
will be subject to IDA's prior review and approval. All contracts for equipment valued at $50,000 and
above will be subject to prior review by IDA. Contracts for equipment not subject to prior review will be
audited on an ex-post basis, on the basis of standardized sampling ratios. In addition, IDA will review the
Borrower's evaluation of consultant proposals.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds is shown in Table B.
Disbursement of credit proceeds would be made against expenditure categories as shown in Table B.



Page 26                                          ANNEX 6
For goods and individual consultant contracts below $50,000 equivalent, consulting firms below
$100,000 and training, withdrawal applications will be supported by statements of expenditures (SOEs).
For goods and individual contracts above $50,000 and consulting firm contracts above $100,000
equivalent, withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation and signed contracts.
In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be established in a bank acceptable to IDA
and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The account would be established in US currency with an
authorized allocation of US$400,000 equivalent, with an initial withdrawal of US$200,000 and the
balance to be withdrawn when the amounts disbursed and committed total US$1.2 million equivalent.
The borrower would submit replenishment applications for the Special Account on a monthly basis or
when the account is drawn down by 30 percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
Replenishment of the Special Account would follow IDA procedures. The Special Account and the
Project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Retroactive
financing would be provided up to US$500,000 equivalent for eligible expenditures made after
February 4, 1998.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement method                      Total Cost including con-
Expenditure Category        ICB          NCB            Other            NIF        tingencies (IDA-financed)
1. Consultant Services       -             -            1.15             -                   1.15
(1.05) /a                            (1.05)
2. Training                  -              -           1.05             -                   1.05
(0.95) /b                           (0.95)
3. Equipment                2.40            -           0.90             -                   3.30
(2.20)                     (0.80) /c                            (3.00)
Total                     2.40           -           3.10             -                   5.50
(2.20)                     (2.80)                               (5.00)
/a $0.8 million quality-based selection; $0.25 million selection based on consultants' qualifications.
/b Consultant services for training: $0.95 million quality and cost-based selection.
/c $0.65m LIB; $0.1 Sm National Shopping.
Note: NIF = Not IDA-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust
funds, any reserved procurement, and other miscellaneous items). US$200,000 equivalent have been mobilized by the
Fund from an IMF-administered Japanese Trust Fund to finance the services of a long-term VAT advisor.



Page 27                                         ANNEX 6
Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(Including Training Consultancy)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services by                      Selection method                       Total Cost including con-
Expenditure Category    QCBS     QBS      SFB      LCS      CQ    Other   NIF  tingencies (IDA-financed)
A. Firms               1.05        -                 -        -       -       -            1.05
(training)            (0.95)                                                              (0.95)
B. Individuals         -          0.88      -        -       0.27    -        -            1.15
(0.80)                    (0.25)                        (1.05)
TOTAL          1.05       0.88     -        -        0.27    -        -            2.20
(0.95)    (0.80)                      (0.25)                       (2.00)
Note:   QCBS= Quality- and Cost-based Selection
QBS=   Quality-based Selection
SFB=   Selection under a fixed budget
LCS=   Least-cost selection
CQ=    Selection based on consultants' qualifications
Other=  Selection of individual consultants (per section V of Consultant Guidelines), commercial prLctices etc.
NIF = Not IDA-financed.
US$200,000 equivalent have been mobilized from an IMF-administered Japanese Trust Fund to finance the services of
a long-term VAT advisor.
Table B: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$ million                    Financing Percentage
Consultant Services                 0.945          100% of expenditures
Training                            0.855          100% of expenditures
Equipment and Software              2.700          100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory cost) and 85% of other local expenditures
Unallocated                         0.500
Total                       5.000



Page 28                                  ANNEX 7
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
Planned           Actual
(At final PCD stage)
A. Project Budget                                           124,000           124,000
B. Project Schedule                                         7 months          5 months
Time taken to prepare the project: 7 months
First Bank mission (identification)                         07/16/97          07/16/97
Appraisal mission departure                                 01/15/98          01/17/98
Negotiations                                                01/30/98          03/04/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                               09/30/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance, Public Administration Reform Project Management Group, General
Department of National Taxation
Name                                         Title
Natasha Beschorner, EACSM                        Operations Officer
Bert Hofman, EASPR                            Senior Economist
Al Kennefick, EAPCO                        Senior Accounting Advisor
Ali Hashim, ECSPE                 Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
G. Gansukh (MOF intern)                            Economist
William Allan (IMF-FAD)              Public Expenditure Management Specialist
John Brondolo (IMF-FAD)                           Tax Specialist
Silan Nadarajah (IMF consultant)            Government Accounting Advisor
Richard Fulford (consultant)                      VAT Specialist
Robert Laking (IMF consultant)          Public Expenditure Management Specialist
Peer reviewers:
Luis-Jose Mejia (LCSPR)              Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
David Shand (IMF)                 Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
Malcolm Holmes (PRDPS)               Senior Public Sector Management Specialist



Page 29                                  ANNEX 8
ANNEX 8: DOICUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
Mongolia: Implementing a VAT, IMF Fiscal Affairs Department, December 1997
Introduction of VAT: resume of main contents and policy recommendations for the draft of the law, MOF-
UNDP, December 1997
Tax Reform in Mongolia, IMF Fiscal Affairs Department, January 1997
Mongolia's Government Accounting System, IMF Fiscal Affairs Department, October 1997
Public Expenditure Management in Mongolia, IMF Fiscal Affairs Department, April 1997
Strategy for Government Reform in Mongolia Graham Scott, New Zealand ODA, 1997
VAT Law. Enacted January 8, 1998
Public Sector Management and Finance Act (draft}-Government of Mongolia
Public Sector Management and Finance Act (implementation schedule)-Government of Mongolia
Baseline data for performance indicators for Government Financial Management reform and VAT
introduction
*Including electronic files.



Page 30                                             ANNEX 9
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
A. IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio (as of January 31, 1998)
Amount in US$ million (less cancellations)
Loan/Credit Fiscal Year  Borrower          Purpose              Bank          IDA       Undisbursed  Closing Date
Credits
4 Credit(s) closed
26150       1994                   Transport Rehabilitation                   30.00        12.13       06/30/99
27600       1996                    Prot. of Vulnerable                       10.00         6.64       06/30/99
28540       1996                   Mongolia Coal Proj.                        35.00        15.45       12/31/01
29480       1997                   Bank,Ent,Leg,TA(BELT                        2.00         1.98       06/30/00
29730       1998                   Ulaanbaatar Serv.Imp                       16.70        16.63       06/30/02
Total Number of Credits = 5                                   0.00         93.70         52.83
Loans
0 Loan(s) closed                                                 0.00                        0.00
Total Number of Loans = 0                                     0.00                        0.00
Total                                               0.00        158.13
of which repaid                                     0.00          0
Total held by Bank & IDA                            0.00        158.13
Amount sold:                       0
of which repaid                    0
Total Undisbursed                                                              53.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC'S COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
(As of January 31, 1998, in US$ million)
Committed                            Disbursed
FY Approval           Company            Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic         Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997         SEF G&M Leather              1.45   0.30   0.00   0.00            1.05   0.20   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio              1.45   0.30   0.00   0.00            1.05   0.20   0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00



Page 31                                                       ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                East    Low-
Mongolia      Asia  Income        Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          2.5      1,726    3,229
GNP per capitb 1996 (USS)                               360        890      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                 0.9      1,542    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          2.1        1.3      1.7      GNP                               Gross
Labor force (%)                                         2.9        1.3      1.7      per          <                  primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               36
Urban populabon (% of total population)                  61         31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         65        68        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 55        40        69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               10
Access to safe water (% of population)                    ..        49       63
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      ..       17        34
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    84        117      105              Mongolia
Male                                                   82       120       112                Low-income group
Female                                                 87       116        98
KEY ECONONIIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                              ..      2.5        1.0      1.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    ..    56.4       26.4     22.4              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                ..    23.9       54.0     43.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       ..    25.6       28.0     24.5
Gross national savingslGDP                       ..    23.8       25.4     23.6
Current account balancelGDP                     ..   -32.2        -5.4    -10.2                     A ,            ns
Interest payments/GDP                            ..      ..        0.9      0.8      Savings                      lnsestment
Total debtGDP                                    ..     0.1       53.6     55.6
Total debt service/exports                      ..        ..       6.9      5.9
Present value of debtVGDP                        ..      ,.       34.4
Present value of debtVexports                   ..       ..       61.4                           Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                         Mongolia
GDP                                    ,.    -0.2       6.3        2.6      5.9                 Mongolia
GNP per capita                         ..    -2.4       6.9        0.0                          Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                            ..         ..      6.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      199)      1996      Growth rates of output and investmesit %)
(%/ of GDP)
Agriculture                                     ..    14.3        36.7     30.9      15
Industry                                        ..    36.2        35.1     35.4
Manufacturing                                  . .      ..                         10                              95   96
Services                                         ..    49.4       28.2     33.7
Private consumption                             ..    46.8        56.9     59.6    .30
General govemment consumption                   ..    27.6        15.1     15.9                      GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and services                    ..    54.7       52.4     41.4                -            -...GO.
1975.85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                     ..      2.5        5.8      4.7      200
Industry                                        ..    -1.3        14.8      0.1
Manufacturing                                  ..       ..        ..        ..
Services                                        ..    -0.4         0.8      3.5
Private consumption                             ..
General govemment consumption                    ..3
Gross domestic investment                        ..      ..         ..       ..    .10.
Imports of goods and services                                                                       E.p.rt.
Gross national product                          ..       ..         ..      2.0                    _
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 32                                                           ANNEX 10
Mongolia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                          Inflattion (%)
(% change)                                                                              300
Consumer prices                                                                                            ..15753.1  58.7  250-
Implicit GDP deflator                              ..     -1.4       42.5      21.0 20-
Government finance                                                                       s     /
(% of GDP)                                                                                o .                        I ,
Current revenue                                    ..    52.5        31.6      29.3              e1    92    93    94    55    95
Current budget balance                                     3.1        8.0       4.9               -      GDPdef.  --R-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..       ..       -6.4      -9.0
TRADE
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                           Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                                   486      423      5oo
Copper                                                              258       175      4W 
Meat3                                                                                  40
Manufactures                                                                            G
Total imports (cit)41                                                          35        20
Food                                                                                   2D 
Fuel and energy                                                                         0
Capital goods                                                                           s
Export price index (1987=100)                       .        ..        ..                     90   91   92   93   94   99   96
Import price index (1987=100)                      ..       ..         ..                              Exports        Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                          ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                           Curnent account balance to GDP rio (%)
Exports of goods and services             ,        ,       839        528      481 o
Imports of goods and services                            1,407        555      571           90   91   921  9    94   9S   95
Resource balance                                   .      -768        -27      -90                                E         L  l
Net income                                         ..      -45        -23      -15      -10
Net current transfers                              ..        0         -3        6
Current account balance, .
before official capital transfers                ..    -813         -52       -99
Financing items (net)                              ..     844          84       86
Changes in net reserves                            ..      .31        -32        13     s30
Memo:
Reserves inciuding gold (mill. US$)               ..        58        115       98
Conversion rate (locaLUSS)                         ..      3.7      448.6    548.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..       ..        512      541                         G
IBRD                                            ..        ..          0        0                        14     B
IDA                                              ..       ..         59       88               5F
78
Total debt service                                 ..       ..         37       29                                    C47
IBRD                                            ..                              0  0                     I
IDA                                              ..       ..          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 ..        0         74
Official creditors                              .,        ..        81                          \\
Prvate creditors                                ..        ..       -14         ..                                    110
Foreign direct investment                        ..       ..         10        ..                 E
Portfolio equity                                ..        ..          0        ..                204
World Bank program
Commitments                                     ..        ..         10       35       A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                   ..        ..          8       11       B- IDA    0 - OUter multilateral  F - PiWate
Principal repayments                            ..          ..                 0       C-IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                        ..        .          8       11    1
Interest payments                               ..        ..          0        0
Net transfers                                   ..        ..          8       10
Development Economics                                                                                                       8/28U97



Page 33                                 ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
PART I: CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK
Prepared by the Government of Mongolia with assistance of IDA and IMF
Introduction
1.    Sound public finances are essential for sustaining the gains of stabilization, and are the basis for a
leaner, more efficient public administration, which is the Government's objective. The Government has
started a far-reaching civil service reform program, based on the model of public administration
implemented in New Zealand in the period 1988-94. In September 1996 the civil service was restructured
into nine policy ministries and associated implementing and regulatory agencies, to delineate
responsibilities more clearly and improve accountability. The Government's current strategy is to adopt
output-based budgeting, management and reporting, and to delegate input decisions to state secretaries
and chief executives, based on strategic plans of ministries and agencies. The portfolio ministers will
become purchasers of outputs of services from those ministries and agencies.
2.     The Government's strategy is embedded in a draft "Public Sector Management and Finance Act"
(PSMFA), which spells out the new responsibilities and accountabilities of all public sector agencies and
actors, and has been presented to the Autumn Session of the Great Hural or Parliament. The Act is
currently expected to become law in April of this year.
3.     Successful implementation of the public administration reforms requires a sound Government
financial management system. Critical components of this system are the management and accountability
systems that support budget execution and treasury management.
4.     Strong budget management assists the Government to manage its revenues and expenditures to
budget objectives and provides incentives to budget-holding entities to use resources efficiently and
within their legal authority. It will ensure that ministries and agencies face a hard budget constraint in
budget implementation-which is crucial not only for aggregate fiscal discipline, but also to enforce the
efficiency gains envisioned by the new mode of public administration.
5.    Government treasury management includes the management of cash resources and public debt,
and borrowing and repayment of principal and interest charges. In many countries, Government treasury
management also includes the responsibility for the custodianship of state assets.1 Effective treasury
management should make Government cash resources more productive and the borrowing of funds less
expensive.
6.    The Government's implemerntation plan envisages progressive introduction of new management
and accountability systems in individual Ministries and agencies over a three-year period from 1998 to
2000.
1 Mongolia: Improving Public Management. By L. Garainfalvi, M.N. Woolley, G.C. Iyer and P. Saunders-page 26.



Page 34                                 ANNEX 11
Current Status
7.    Currently, budget execution and treasury management is still based on the old Soviet system,
which disburses money from the central treasury to ministry accounts without monitoring actual
expenditures. Numerous extra-budgetary funds exist. Cash management is hardly developed and not
effectively linked to debt management. Agencies have an accounting system with accrual elements, but
reporting to the Ministry of Finance is limited and irregular. The current system does not allow for
costing of products and activities.
8.    There is no integrated accounting software in place; in instances where software has been
developed and in use, its functions and capabilities are limited. One chart of accounts based loosely on
the IMF's Government Financial System (GFS) is used for the annual budget while a another chart is in
use in all budget entities including MOF. MOF and its aimag branches use a cash-based payments system
while other ministries, Ulaanbaatar and aimag budget units use an accrual based system. The
Management reporting system includes a few computer generated reports, but most of the reports are
prepared using Microsoft Excel. Fixed assets are not recorded, and external debt is also managed on
Excel software.
Component Objectives
9.    The overall objectives of the component are to increase efficiency and accountability of
Government through establishment of a core Government financial management system fully consistent
with a new mode of public administration based on outputs and accrual accounting for budgets and
reports. Specifically, this component will assist the Government to design and implement a central
Government financial management and accountability accounting system and a cash management system
that would serve as an effective instrument for budget execution and cash management.2
Policy Framework
10.   The PSMFA establishes the new policy framework for the public sector management system of
Mongolia. These reforms are being designed and implemented by the Mongolian Govermnent with
assistance from New Zealand public sector management consultants and funding from the World Bank
and a number of other international donors. Key components of the reform include:
1 ) the adoption of output-based budgeting, management and reporting by ministers, ministries, agencies
and Parliamentary bodies;
2) the adoption of accrual budgeting and accounting by ministries, agencies, Parliamentary bodies and
the Govermment as a whole;
3) the delegation of input management decisions to State secretaries and chief executives;
4) the preparation of strategic business plans by ministries, agencies and Parliamentary bodies for which
State secretaries and chief executives will be held accountable at the end of the year;
5) the integration of current and capital budgeting through the appropriation process in the form of
appropriations to Ministries and agencies for investments (on behalf of the state as well as on their
own behalf) as well as for expenses of producing outputs, transfer payments, etc.;
6) the preparation of Appropriation Estimates and annual reports by portfolio ministers; and
2   Because of the specific policy framework of the Mongolian reforms, described below, it also requires attention
to the linkages between accounting systems in individual budgetary bodies and the central Government
accounting system managed by MOF.



Page 35                                ANNEX 11
7) the preparation of forecast accrual financial statements and annual accrual financial statements for the
Government as a whole.
Basic Architecture of Proposed System
11.   The basic architecture of the proposed Government financial management system is as follows:
Expenditure management:
1) The Ministry of Finance (MOF) advises budgetary bodies (BBs)-ministries and other government
agencies-of their annual budgets and any changes in authority during the fiscal year; BBs have
authority to expend up to appropriation in each appropriation class;
2) BBs authorize expenses within budget and record corresponding transactions on BB ledgers, verify
receipt of goods and services ancl authorize and make payments to suppliers;
3) BBs provide financial statements prepared in accordance with international accounting standards
(IAS), and supplemented by appropriations information to MOF on a monthly basis;
4) MOF uses these reports to (a) produce consolidated monthly and annual financial statements for the
Government and (b) monitor use of budget by BBs by comparing actual expenses with budget on a
year-to-date basis.
Cash management:
1) BBs are authorized to operate their own bank accounts with commercial banks; however, MOF
authorizes the creation of these accounts;
2) MOF authorizes cash advances to BB bank accounts during the year according to cash profiles
agreed by MOF at the beginning of each fiscal year, based on the forecast cash requirements of each
BB's budget; release of cash to BB accounts is subject to certification by MOF of proper exercise of
legal appropriation authority;
3) MOF also has the power to operate on BB bank accounts during the year in order to manage the
Government's overall cash position in a centralized cash management system but in a manner which
does not interfere with the BB's normal management of the account; MOF can also pay interest on
deposits with it by the BBs as an incentive to efficient cash management;
4) The Bank of Mongolia (BOM), as the Government's banker, monitors balances in all Government
bank accounts on a daily basis and reports them to MOF and executes the funding instructions of the
Ministry.
The fundamental relationships in the system are shown in Figure 1.



Page 36                                          ANNEX 11
Figure 1: Systems Architecture
Monitoring,
Reports         Consolidation
Payment           Bank                                   Payment            Bank
instructions     statements                              instmctions       statements
Balance statements
b N~~~~~~~het funding _
Allocation of responsibilities
12.     Responsibilities can be summarized as in the following table:
MOF               BOM and/or commercial banks        Budgetary bodies
Funds allocation   Advise BBs of appropriation                                Allocate authority within
authority by appropriation class                          appropriation classes (annual)
(annual)
Monitor expenditure against
authority (monthly)
Verification                                                                  Verify receipt of goods and
services (daily)
Payment                                          Execute payment instructions by Authorize and make payments
account holders (daily)      (daily)
Revenue receipts    Account for and bank govern-                              Receive revenue on own account
ment revenue receipts (daily)                             and on behalf of Government
(daily)
Accounting/financial Consolidate BB reports and  Report balances in all govern-   Report to MOF financial
reporting          prepare government financial    ment bank accounts to MOF  statements in compliance with
statement (monthly, annual)    (daily)                    IAS.
Manage cash balances in all  Prepare financial statements for
government bank accounts as    Parliament (annual)
instructed by MOF (daily)



Page 37                                ANNEX 11
13.   The system will then embody the following central responsibilities, which need to be taken into
account in the design of the budget and treasury management system:
1) Production of Governmentfinancial statements: this requires BBs to account to MOF in sufficient
detail to enable the Ministry to produce the statements; this means that MOF will need to prescribe
the information it requires in enough detail at least to enable accounting against Parliamentary
authority and production of the Government accounts to international accounting standards.
2) Specification of additional Government financial classifications: for example, production of
Government-wide accounts in GFS format, or presentation of supplementary information on
personnel expenses or other categories deemed important for overall Government fiscal policy, may
require additional prescription of information required by MOF.
3) Establishment of bank accounts: BBs can open bank accounts only with the approval of MOF.
4) Management of cash balances in bank accounts: MOF will have the authority to make advances to
bank accounts and invest surplus cash balances in these accounts; Government bank accounts must
not be in overdraft; in other respects the account holders operate on the accounts in the normal way;
5) Control of Government debt andfinancial investments: MOF will have responsibility for management
of the overall debt and financial investments of the Government.
6) External audit: The State Audit Board will be responsible for annual attest audits of the financial
statements of all BBs. Systems need to be designed to meet external audit requirements based on
international accounting standards.
7) MOF internal control: MOF will maintain its own internal control system to assure the reliability of
both its own financial management and the accounting and financial reporting systems in BBs on
which it depends for production of Government financial statements. MOF has the power to require
information necessary to enable it to discharge its responsibilities under the PSFMA.
Specific Implementation Requireiments
14.   The following specific actions would need to be taken to enable the implementation of an
improved Govermment financial management system consistent with these reform objectives:
1) Enactment of the PSMFA to provide the legal basis for MOF management of the budget execution
and financial reporting system and a centralized cash management system;
2) The development of a new accounting classification which will meet the MOF's and the
Government's requirements for reporting on execution of budget; production of the Government's
financial statements to international accounting standards; and other financial and economic
information (such as the GFS classification of public finance) necessary for financial and economic
management;
3) Development and implementation of an accounting system in the MOF which will: (a) support these
new budget and reporting, standards; (b) enable consolidation of individual budgetary body reports;
(c) support monitoring of revenues and expenses against budget heads;
4) Progressive development and implementation of accounting, systems in budgetary bodies which will
similarly support new budgeting and accounting standards and requirements for external reporting
and monitoring of year-to-date progress, the specifications of which will be reviewed and developed
later;
5) Development of a centralized cash management system enabling monitoring and effective daily
management of aggregate Government cash balances;
6) Development of an associated debt and investments management system;
7) Development of effective external audit and internal control systems (both in the MOF and in BBs).
8) Development of general manager appointment, employment and appraisal processes.



Page 38                                 ANNEX 11
Risk Management
15.   Critical risks associated with the implementation of the overall public sector reform program are:
(a) lack of a widespread understanding of the concepts, requirements and implications of the reforms; (b)
failure to support the legislative framework in a comprehensive and consistent manner; (c) inadequate
capacity of current State secretaries, agency chief executives, and other senior civil servants; (d)
inadequate capacity in the system supporting entities (Ministry of Finance, Government Service Council,
State Audit Board); (e) poor sequencing of the various elements of the reforms; (f) an implementation
timetable that allows insufficient time for adequate systems development or capability building in
ministries, agencies and Parliamentary bodies; and (g) an implementation strategy that is too slow and
creates insufficient pressure to progress the reforms.
16.   These general implementation risks will be addressed by: (a) the development of an explicit
communication strategy and campaign to explain the philosophy and requirements of the Public Sector
Management and Finance Act to key parties before and during the discussions in Parliament and to get
their commitment to the reforms; (b) active ministerial involvement; (c) early implementation of the
limited term employment contracts and performance agreement processes for State secretaries and chief
executives, allowing appropriate rewards and sanctions, including personnel changes if necessary, to
encourage rapid and high quality; (d) a staged implementation approach that initially focuses on selected
pilot agencies and the system supporting entities and then rolls-out implementation in a carefully
sequenced and staged manner; and (e) an implementation timetable that is ambitious but uses well-
designed implementation phases to allow capability building to occur.
17.   Specific risks related to the development of budget execution and treasury management systems
include the following.
I) Links to development of budget planning: this project concentrates on the budget execution phase,
but clearly some of the systems required also need to support the entry of information related to
budget planning;
2) Securing effective control over Government cash: specifically, the Government needs to ensure that it
receives all Government revenues into a central account, releases cash to BB accounts according to
agreed cash profiles and can monitor balances in Government accounts daily for aggregate cash
management purposes;
3) Developing effective external audit and internal control systems: a decentralized financial
management system such as is being introduced in Mongolia critically depends on timely and reliable
financial information and effective control on the proper use of public funds; support for the
development of good control systems is an important component of the project;
4) Effective interim reporting and cash management arrangements: because the program of
implementation will take three to four years to complete, the Government needs to maintain and
improve existing reporting and cash management systems; this issue is being addressed in discussions
with the IMF on an interim treasury management system;
5) Donor coordination: the Government needs to ensure that the various donor agencies assisting with
implementation are properly coordinating their assistance activities: this includes bilateral assistance
(such as being provided by the German State Audit Court to the State Audit Board) as well as
multilateral;
6) Effective participation in the project by all agencies which are key to its implementation: the
Government will need to ensure that at both the steering level and the working group level, all the
relevant implementation interests are properly represented; key units include MOF budget and
treasury staff, BOM (a close working relationship and clear service agreement between MOF and



Page 39                                ANNEX 11
BOM is critical to successful 1reasury management); the State Audit Board and State Services
Council; the pilot agencies; and probably a selection of senior officials who will be charged with
implementation in other budgetary bodies in the second phase of implementation.
18.   Continued Government commitment to strengthening the basic economic management
institutions is a prerequisite for successful project implementation. Implementation of the fiscal reform
package would need Government support at the highest levels, who do recognize the need for change, to
ensure that the change process is comipleted smoothly.
Items to be Financed
19.   To support the overall policy objectives listed in the policy framework and achieve the specific
implementation requirements set out above, the proposed project would provide technical assistance,
related regulations and training programs for budget execution, both in MOF and in budgetary bodies,
and treasury management in MOF and, in the second stage, computer equipment and software to assist
the authorities to design, develop, test and implement processes, procedures and systems.
TechnicalAssistance
20.   The IMF has been providing some technical assistance to MOF in the development of a new
budget classification structure, a chart of accounts and the functional specifications for fully functioning
budget management and treasury systems. The IMF would continue to be involved in advising MOF, if
requested to do so, on the substantive aspects of the budget execution, cash management and treasury
operations.
21.   The project would supplement this technical assistance in the functional and technical areas as
well as for project implementation as described below:
Functional Aspects:
1 ) Treasury cash and debt management
a) Developmenm of debt and investment management systems
b) Debt management procedures and processes
c) Establishment of centralized cash management system
d) Development of cash forecasting methods
2) Budget execution
a) Develop accounting systems for MOF (whole of Government) and budget bodies
b) Develop the legal regulatory and operational framework and develop detailed guidelines,
procedures, regulations, forrns and operating manuals for budget execution processes.
c) Develop methods to improve forecasting of expenditure requirements and cash management
d) Develop budget body performance reporting and monitoring processes
e) Development of external audit and internal control processes
3) Institutional development
a) Assess training requirements for institutional development, including assessment of the skill
levels of MOF staff to operate and manage new systems as well as necessary technical skills
required for the implementation and operation of the new treasury system,
b) develop and implement a training, skills upgrading and recruitment program  as may be
necessary, and
c) develop the audit capacity of the State Audit Board.



Page 40                                ANNEX 11
Technical Aspects:
22.   If a decision is taken to adopt a standardized centralized management information system,
technical assistance would be provided to develop the technical design of accounting systems and
implement the systems first at a designated set of pilot sites-the central MOF system and selected
agencies-and, after testing the system in this environment, support further phases of the progressive
introduction of the system throughout central Government. This would include:
1 ) Researching and identifying candidate application software and determining customization
requirements-if appropriate and expedient.
2) Specifying the hardware and software requirements and prepare bidding documents in accordance
with IDA Procurement Guidelines.
3) Supervising implementation of systems including:
a) Technical project coordination and systems integration;
b) Procurement of hardware and software;
c) Installation and testing of hardware and software;
d) Development (if required) of application software.
e) Developing operational guidelines, security and disaster recovery procedures
f) Developing procedures and check list for replicating systems at subsequent sites.
4) Developing a plan for upgrading the informatics capability of MOF to enable it to carry out the
design, implementation, operation and maintenance of the above systems; including:
a) Specifying an organization structure and skills requirements for this facility
b) Developing a training strategy and plans for the implementation of the systems countrywide
c) Developing end user manuals and training materials and documentation
d) Training end users at pilot sites
e) Designing and specifying systems training facilities for MOF
Computer Hardware and Software
23.   Subject to the recommendations of MOF, the project would finance
a Hardware and Systems Software
Equipment. Details of equipment to be procured would be determined by MOF. As mentioned
above, the project would also provide some computer hardware to supplement the hardware
procured from Government's own resources, that is required for the full implementation of the
interim system.
* Application Software
Guidelines would be developed for the procurement of applications software. In general,
Software packages would be reviewed on the basis that: (a) they provide the required
functionality; (b) they can be supported locally, so that upgrades can be obtained and installed as
they become available; (c) customization assistance may be provided, and costs of customization
clearly identified; (d) they run on a range of hardware and operating software which is compliant
with the hardware/software guideline proposed for the public administration reforms; (e)
adequate documentation is available to enable package installation and use; and (f) potential
licensing arrangements can accommodate use at multiple sites.



Page 41                                ANNEX 11
* Miscellaneous
Office equipment and training facilities for MOF, as may be necessary.
Training
24.   Training is recognized to be a crucial element for project implementation. Training requirements
for the project can be divided into several areas:
1) Training in principles, concepts and methodologies of the subject areas covered by the project,
namely, budget execution, cash management and treasury operations.
2) Senior-level management training and orientation in modem management practices.
3) End-user training in the use of the computerized information systems to be set up under the project.
4) Technical training in the use of the specific tools to be employed for developing and implementing
the infornation systems under the project.
5) More general training related to the design and development of information systems.
6) Provision of end-user support to staff who will use the systems.
7) Training in attest auditing
25.   The project would provide financing for:
1) Technical assistance for development of an overall training strategy for training users for the
implementation of the systems countrywide; the design and specification of inhouse training facilities
andlor identification of suitable training courses within the country and abroad; the development and
acquisition of training materials, technical documentation and end user manuals.
2) Training courses to be arranged at site, or in local or foreign institutes to cover these areas. Staff to be
trained under the project would include MOF staff who will be involved in the development and
implementation of the systems.
3) Study assignments for Government officials in the budget execution and treasury operations areas to
enable them to benefit from the experiences of other Governments in these areas. This would include
financing of courses, discussion visits on specific topics by experts from these Governments or
agencies to Mongolia.
Training and study would be concentrated on experience with systems of public administration with
features similar to those in New Zealand or with private-sector accounting and auditing.



Page 42                                 ANNEX 11
Part II: IMPLEMENTATION FRAMEWORK; SCHEDULE; PROCUREMENT PLAN AND
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Prepared by the Public Administration Reform Management Group, Ministry of Finance
As part of its public administration reform program the Government of Mongolia has requested assistance
from IDA to:
*  establish cash/debt/treasury management systems within the Ministry of Finance and for budgetary
bodies,
* develop the management skills of senior managers in budgetary bodies and local government,
* develop the accounting skills of finance staff in budgetary bodies and local government,
*  develop a central accounting and budgeting system within the Ministry of Finance, and
*  Develop the audit skills of the State Audit Board.
These projects are prioritized as follows:
*  Cash/Debt/Treasury Management
*  Management Development Program
*  Accounting Training
*  State Audit Board capacity-building
*  Ministry of Finance Accounting and Budgeting Systems
1. Cash/Treasury/Debt management
INTRODUCTION
These systems and functions can be established in isolation from the management and accounting aspects
of the wider reform program thus enabling early implementation. The broad objectives of this project are
to:
* enable the Government of Mongolia to meet its ESAF conditions
*  improve control over cash flows and balances
*  improve cash management and forecasting through the design and implementation of an incentive-
driven cash management system, and
* lower the Government's cost of capital by improving the matching of cash requirements with
investing and financing operations.
The project has the following aspects:
*  develop guidance material for, and provide training to, the Ministry of Finance and budgetary bodies
*  develop and implement banking arrangements and procedures
*  develop and implement cash management systems and incentive arrangements
*  develop debt and investrnent management systems and procedures, and
*  develop a treasury management strategy.
These project elements are elaborated below.
PROJECT STRUCTURE
As this project will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, a working group should be
established with support from an advisor familiar with the incentivized cash management systems and



Page 43                                         ANNEX 11
banking arrangements required by the PSMFA. Bank of Mongolia officials and representatives of
budgetary bodies should also be included in the working group.
Under TA No. 2868-MON, the ADB3 will provide interim funding (2.0 person-months) for a treasury/
cash/debt management advisor for two months. In this period, a capability and needs assessment will
enable the working group, with the support of the advisor, to specify this project in more detail.
PROJECT STAGES AND TIMING
The timing of this project is driven partially by the overall project implementation strategy and is
contingent on the approval of the PSMFA by the State Great Hural. Notwithstanding the draft nature of
the implementation strategy, the following indicative timetable is proposed for the project:
Establish working group                                                        Mar 1998*
Prepare terms of reference for working group                                   Apr 1998*
Terms of reference signed-off by SS for Finance and Steering Group             Apr 1998*
Preliminary overall status assessment                                         May 1998*
Study tour                                                                     Jul 1998
Banking Arrangements      By          Cash Management         By            Debt/Treasury          By
Status assessment*            May  Status assessment*             May  Status assessment*             May
Detailed planning and design*    May  Detailed planning and design*    May  Detailed planning and design*    May
Guidance instructions prepared for Jun   Guidance instructions prepared for Jun   Computer requirements defined*  Jun
BBs and BOM*                        BBs and BOM*
Regulations prepared for banking Jun   Regulations prepared for CM*    Jun   Treasury management strategy,   Jul
arrangements*                                                           policies and processes defined
Banking policy determined*    Jun   Report prepared for sign-off*  Jun   Organizational structure defined  Jul
Report prepared for sign-off*  Jun   Sign-off by SS, PARPMG, SG*   Jul   Report prepared for sign-off  Aug
Sign-off by SS, PARPMG, SG*   Jul   Seminar for Budgetary Bodies    Aug  Sign-off by SS, PARPMG, SG    Aug
State receipts, payments and  Sep   Draft CM profiles prepared by    Sep   Computer systems procured  Dec
balances identified (Article 8)     BBs
Bank accounts established     Sep   CM profiles reviewed and signed- Oct  Systems and processes       Mar
off by working group               implemented
Flows redirected into approved    Oct  CM system cutover          Oct  System cutover                 May
bank accounts
Report prepared for sign-off  Oct  Report prepared for sign-off   Oct  Report prepared for sign-off   May
Sign-off by SS, PARPMG, SG    Nov  Sign-off by SS, PARPMG, SG    Nov  Sign-off by SS, PARPMG, SG    Jun
* Expected to be completed under ADB TA for advisor.
TERMS OF REFERENCE CASH/DEBT/TREASURY MANAGEMENT ADVISOR
A.      General
To assist in the development of a cash management system and a modem debt management capability
within the Ministry of Finance.
B.      Specific
a)  To assist the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Mongolia to design a cash management system in
accordance with the requirements of the Public Sector Management and Finance Act.



Page 44                                ANNEX 11
b) To assist the project team and the Ministry of Finance to develop guidance material for budgetary
bodies on the cash management system.
c) To assist the Ministry of Finance to design a modern treasury management and debt management
function.
d) To train Ministry of Finance staff in treasury management and debt management techniques.
e) To assist the Ministry of Finance to acquire and operationalize appropriate debt and treasury
management software and associated hardware.
f) To train Ministry of Finance staff in the use of the debt and treasury management systems.
C.    Outputs
a) Cash management system established.
b) Guidance material on the operation of the cash management system prepared.
c) Debt management function established.
d) Ministry of Finance staff trained in debt management techniques.
2. Accounting Training Program
INTRODUCTION
It is essential that finance staff in budgetary bodies and local government are comfortable with
International Accounting Standards, modern accounting and budgeting practices, and internal control
principles. Consequently, an extensive training program must be developed and delivered to these staff.
The objectives of this training program are to:
* provide finance staff in budgetary bodies and local government with an overview of the new public
administration system, particularly as it relates to the budgeting and reporting process
*  provide finance staff with suitable guidance material for reference and study purposes
* familiarize finance staff with International Accounting Standards and modern accounting and
budgeting practices
* familiarize finance staff with internal control principles
*  provide training in specific accounting processes and budgetary concepts and techniques, and
*  enhance the financial analysis capabilities of finance staff.
We propose that the training program be delivered through:
*  a self-instruction program
* a series of five-day workshops, and
*  specific on-site training and assistance.
These aspects are discussed in turn.
SELF-INSTRUCTION PROGRAM
This aspect of the training program will require finance staff to undertake a course of training covering:
* the overall framework of the new public administration system
* the operational requirements of the new public administration system



Page 45                                ANNEX 11
* financial accounting concepts and techniques
* management accounting concepts and techniques
* International Accounting Standarcds and their application to reporting by government entities
* basic auditing concepts, and
* budgeting and costing methods.
Finance staff will be provided with reference material (in Mongolian) and self-study course workbooks.
At the conclusion of the training program, finance staff will be required to sit an examination on the
contents of the training. The usual arrangemhents will be put in place to ensure that due process is
followed in setting and grading examinations.
WORKSHOPS
This aspect of the training program will replicate the modules in the self-instruction program but will be
delivered in a lecture/workshop format. We estimate that 50 five-day workshops will be required for the
three years to September, 2000.
ON-SITE TRAINING
The final aspect of the training program will involve the provision of on-site training to finance staff
(consulting-type advice). We estimate that three ten-day visits for each entity will be required as follows:
-  Visit 1 (10 days): preliminary visit covering preparation for the study program and preparation for
implementing the requirements of the reforms.
*  Visit 2 (10 days): assistance to resolve technical and procedural issues.
*  Visit 3 (10 days)3 assistance to resolve technical and procedural issues.
DELrVERY OF THE TRAINNG PROGRAM
There are two broad options. The first option would be to contract an International Accounting firm to
develop and deliver the program. The second option would be to encourage Mongolian accounting
academics to tender for the project with some support from members of the project team. We believe that
option two is superior because:
* it would strengthen the Mongolian accounting profession; and
* it is much cheaper than the alternative (by about US$4 million).
Our estimates are based on option two.
PROGRAM TIMING
The timing of development and delivery of the accounting training program is driven by the overall
project implementation strategy which cannot be finalized until the legislation is approved the State Great
Hural. Notwithstanding the draft nature of the implementation strategy, the following timetable is
proposed for development and delivery of the training program:
*  program details finalized and signed-off                                    May 1998
*  tender applications called                                                  May 1998
*  delivery consortium selected                                                July 1998
*  training program and materials prepared and signed-off                   October 1998



Page 46                                 ANNEX 11
*  effectiveness of training program reviewed (batch 1 experience}-program adjusted
accordingly                                                                March 1998
Expected delivery of training program (by batch)
1           2            3            4
Workbooks distributed                  Nov 98       Nov 98       May 99       Nov 99
Seminar 1                              Nov 98       Nov98        May 99       Nov 99
Seminar 2                               Jan 99       Jan 99       Jul 99       Jan 00
Seminar 3                               Feb 99       Feb 99      Aug 99       Feb 00
Examination                             Mar 99      Mar 99        Oct 99      Mar 00
On-site visit 1                         Dec 98      Dec 98       Mar 00       Dec 99
On-site visit 2                        May 99       May 99       Nov 00       May 00
On-site visit 3                        Aug 99       Aug 99       Feb 00       Aug 00
3. Management Development Program (proposed)
INTRODUCTION
Managers of budgetary bodies and in local government must develop modem management skills if they
are to be effective in the new system of public administration, with its emphasis on management
responsibility,. A program designed to provide senior managers with these skills must developed and
delivered to these managers.
Management skills can be developed:
* in the short-term through a development program designed to equip senior managers with the specific
skills which they will need to have be effective managers in the new system, and
*  in the long-term through more formal (academic) training.
The program discussed in this note is designed to equip managers with the skills which they will require
in the short term. The objectives of the program are to:
*  assist senior managers to discover the expectations, responsibilities, incentives and authority which
the new public administration system requires
*  provide a forum for senior managers to interact and discuss issues, thereby creating common
understanding and support for the reforms and a support network of senior civil service managers
*  assist senior managers to plan implementation of the new system within their organizations, and
*  provide training on specialized areas (such as financial management or human resources
management)
The new system of public administration charges senior managers with wide authority and commensurate
accountability. A major culture managerial culture change will result. The management development
provides an early opportunity to convey this cultural message i.e., "it's up to you-you will be given the
authority but we expect results." A structured and prescriptive training program (cf. the accounting
training program) would not convey the nature of the culture change and would run the danger of creating
dependence on central bodies.



Page 47                                ANNEX 11
The ultimate output for the senior managers of a budgetary body would a report to the PARP group, SSC
and Steering Committee for sign-off outlining detailing their implementation strategy and plan for their
entity. This would provide the Steering Committee with assurance that the entity was ready to move
along the implementation path.
The management development program should ideally be driven by the senior managers themselves
within broad parameters. We propose that the management development program have the following
structure:
*  a two-day seminar launching the program
*  a series of working groups focusing on various aspects of the reforms and management skills
(supported by a series of lectures, the topics of which to be determined by the senior managers), and
*  a series of lectures covering specific aspects of management in the context of the management
refonns.
These aspects are discussed in turn below.
PROGRAM LAUNCH SEMINAR
The program launch will set the tone for the remainder of the program and the reforms themselves. The
objectives of the opening seminar are to:
- communicate the government's commitment to the reforms
  communicate the government's expectations of senior managers
- provide an overview of the expected impact of the reforms on budgetary bodies and local government
entities
*  propose, discuss and agree the structure of the management development program
A tentative agenda for the program launch seminar might be:
*  Why are we doing this and what do expect of you?                 Prime Minister
An overview of the reforms and what they mean for senior managers  Minister of Finance
*  Performance contracting (Minister-State Secretary)
*  Role of the central agencies (MOF, SSC, SAB)
*  Employment powers, arrangements and structures
*  Financial management and budgeting
*  Organizational structures
*  Implementation strategy and timing
*  Overview of proposed management development program
*  Discussion groups-what does this mean for us?
*  Discussion group feedback
*  Wrap-up: the process from here
FOCUSED WORKING GROUPS WITH SPECIALIST ADVICE WHERE NECESSARY
Meeting facilities would be made available to the senior managers each week to meet and discuss
implications of the reforms, how it would affect them, and how they would manage this process.
On request of the senior managers, specialists would be provided to facilitate sessions or deliver lectures.



Page 48                                ANNEX 11
TARGETED LECTURE SERIES
To ensure that all important specialist areas are covered in the development program, a targeted lecture
series will be delivered covering a variety of subjects including:
*  Performance contracting (Minister-State Secretary)
*  Role of the central agencies (MOF, SSC, SAB)
*  Employment powers, arrangements and structures
*  Financial management and budgeting
*  Organizational structures
*  Output specification
PROGRAM TIMING
The timing of development and delivery of the management development program is driven by the
overall project implementation strategy which cannot be finalized until the legislation is approved the
State Great Hural. Notwithstanding the draft nature of the implementation strategy, the following
timetable is proposed for the management development program:
*  Detailed planning for Management Development plan completed              March 1998
*  opening seminar details and format agreed and signed-off                 March 1998
*  launch seminar conducted                                                 August 1998
*  Discussion groups and lecture series                        August 1998 - March 2000
4. Government Accounting and Budgeting Systems
Accounting and budgeting system requirements can be viewed at two levels:
* Budgetary Bodies-The ability to turn data inputs (e.g., timesheets, payments) into information for
management and external reporting purposes, and
* Aggregate (Ministry of Finance)-The ability to collect, review, analyze and consolidate the financial
and nonfinancial data of budgetary bodies and to report (ideally weekly) changes in the projected
fiscal position.
BUDGETARY BODIES AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT
The accounting and budgeting systems requirements of budgetary bodies will have two distinct phases:
* Phase I (transitional)-budgetary bodies and local government entities currently report accrual
information from existing systems (a mixture of computerized, spreadsheet and manual). The move
to reporting and budgeting in accordance with IAS will require their reports to be reformatted,
depreciation policies to be defined and depreciation to be calculated and asset revaluation policies to
be defined. These changes are relatively minor and will not drive the adoption of specialist
accounting software. The move to output-based budgeting will require cost allocation policies to be
defined and procedures to be implemented. In the short run, the cost allocation process can be
conducted adequately on custom-built spreadsheets if their existing systems do not have the
appropriate costing functionality.
* Phase 2 (ongoing systems)-Once budgetary bodies and local government entities have familiarized
themselves with the new system of public administration (particularly the management information



Page 49                                ANNEX 11
requirements driven by the system incentives), they will be much better to determine their system
requirements. At this stage (approximately two years after moving to the new system of public
administration) two options are available to support the acquisition and implementation of
management information systems should they be required:
* standardized software and hardware platforms selected by a working group and implemented
by those entities who opt to take up the package, or
*  system requirements defined and procured on an individual entity basis.
Given that each option has merits, we propose that:
* a working group be established to review the options for procurement,
* a decision be taken by the Steerinag Group on the most appropriate option, and
* procurement procedures be established appropriate to the option chosen.
AGGREGATE BUDGETING AND REPORTING
The PSMFA requires that whole-ot-government budgets and financial statements be consolidated and
prepared in accordance with IAS. The PSMFA also requires that portfolio reports and a Fiscal
Framework Statement to be prepared at certain times. In order to deliver on these requirements, the
Ministry of Finance must:
* design and implement a strategically-driven budget process
*  develop the capacity to collect ;and consolidate the information necessary to prepare the documents
required by the PSMFA
*  develop the capacity to analyze the information provided by budgetary bodies, and
* develop a macro and fiscal forecasting capacity (particularly for taxation revenues)-the
development of these capacities is discussed as another project.
As the design and planning of the strategic budget process will be supported under the upcoming ADB
technical assistance, this project only covers bullet points two and three.
To deliver the capability necessary, the Ministry of Finance must develop a system for:
* collecting the financial information to be provided from budgetary bodies
*  checking that the financial information provided is "clean" (e.g., the balance sheet balances, the cash
flow statement articulates to the other financial statements, appropriation inforrnation articulates to
the core financial statements, etc.)
* analyzing the financial informnation provided by budgetary bodies, and
* consolidating the financial information provided by budgetary bodies.
Much of this capability could be delivered if a standardized, centralized accounting and budgeting system
were established (see above) however, even if such a system were chosen and implemented, it would be
unlikely that it would be operational in less than three years. Consequently there are three broad options
available to the Ministry of Finance to provide an interim (and possible permanent) solution:
1. collect financial information from budgetary bodies via spreadsheets or in hardcopy and consolidate
it at the Ministry of Finance using spreadsheets
2. collect financial information fiom budgetary bodies via spreadsheets or in hardcopy and check it,
analyze it, and consolidate it at the Ministry of Finance using a cut-down consolidation package, or



Page 50                                ANNEX 11
3. collect, check, analyze and consolidate financial information from budgetary bodies via a distributed
consolidation system.
Option 1, while workable, would be unwieldy and prone to errors.
Option 3, as a short-term option, would be expensive if a centralized, standardized accounting system
were selected.
Option 2, provides a workable, short-term, reasonably-priced solution with provision for later expansion.
PROJECT TIMING
Ministry of Finance specification prepared                                    June 1998
Tender released (MOF)                                                         July 1998
Tender selected (MOF)                                                      October 1998
Implementation begins                                                      January 1999
System live                                                                   June 1999
Working group established to review approach for budgetary bodies             July 1999
Working group report                                                        August 1999
Systems procurement and installation for budgetary bodies  September 1999 - September 2001



Page 51                                           ANNEX 11
B. VAT INTRODUCTION
VAT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN in 1998
Approved by Decree (No. 366, in 1997) of Minister of Finance, Mongolia
(Prepared by the General Department of National Taxation)
Func-                             Events                                   Dates               Function
tion
1. Legislation and Public Acceptance
I     Initiate draft of VAT law                                      October 15, 97    Responsibility: MOF
2      Consult Ministries and Government Agencies on Law              October 20, 97    Group Leader:
3      Complete second draft of VAT law                               October 25, 97    H. Hurmethan (MOF)
4      Pass Law through Parliament                                    October 29, 97    Members:
5     Introduce draft VAT law in Hural                               November 15, 97  B. Ganhuleg (GDNT)
6      Commence public education program                             November 20, 97  Ya. Purvee (GDNT)
B. Munhbaatar (GDNT)
B. Batjargal
B. Erdenebaatar (GDNT)
2. Policy Interpretations
I     Develop detailed plan for activityl                            October 20, 97    Responsibility: GDNT
2     Develop initial interpretation of each provision               November 15, 97  Group Leader:
3     Begin consultation with industry sectors                       November 20, 97  G. Zinaamyadar (GDNT)
4      Develop draft interpretation bulletin for each provision       to February 15, 98 B. Ganhuleg (GDNT)
5      Submit bulletins for policy approval                          February 15, 98    B. Munhbaatar (GDNT)
6      Finalize printing of interpretations bulletins                March 1, 98       B. Batjargal
7      Establish permanent policy interpretations unit in headquarters  April 1, 98    B. Buyanbadrah (GDNT)
D. Bilegsaihan (GDNT)
3. Registration2
I     Develop detailed plan for registration                         November 11, 97  Responsibility: GDNT
2      Develop registration forms and procedures                     December 1, 97    Group Leader:
3     Develop strategy for identifying potential taxpayers           December 15, 97   L. Badamtsetseg (GDNT)
4      Identify information requirements to support registration     January 15, 98    Members:
5     Identify advertising strategy to support registration          January 30, 98    Ya. Misheglundun (GDNT)
6     Print information and forms for registration                   March 15, 98      D. Enhtuya (GDNT)
7     Identify training needed by inspectors                         March 15, 98      D. Bilegsaihan (GDNT)
8     Commence registration of new VAT taxpayers                     May 1, 98
4. Tax Accounting
I     Develop detailed plan for tax accounting                       November 1, 97   Responsibility: GDNT
2      Develop information required on VAT return                    December 15,97   Members:
3     Design VAT return                                              January 1, 98     D. Narantsegtseg (GDNT)
4      Develop procedures to record and control refund claims        January 15, 98    Ya. Batjargal (GDNT)
5     Identify changes required in tax accounting systems3           January 15, 98    Ch. Tsendmaa (GDNT)
6     Commence development of systems changes                        February 1, 98
I   This should include a complete list of the provisions that require interpretative guidelines
2    A decision is needed to establish whether business registered for the existing sales tax will be required to register again for the VAT, or whether
these registrations will automatically be carried forward into the new tax. This is a matter for consideration by departmental legal advisors.
3    These should include the calculation and payment of interest on overdue refund claims, and automatic adjustment of account balances when refunds
are paid.



Page 52                                                 ANNEX 11
Func-                                 Events                                        Dates                 Function
tion
7      Identify training needs of field staff                                March 1, 98
8      Prepare written procedures for field staff                            March 1,98
9      Test systems changes                                                  May 1 98
10     Finalize systems changes                                              June 1, 98
5. Taxpayer Information
I      Develop detailed plan for activity                                    November 1, 97    Responsibility: GDNT
2      Develop strategy and outline of taxpayer information program4         December 1, 97    Group Leader:
3      Develop information to support registration                           February 1, 98      B. Norjinlham (GDNT)
4      Develop instructions to support forms                                  February 15, 98    D. Tsedenpil (GDNT)
5      Develop procedures for advisory visits5                               March 1, 98         D. Shatatar (GDNT)
6      Advisory training for inspectors                                       March 1, 98        G. Enkhtor (GDNT)
7      Develop advertising program for registration                          March 15, 98
8      Develop each item of taxpayer information package                     to June 1 98
9      Print taxpayer information items                                       June 15 98
10     Commence advertising program                                          June 15, 98
11     Commence distribution of taxpayer information packages6               May 1, 98
12     Commence advisory visits                                              June 1, 98
6. Importations
I      Develop detailed plan for VAT on imports                              November 1, 97    Responsibility:
2      Identify impact on entry documentation                                November 15, 97   Customs General Dept/
3      Develop procedures for VAT deferral for capital goods of approved    January 15, 98       Group Leader:
importers7
4      Develop procedures for temporary imports                              February 1, 98      Sh. Tsogt
5      Amend import documents (if required)                                  February 15, 98    Members:
6      Determine GDNT information requirements and liaison procedures    March 15, 98            B. Oyungerel
7      Prepare information and procedures for Customs staff                  May 1, 98           D. Enhtuya (GDNT)
8      Prepare instructions for importers                                    May 1, 98           Ya. Batjargal (GDNT)
7. Refunds
I      Develop detailed plan for activity                                    November 1, 97    Responsibility:
2      Develop strategy and general approach for refunds program8            December 10, 97   MOF and GDNT
3      Identify information to be required in VAT return (or refund form)    December 15, 97   Group Leader:
4      Establish procedures with Treasury Department regarding payment of  January 15, 98        A. Enhbat
refunds
5      Develop procedures for interest calculation and payment               February 1, 98      Members:
6      Develop instructions for refund claimants                             February 15, 98    Ya. Purvee (GDNT)
7      Develop detailed description of refund verification (audit) program9   March 1, 98        Sh. Tserendorj (GDNT)
4    This should include a broad description of the taxpayer information program in terms of what booklets, bulletins and brochures will be provided in
support of registration and start up of the tax; what use will be made of advertising; what forms will require supporting instructions; will new
registrants receive an advisory visit; will seminars be provided; how will taxpayers be informed of subsequent changes, etc.
5    Advisory visits is a program where tax inspectors visit the premises of registered VAT taxpayers prior to the start of the tax, or immediately after
registration of a new taxpayer, to ensure that they understand their responsibilities, how the credit mechanism works, and the books and records
required.
6    Taxpayer information should be provided to newly registered VAT taxpayers and existing sales taxpayers if their registration is carried forward
7    Or whatever methods or special rules may be adopted
8    This refers to a general description of the refund program in terms of: will refunds be claimed on the tax return or on a separate form; will the
refunds be filed and approved locally or in a central refunds processing unit; how will refund claims be controlled and recorded; how will
verification be performed; who will have final approval; who will calculate interest; how will payments to claimants be accomplished, etc.



Page 53                                            ANNEX 11
Func-                              Events                                   Dates                Function
tion
8      Identify training needs of field inspectors                    March 15, 98       D. Oyun (GDNT)
9      Develop procedures for refund auditing                          June 10, 98       0. Oyuntuya (GDNT)
10    First refund claims received                                    October 10, 98
8. Training
I     Determine overall training needs                                March 15, 98      Responsibility:
2      Develop plan for development and delivery of required training  March 25, 98      GDNT
3      Develop training module to support registration                April 10, 98      Group Leader:
4      Develop general VAT training modules                           April 30, 98       B. Norjinlhamn (GDNT)
5      Develop registration training in field                         May 1, 98          Ch. Tsendmaa (GDNT)
6      Commence general VAT training                                  May 1, 98          D. Tsedenpil (GDNT)
7      Develop training to support advisory visits                    May 10, 98         S. Ganchimeg (GDNT)
8      Commence advisory visit training                               May 15, 98
9      Develop refund auditing training module                        June 30, 98
10     Commence refund auditing training                              July 1, 98
Note: this Implementation plan includes upfront activities prior to Board Presentation.
9    This should include criteria for whatever elements are included in the refund verification strategy, for example, criteria for selecting refuind claims
for mandatory preapproval audits or for immediate approval and post-audit if these elements are included in the program.



Page 54                                 ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: GUIDELINES FOR SELECTION OF EQUIPMENT FOR
THE GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
COMPONENT AND INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANTS
Stage 1: Needs Analysis and Preparation of the detailed functional design, systems specifications,
related manuals, and procedures.
The tasks involved in this activity would include:
*  Studying and documenting the functional processes including administrative procedures, transaction
documents, forms and information flows, (including data flow statistics), related to budget execution
accounting and reporting currently in use and recommendations for changes made previously.
* Developing ,defining and documenting a new set of functional processes, information flows,
procedures, transaction types and associated documents and forms, and related organization required
to operate the proposed new systems. This work would build on earlier work related to the design of
new budget classification structures, chart of accounts and budget execution and accounting
processes and procedures.
-  Developing an overall functional design and a detailed set of functional requirements for the
application systems required. This including the specification of: the processing and control
requirements for the budget execution and expenditure management and accounting system required
at various nodes of the information flow network, the output reports and ad hoc query requirements,
transaction documents, information flows, input screen designs, the interfaces and data flows between
the system and external systems.
*  Developing a set of business case scenarios that embody the core functional requirements of the
application systems as developed in the previous step. These scenarios should include a suite of test
transactions that are representative of the functional requirements developed above. They should be
detailed enough so that they can be used to compare and evaluate application software packages
available in the market as to their suitability for use by the Government.
The functional analysis for the design of the various systems would need to be conducted jointly by one
or more finance and accounting specialists on the one hand, who will develop the functional design and
define the overall system from the functional point of view, and; systems development specialists, who
will develop the systems specifications of the necessary computer based software required to automate
the systems. It is important to note that the new systems may need to be operated manually at some sites
for some time before the computer based systems are designed an programmed, and implemented
progressively across all sites. A full set of procedures and documentation will therefore need to be
developed to operate the manual systems.
The primary deliverables for this activity will be:
* Functional design documents for the various public expenditure management and accounting systems
modules.



Page 55                                 ANNEX 12
*  A complete set of functional requirements for the new system including specimen transaction
documents, reporting formats and a description of procedures and associated manuals required for the
implementation and operation of the new systems.
*  A set of business case scenarios that embody the core functional requirements of the application
systems and a test suite of transactions that can be used for comparing and evaluating alternative
software packages.
Stage II. Design of the Technology Architecture Required to Implement the Information Systems
This includes drawing up specifications of the H1W and S/W to be installed at various nodes and the
mode of interconnection of this Hardware and Software. The overall H/W, S/W strategy to be employed
for implementation is determined by the fact that a Government wide accounting system will require a
multitiered network with modules at the central, provincial and spending units levels. The system would
require facilities for generating, storing, and processing data at each level and for exchanging data
between levels. The data volumes encountered could vary widely across the nodes of the network,
dictating the size of the computer at each node. Application software should therefore be scaleable for
small or large computers and usabl[e on a variety of H/W platforms. The system should utilize a
distributed computer architecture with computing power located at the various nodes of the network. The
software development environment should be portable to different platforms (UNIX or NT based) and
use modern application development tools such as Relational Data Base Management Systems
(RDBMS), Fourth Generation Languages (4GLs) and Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs). The system
should have Mongolian as a national language support (NLS).
This task woulld include:
*  Surveying information flows and transaction volumes (current and projected) and data requirements
across the network, to determine sizes and configurations of the H/W, S/W to be installed at these
nodes and the mode of the interconnection of the nodes between the Center, and provincial sites to
ensure accurate and timely data transfer between the nodes. This may include sample site surveys.
*  Preparing the specifications for the hardware, systems software, application development software
and the application software package (based on the earlier task), required at the various sites, for each
phase of the project, for incorporation in tender documents. These specifications would be developed
after taking into account the existing H/W and S/W and assessing which elements are usable for the
new system.
*  Drawing up specifications for associated facilities required for the installation of the system, such as
power stabilizers, Uninterrupted FPower Supplies (UPSs), telecommunication interfaces, computer site
requirements, for incorporation into the tender documents.
The deliverables of this activity will be:
* Specifications for Hardware and Software, Communications facilities and other associated facilities
required for the implementation of the Computer Systems.
*  Functional Specifications for the Application Software for each module of the required system.
Stage m. Investigation of Alternatives for Application Software
On the basis of the functional analysis carried out as above, MOF would investigate alternatives for
application software. This would include ascertaining whether one or more 'off the shelf software
packages are available which can meet the functional requirements of the systems as defined above.
While conducting a review of software packages it would be advisable to ensure that:



Page 56                                ANNEX 12
*  The software package provides the required functionality
*  Local support is available for the package and it is possible to obtain and install upgrades and/or
changes to the packages in Mongolia as they become available
* The vendor for the package provides customization assistance as may be required, or alternatively the
package source code is available for making changes as may be required
*  The costs associated with any customization are identified clearly in the total cost
*  The package runs on a range of hardware and operating software which is compliant with the
hardware/software strategy proposed for MOF systems (above)
*  Adequate documentation is available to enable package installation and use
*  Potential licensing arrangements can accommodate the use of the package at multiple sites in
Mongolia.
In case it is not found feasible or cost effective to purchase an off the shelf package to satisfy the
requirements of a particular system, MOF will need to develop a plan for the development of the
application systems, and estimate the resources required to carry out the development. In this case the
functional and systems design carried out above can be extended to develop the full systems and program
specifications for the various modules of the systems mentioned above. These would then be used as the
basis for the contract or inhouse, development of the application software. These documents should be
detailed and specific enough to enable the software contractor to develop the software module without
further recourse to the end users.
The deliverables for this activity will be:
*  The results of the application software package evaluation process with recommendations for
possible packages which could satisfy the functional requirements of the proposed systems.
*  In the event that a package option is not found to be feasible, a full set of detailed systems
specifications and program specifications which could be used by MOF for contracting the
development of this software module by local software houses, or for in house development.
Stage IV. Preparation of Tender Documents for and Acquisition/Development of HJW and S/W.
Key steps include:
*  Incorporating the hardware and software specifications prepared as part of earlier tasks into an RFP
for procurement of the hardware and software. These tender documents should be prepared in
accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines and procedures. The specifications for procurement
must include provision for maintenance and support of the hardware and software for a period of 3
years, and for consumables for three years. H/W requirements should also include associated
facilities, such as UPSs, etc.
*  Develop criteria for the evaluation of vendor proposals.
*  Initiate the tendering process, evaluating vendor proposals and selecting a preferred tender
*  Acquire hardware and software.
*  Draw up the specifications for, and monitoring the installation and carry out quality assurance during
the suppliers' testing of the hardware and software procured for the project. In the case of
procurement of software packages (if this is found to be a feasible alternative) MOF will need to
monitor and ensure quality assurance of the suppliers testing of the software to ensure that the
packages have the required functionality. In case a package requires customization to meet specified
functional requirements, changes will need to be specified and implemented.
* The Government may wish to opt for custom, or inhouse software development.



Page 57                                ANNEX 12
The deliverables for this activity will be:
*  Specifications and RFP docwnents for the procurement of Hardware and Software for' the
implementation.
*  Specifications for the application software, taking into account the result of the evaluation of the
application software packages.
*  Evaluation Criteria for Hardware and Software, including test data required to ensure the proper
functioning of the application soiftware;
*  Technical management and quality assurance of the vendor's work in constructing systems modules;
*  Data Conversion Plan
*  User Training Plan
*  User Acceptance Test Plan
*  Provide the supervision plan and acceptance plan for the software development phase.



Page 58                                ANNEX 13
ANNEX 13: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR VAT COMPONENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Advisory services
(A)   Long-Term  VAT implementation advisor (financed by IMF-administered Japanese Trust
Fund)
Reporting responsibility The long-term VAT implementation advisor should be assigned to the Director
General of the GDNT and should work closely with the Project Director and the persons heading the
MOF and CGA implementation teams. The long-term advisor should be in place by the end of November
1997, and the assignment should continue for 12 months, to assist in the implementation of the VAT and
the initial period of its operation.
Role
The long term advisor should provide technical advice and guidance to all areas of the Mongolian
administration involved in the introduction of the VAT, and should coordinate the activities related to the
other areas of technical assistance.
Work program
1.    Assist and advise the MOF in drafting the VAT law, regulations and related white paper.
2.    Ensure that there is ongoing effective liaison between the GDNT, MOF and CGA throughout the
development of the legislation and the implementation of the tax.
3.    Sit as an advisor on the MOF Steering Committee.
4.    Work as an advisor to the GDNT VAT Management Committee.
5.    Work on an ongoing daily basis with the GDNT working groups to complete the following tasks:
* development of detailed implementation plans for each function;
* design forms including registration application, registration certificate, tax report, additional
tax assessment form and refund application;
*  identify and develop changes required to registration and tax accounting systems and
procedures;
* develop and deliver training modules to implementation teams on the operations of the VAT,
including the scope of the tax, exemptions and zero rate, the credit mechanism, requirements
for apportioning credits, fraud schemes, refund verification and taxpayer auditing;
* develop policy interpretations bulletins for provisions requiring clarification;
* develop operational guidelines to facilitate administrative requirements;
* assist with the design and development of a taxpayer information program, including
appropriate publications, taxpayer seminars, advisory visits, checklists and illustrative
material to support advisory visits and seminars, and ongoing taxpayer service;



Page 59                                ANNEX 13
* assist with the development of a registration program including a strategy to identify potential
taxpayers, advertising requirements, forms and related information for potential registrants;
* develop procedures for the collection of tax arrears and the use of authorized measures;
* assist with the design and development of the program to record, control, verify and pay
refunds, including the links to MOF;
* assist with the preparation of instructions to tax office staff; and
* assist with the preparation of training modules for general VAT training and for specialist
training to support registration, advisory visits and refunds verification.
6.    Assist the CGA and GDN1' in developing procedures and safeguards for the VAT deferral on
capital goods and the treatment of temporary imports.
7.    Advise on the development of appropriate financial controls.
8.    Advise on the development of a penalty structure and appeals process.
9.    Coordinate the activities of short term advisors.
10.   Coordinate with the IMF, participants and hosts respecting the study tours.
11.   Monitor all implementation deadlines to ensure VAT is implemented as planned.
(B)   Short-Term taxpayer service advisor
Reporting responsibility The short term taxpayer services advisor should be assigned to the Project
Director and should work closely with the GDNT Working Group responsible for taxpayer information.
This assignment should be for one month, beginning March 1, 1998.
Role The short-term advisor should provide advice and guidance on all areas of taxpayer information and
taxpayer services, including the preparation of publications, contracting with printers, the use of
advertising, media relations.
Work program
1.    Assist and advise the GDNT in designing and developing a taxpayer information program to
support the implementation of the VAT.
2.    Advise on the establishment of an ongoing taxpayer services function.
3.    Advise on the creation of effective publications, including the use of graphics, illustrations,
formatting, and contracting arrangernents;
4.    Provide advise to the VAT Management Committee.
5.    Work on a daily basis with the working group to complete the following tasks:
* finalizing the design of the taxpayer information program, including guidelines on the
appropriate use for each type of publication;
* the design of each publication to be distributed to taxpayers;
*  provide advice on the content and presentation of inforrnation in each publication;



Page 60                                ANNEX 13
*  develop material to promote the understanding of the credit mechanism and the use of proper
VAT invoices;
*  development of a taxpayer advisory program, including checklists and illustrative material to
support the program; and
*  develop advertising campaigns to support registration and taxpayer education.
(C)   Short-Term audit advisor
Reporting responsibility The short-term audit advisor should be assigned to the Project Director and
should work closely with the Head of the working group responsible for refunds and with the director of
the Audit department. This assignment should be for one month beginning in March 1998.
Role The short-term audit advisor should provide technical advice on the design and development of a
program to control, verify and effect payment of VAT refunds claimed, and on the general design of
VAT audit programs and audit selection.
Work Program
1.    Design and develop a comprehensive program for the verification of refunds, including a strategy
for selective auditing, criteria for selection, forms, post-approval audits, financial controls and workload
allocation;
2.    Design and develop detailed procedures for desk and field audits including;
3.    Review and advise on procedures for recording, controlling, paying and accounting for refund;
and
4.    Assist in the design of programs and procedures for VAT purchase audits and invoice cross-
checking, including selection criteria.
(D)   Short-Term computer programming advisor
Reporting responsibility The short-term computer programming advisor should be assigned to the GDNT
Project Director and work closely with the head of the working groups on tax accounting and refunds.
This assignment should be for one month, beginning around February 1, 1998.
Role The short-term advisor should provide technical advise and guidance on the design and development
of changes required to GDNT accounting systems to accommodate the requirements of the VAT,
including refunds of VAT, linkages to MOF accounting systems, deferral of VAT on imported capital
goods and information exchange with Customs.
Work program
1.    Develop changes to VAT accounts to accommodate new reporting requirements and the receipt
and payment of refund claims, including linkages to MOF;
2.    Determine the need for, and develop, any systems changes to accommodate the deferral of VAT
on imported capital goods and temporary importations, including links to Customs systems;
3.    Develop interim measures and procedures to link with Customs' accounts systems to verify VAT
paid in respect to specific importations of importers; and



Page 61                                ANNEX 13
4.    Assist in the design of a system to link Customs' importer accounts and GDNT taxpayer accounts
to compare VAT paid monthly in respect to imports with credits claimed for each registered VAT
taxpayer.
2. Study tours
(A)   Preimplementation study tour
Scope A study tour should be arranged for 7 officials, including 4 from GDNT, 1 MOF, 1 Customs and 1
interpreter, to visit a country with a strong VAT administration, an integrated tax administration and a
relatively small taxpayer base to study the planning and implementation of the VAT. The study tour
should take place in February 1998.
Focus The objectives of the study tour should be to gather information and advice on:
* the programs used for VAT registration;
* programs and publications used to develop and publicize VAT policy interpretations;
* the taxpayer information programs used to support the implementation and ongoing
administration of VAT;
* the systems and procedures used for recording, controlling, verifying and paying refund
claims;
* VAT related training programs provided to employees at implementation and ongoing;
* the policies and procedures used for temporary importations; and
* VAT information exchanged between Customs and the tax administration.
(B)   Postimplementation study tour
Scope A study tour should be arranged for 7 officials, including 5 GDNT, 1 MOF, and 1 interpreter, to
visit a country with an integrated tax administration covering VAT and income taxes, and strong audit
and enforcement programs. The visit should be scheduled for a period of one week to take place in
October 1998.
Focus The objectives of the study tour should be to gather information and advice on:
*  VAT audit programs, including integrated multitax audits, audit plans and selection;
*  programs and procedures used for the verification of VAT refunds;
*  programs to identify and register potential VAT taxpayers;
* procedures and powers used to collect outstanding taxes and obtain returns from late filers;
*  policies and procedures used in assessing taxes and penalties, including informal and formal
appeals procedures; and
*  taxpayer information programs used.
3. Equipment
(A)   Headquarters Publications Unit
Purpose The successful introduction of the VAT will require the production of various guides and
pamphlets for taxpayers and training manuals for tax officials. GDNT headquarters does not presently
possess adequate equipment to design and print such publications. The proposed equipment listed below
will provide the GDNT with the capacity to undertake the design and low-volume printing of guides and
manuals. A decision on how to best carry out high-volume printing (i.e., in house or contracting to private



Page 62                                ANNEX 13
vendors) needs to be made before finalizing the specifications of the equipment. If the VAT is to enter
into effect on July 1, 1998, it will be critical for this equipment to be purchased and installed by March 1,
1998 and training in its use completed by March 15, 1998.
Equipment
* 6 networked personal computers with monitors appropriate for graphical design work;
* network software;
* forms design, graphics, and desktop publishing software in Cyrillic alphabet;
* 2 high-speed color printers;
* I photocopier;
* consumable supplies for all equipment.
Priority Publications:
Taxpayer Education:
Registration guide
General VAT guide
Special VAT issues guide
Training:
VAT Law
Registration procedures
Advisory visit
VAT operations
VAT auditing procedures
Training
Training should be arranged in the use of all equipment listed above.
(B)   Taxpayer Service Centers
Purpose To increase the level of service provided to taxpayers, the GDNT intends to construct a taxpayer
service center in each of the larger tax offices. These centers are to be used for group seminars, ad hoc
meetings with individual taxpayers, and to serve as a self-help area where taxpayers can consult reference
material on various tax-related matters. To facilitate the introduction of the VAT by July 1, 1998, the
taxpayer service centers should be operational by May 1, 1998. A finalized list of equipment should be
prepared by the GDNT following a decision on how many taxpayer service centers are to be established.
Equipment
Each taxpayer service center should be equipped with:
*  overhead projector and screen;
* white board;
* photocopier;
* tables and chairs;
* magazine racks;



Page 63                                  ANNEX 13
* consumables for equipment.
Training
Assistance may be needed to install some of the equipment. However, no training should be required in
the use of the equipment.






MAP SECTION



IBRD 26450
'.                   [ S                                                     l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      ~         ~       ~       ~       ~ ~              ~         ~       ~~~AKE-\     ''"'-- 
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN FEDERATION  .J
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U            '                       <                                 t                        > U on iJ 0                                                         .,S-.A,,-
CHINA                                4                        8/  .'A    i                                                               A   ..                  t, -  \ = CHINA
l                                                       OVOADNAAVHAN  8ULGANe                                                                                                                                       4  nDoOC
A~~~HANGAY')~~MNGLI
e'  .   /      .                         t                     >        j^   '  (    8        iu   S  t           t    tig      ozu       0                    t                        o-4,"iS TSERE                   ..  .   ....
109ubon   d   >  ALW  ;70 -  e   0 F:scnhona Pd; i   k  <   . ' e id   T         4          <             - cynnoonh       o         0 ff E RUUN URT        ;      tFfBARUUN UR
rIS   LAY                         donq1             OVORHANGAY A                             MA 5l1NDALGOBIX 
\ 12 ; ! 0 909 io (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - ~~~~~~~RIVERS
0                                                             DALANZADGAD                                                                      -   S   LAKES
I LO.~~~~~~IRS 0     1.  100   150   20  49                                                                                                                     FkR-WEATHER ROADS, TRACKS OR TFWL5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAR-EATIE RADSTRCK ORTRIL
KLOMETERS 0   50  100  1SO  200                          <                             /                   N8Yon    OXINOCOi                             A               A                                        -  ALLWEATHER HARD OR LOOSE SURFACE ROADS
RAE LROADS
-F--I                                                                                                                                     t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,RFIELDE
MILES 0      50       ICE    ISO       200   _-  KED
MILES a  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1.  150 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+  INTERNATIONALA RFORT
A SELECTRD TOWNS / A LAGES
1 AIMRAK CAP TALS
The AAAAAArieS,  AAIAAK A,AAAAiAAEIAAnAAA  AAons  ond~ .AAAEA,A A ony inF                                                                                                                                                 NAT ONAL CAP TAL
sho_n  on  th  map do nof smply on she  porY of rhe World R=nE AlhdAK BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMAKBOUNARIE
-   NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
22   94     '99                                   jo                                 rje                                  ;2                                   16               OC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOBER 1994



