Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3081 MOG
Development Credit Agreement
(Fiscal Technical Assistance Project)
between
MONGOLIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 8, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3081 MOG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 1998, between MONGOLIA (the “Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”).
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS: (B) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 as amended through December 2, 
1997 (the “General Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms, wherever used in this Agreement, have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s Fiscal Years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
Page  2
31 in each calendar year, and the term “Fiscal Years” means, collectively, more than 
one Fiscal Year;
(b)
“Governmental Banking Services” means banking services directly related 
to bank accounts of the Borrower’s governmental agencies and entities;
(c)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and such term includes 
any successor thereto;
(d)
“Program” means the Borrower’s Public Administration Reform Program;
(e)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
March 16, 1998, between the Borrower and the Association;
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
“PSMFA Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee for the 
Borrower’s Commission for the Implementation of the Public Sector Management and 
Finance Act, responsible for the overall supervision of the governmental financial 
management component of the Program; and
(h)
“VAT Steering Committee” means the Borrower’s Steering Committee 
responsible for the implementation of the Borrower’s value added tax regime.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Association the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn 
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
Page  3
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2008 and ending February 15, 2038. \0c
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2018 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred ninety dollars ($790) 
in constant 1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent 
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and public taxation practices, 
and shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan set 
Page  4
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project, or 
any part thereof; and (ii) register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall: \0c
(i)
maintain, in accordance with sound accounting practices, records 
and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
(1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal 
Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Khudaldaany gudamj - 4
Ulaanbaatar 11
Mongolia
Telex: 
79241 EZGHG MH
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
MONGOLIA
By /s/ Bat-Erdene Batbayar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
  % of
Page  6
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
  1,980,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
    420,000
100%
services
(3)
Training
    650,000
100%
(4)
Refunding of the
    370,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
    380,000
   ________
TOTAL
  3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed three hundred eighty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 380,000) may be made in respect of Categories 
(1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after January 1, 1998.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each; (b) 
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to consulting firms costing less than 
the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) each; (c) consultants’ 
services under contracts awarded to individual consultants costing less than the 
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000); and (d) training, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower’s Program of Public 
Administration Reform and to assist the Borrower to increase the efficiency and 
accountability of its internal public administration by: (i) establishing a 
transparent core government financial system; (ii) improving governmental accounting 
practices and procedures; and (iii) setting up a more effective system of governmental 
revenue mobilization, through the introduction of a value-added tax on goods and 
services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives.
Part A:
Governmental Financial Management
1.
Provision of advisory services, training and study visits abroad in respect of 
governmental accounting system principles and practices, treasury, debt and cash 
Page  7
management, auditing, management skills and related disciplines.
2.
Design of a fully functional and automated (i) debt, cash and treasury 
management system and (ii) governmental accounting system.
3.
Provision of (a) computer hardware and software equipment; and (b) related 
office materials required for carrying out each of the foregoing, including any 
necessary operational technical training and end-user support.
Part B:
Value Added Tax Implementation
1.
Preparing a value-added tax law, including implementing regulations thereto.
2.
Formulating and carrying out a publicity campaign and public consultations for 
the effective enforcement of the law and regulations referred to above.
3.
Developing a detailed time-based action plan and associated publications and 
materials for taxpayer information functions.
4.
Improving tax administration operations by formulating and implementing detailed 
time-based action plans for tax policy interpretation, taxpayer registration, tax 
accounting and reporting, tax audits, tax refunds and information and data exchange 
between tax administration and customs services.
5.
Provision of computer hardware and software equipment and related office 
materials required for carrying out each of the foregoing, including any necessary 
operational technical training.
6.
Provision of advisory services, training and study visits abroad on modalities 
and implementation of value added tax regimes.
*  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
“Guidelines”) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
Page  8
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods under Part A (3) (a) of the Project, which the Association agrees can only 
be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 
of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the “Consultant Guidelines”) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  9
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Advisory services for treasury management and government accounting shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or 
more, the references for, and qualifications and terms of reference of, the 
consultants and the terms of their employment shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
Page  10
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to four 
hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation for the Special Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent to two 
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of one million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,000,000).
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
If, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
Page  11
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
respective Eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into such Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Implementation Plan
Section 1. In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall: (a) maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, the PSMFA 
Steering Committee pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
ensure that the Committee shall be chaired at all times by the Borrower’s Prime 
Minister and shall be composed of representatives of the Prime Minister’s office, the 
MOF, the State Audit Board, the Government Services Council and the Senior Economic 
Advisor to the Prime Minister; (b) maintain throughout the period of Project 
implementation, the VAT Steering Committee pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Association; (c) maintain a Project working group, throughout the period of 
Project implementation, with terms of reference, membership and other resources 
satisfactory to the Association; and (d) designate a project manager, with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, responsible for 
coordinating the activities of the various donors involved in reforming the Borrower’s 
public administration.
Section 2. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
Maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Project;
(b) 
Prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association: (i) an annual report, not later than 
Page  12
March 31 in each Fiscal Year, beginning Fiscal year 1999, summarizing the monitoring 
and evaluation activities carried out pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above in respect 
of the preceding Fiscal year, and setting forth proposed measures, as indicated by 
said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the Project; 
(ii) a mid-term report, not later than December 31, 1999, setting forth any proposed 
measures, as indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the 
objectives of the Project; and (iii) a semi-annual progress report, not later than 
October 30 in each Fiscal Year, summarizing progress achieved in Project 
implementation, summarizing the Project’s financial status, including reporting on, 
inter alia, costs incurred by individual expenditure category and detailing variances 
compared to the corresponding implementation plan, and status of procurement 
contracts; and
(c) 
Exchange views with the Association on each report furnished pursuant to 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, and thereafter take all measures in relation thereto 
as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
the Borrower, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 4.   In carrying out the Program, the Borrower shall take all action necessary 
to ensure that inter alia: (a) design of the governmental financial management system, 
pursuant to Part A of the Project, allows the MOF to discharge promptly its duties and 
responsibilities under the Borrower’s Public Sector Management and Finance Act; and 
(b) only banks and financial institutions that meet the banking prudential 
requirements of the Bank of Mongolia are selected for the provision of Governmental 
Banking Services.
Section 5. The Borrower shall ensure that all training activities under the Project 
are carried out in accordance with a training program acceptable to the Association.
Section 6. The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views with regard to the progress achieved by the Borrower 
in implementing the Program.
