                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 35334

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (PPFI-Q0980 IDA-30810)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO MONGOLIA




                                         FOR A

                          FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                       May 17, 2006




China and Mongolia Country Department
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective May 2006)

                           Currency Unit = Tugrik
                                Tug 1.00 = US$ 0.00084
                               US$ 1.00 = Tug 1,190.00

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1     December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB                  Asian Development Bank
BB                   Budgetary Body
BOM                  Bank of Mongolia (Central Bank)
COA                  Chart of Accounts
DMIS                 Debt Management and Information System
DMFAS                Debt Management Financial Analysis System
ECTAC                Economic Capacity Building Technical Assistance Credit
ESAF                 Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDNT                 General Department of National Taxation
GFMIS                Government Financial Management Information System
GTZ                  Gesselscheft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IAS                  International Accounting Standards
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NZODA                New Zealand Overseas Development Agency
PAD                  Project Appraisal Document
PARMGs               Public Administration Reform Management Group
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PSMFA                Public Sector Management and Finance Act
PSR                  Project Summary Report
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
RDBMS                Relational Database Management System
SSC                  State Services Council
TAC                  Technical Assistance Credit
TFMIS                Treasury Financial Management Information System
TSA                  Treasury Single Account
UNCTAD               United Nations Conference on Trade
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
VAT                  Value Added Tax



                         Vice President:      Jeffrey Gutman, Acting, EAPVP
                       Country Director       David R. Dollar, EACCF
     Chief Economist and Sector Director      Homi Kharas, EASPR
                     Task Team Leader         Shabih Ali Mohib , EASPR

                                         MONGOLIA
                              Fiscal Technical Assistance Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P051855                                                  Project Name: Mongolia Fiscal Accounting Technical
                                                                     Assistance (c 3081)
Team Leader: Shabih Ali Mohib                                        TL Unit: EASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 17, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Mongolia Fiscal Accounting Technical                     L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0980; IDA-30810
                            Assistance (c 3081)
   Country/Department: MONGOLIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Debt management and fiscal
                            substainability (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P); Tax policy and administration
                            (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/15/1997                                     Effective: 02/03/1999                02/03/1999
     Appraisal: 01/16/1998                                         MTR: 12/01/2000                  05/28/2002
      Approval: 06/02/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MONGOLIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager:                 Homi Kharas                                    Pieter Bottelier (Acting)
Team Leader at ICR:             Shabih Ali Mohib                               Natasha Beschorner
ICR Primary Author:             Thang-Long Ton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. Background. Since 1990, following the establishment of the newly democratic Mongolia,
the country opted for a market-led system. A rapid transition was achieved by `shock therapy'
through three main mechanisms: privatization, currency reform, and price and wage liberalization.
Mongolia stabilized the economy and implemented a range of reforms including the removal of
most price controls, privatization of small and medium industries, and changes in laws and
regulations to enable private sector activities to operate effectively. To support and facilitate a
functioning market-based economy, one of the prerequisites for the country is an effective public
administration to manage efficiently its public resources.

3.1.2. The World Bank and other international financial institutions -- including the IMF and the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) -- have contributed since 1991 funding and technical assistance
to implement the country's transition and reform program, including the government's program
for Public Administration Reform. In particular, the Bank's 1998 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Mongolia aimed to provide support for better public finances, resources management
and capacity building in the public sector. The Fiscal Technical Assistance Project was a part of
the program to aid the government in the pursuit of better macroeconomic management, fostering
governance reforms and improving public sector accounting. This project was a follow-up to the
first IDA's Technical Assistance Credit (2321-MOG), which financed advisory support and
training in budget management, treasury management, tax and tax administration reform for the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and central bank accounting for the Bank of Mongolia (BOM),
implemented with the support of the IMF.

3.1.3. Objectives. The main objectives of the Fiscal TA were as follows:

·       To increase the efficiency and accountability of the government through the design and
implementation of an improved government financial management system; and
·       To set up a more effective, non-distortive system of government revenue mobilization
through introduction of a value-added tax (VAT) on goods and services.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1. There was no revision in the objectives of the project.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. The project had two components: (i) establishment of a government financial
management system; and (ii) the introduction of a value-added tax (VAT) on goods and services.


3.3.2. Component 1 ­ Government financial management. This component aimed at increasing
the efficiency and accountability of the government in two stages. In the first stage, the project
was expected to finance advisory services and training in the areas of government accounting,
treasury debt, cash management, auditing, management skills and related disciplines. The second


                                                  - 2 -

stage would focus on the implementation of an improved core government financial management
information system, based on a defined needs assessment. Once established, the system would
provide for consolidation of agency budgets and reports, allowing for full accrual accounting and
reporting at agency level, and also for costing. (1)                   The system thus designed would embody the
following responsibilities: (i) production of government financial statements; (ii) specification of
additional government financial classifications; (iii) establishment of bank accounts; (iv)
management of cash balances in bank accounts; (v) control of government debt and financial
investments; (vi) external audits; and (vii) MOF internal control.

Reference 1.
Specifically, the project would help set up a financial management system with the following capabilities:
· Expenditure management: The process is as follows: (i) MOF advises budgetary bodies (BBs) (ministries, agencies, or other
government entities) of their annual budget and any changes in authority during the fiscal year; BBs have authority to expend
up to appropriation in each appropriation class; (ii) BBs authorize expenses within budget and record corresponding
transactions in BB ledgers, verify receipts of goods and services, authorize and pay suppliers; (iii) BBs provide monthly
financial statements prepared in accordance with international accounting standards (IAS) and supplemented by appropriations
information to MOF; and (iv) MOF uses these reports to produce consolidated monthly and annual financial statements for the
government and monitors the use of budget by BBs by comparing actual expenses with the budget on a year-to-date basis.
· Cash management: (i) BBs are authorized to operate their own bank accounts with commercial banks, the creation of which
is authorized by MOF; (ii) MOF authorizes cash advances to BB bank accounts during the year according to cash profiles
agreed by MOF at the beginning of each fiscal year, based on the forecast cash requirement of each BB budget, release of cash
to BB accounts subject to certification by MOF of proper exercise of legal appropriation authority; (iii) MOF has the power to
operate on BB bank accounts during the year in order to manage the government's overall cash position in a centralized cash
management system but in a manner that does not interfere with the BBs' normal management of the account; MOF can pay
interest on deposits with it by the BBs as an incentive to efficient cash management; and (iv) BOM, as the government's
banker, monitors balances in all government bank accounts on a daily basis and report them to MOF and executes the funding
instructions of the ministry.


3.3.3. The project provided for technical assistance needs to implement the government financial
management system through funding for the IT system and training to ensure adequate staff and
knowledge to operate it. Specifically, the project would finance technical assistance to develop an
overall training strategy for training users for the implementation of the government financial
system, study tours for officials to learn and benefit from the experiences of other governments in
these areas, guidance material; and training materials and training for finance staff from BBs.

3.3.4. This component also included the assistance to improve the management of the country
external debt and to centralize it with the MOF. Official debt records were dispersed in many
ministries and agencies with no proper classification and storage. Consequently, there was no
knowledge of what was owed and to whom.

3.3.5. Component 2 ­ VAT Introduction. As part of the major tax reform program to lower
taxes and marginal tax rates and broaden the tax base, the government would introduce a
value-added tax down to the wholesale and retail level. Building on the base of current 10
percent sales tax, it will be extended to cover virtually all goods and services and a broad range of
businesses, both legal entities and individuals. The VAT Law was expected to pass in January
1998 and ready for implementation by July 1, 1998.

3.3.6. The project aimed to support the implementation of the VAT by improving the tax
administration and by informing tax payers on the introduction of the VAT. The activities



                                                                - 3 -

included: (i) legislation and taxpayer information; (ii) tax administration operations, and (iii)
training. This project component would finance (i) consultant advisory services in the areas of
taxation, audit, computer programming, customs, and VAT implementation, (ii) study tours, (iii)
equipment, and (iv) public awareness campaigns.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1. There was no revision in the components of the credit. However, Component One was
modified with the decision to implement the GFMIS to all ministries and agencies through two
stages within the project's life, instead of the original design whereby the system would be
developed first at MOF and at two designated pilot sites (the State Property Committee and the
General Department of National Taxation) with decision to be made on the replication of the new
system across all ministries and the additional financing could be coming from follow-on projects.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1 The project's overall quality at entry was rated satisfactory. The selection of the project's
components reflected the priority of the government to improve its management information
system including debt management and to insure smooth implementation of the VAT. The
project's assistance to the implementation of the VAT was timely. There was close cooperation
and coordination between the IMF and Bank staff in the analysis of and recommendations on the
public sector reform program.

3.5.2 However, in hindsight, the initial design for Component One (concerning the GFMIS)
could have taken into account a more realistic situation in the country, given the rudimentary
status of public accounting and the IT situation on the eve of the project implementation,
especially the low computer literacy level among public servants in local governments and the lack
of a consistent Chart of Accounts (COA). As originally designed, the project aimed to develop
and implement the system first at MOF and at two designated pilot sites (the State Property
Committee and the General Department of National Taxation or GDNT). It stipulated that after
testing the system, replication of the new system could be made across all ministries (nine at the
time of the project preparation) and the additional financing could be coming from follow-up
projects. While this plan reflected a reasonable risk-controlled approach through pilot sites, in
hindsight, it would have prolonged the existence of and the need to operate concurrently two
systems with the associated high costs and risks for the government. The dual systems would
require more MOF staff dedicated to their operations and reconciliation of records. There was
also uncertainty of funding for the more extensive stage of implementation following the pilot
stage. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did not discuss the approach to be undertaken for
Component One in details nor the associated risks. As this component was being implemented in
2002, the government decided that the system would go live with all government entities
participating and this approach was successful as these were both determination and great support
among the participants involved. Funding for government wide operational deployment was
provided by the World Bank's Economic Capacity and Technical Assistance Credit (ECTAC).

3.5.3 Results of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) findings. The project was reviewed by the
QAG Panel on supervision which gave a rating of "marginally satisfactory" over the July


                                                 - 4 -

1999-June 2001 period. (2) This rating was due to the following reasons: (i) lack of effort to
draw on requisite IT and procurement skills despite the dominant component of the project which
mainly comprises procurement and installation of IT systems during the early implementation
period reviewed; (ii) no procurement plan for the first year which probably could have reduced
implementation delays; (iii) the fiduciary aspects, including timely audit of project accounts, were
not followed up with rigor and no ex-post review of procurement; and (iv) project documentation
(Pars) was not updated properly, ratings are not fully consistent with the actual situation, and
relevant project correspondences were not filed properly.

3.5.4. The Panel, however, complimented the then task manager (who took over the project
implementation responsibility after it was reverted back to the Bank's headquarters) for
improvements in supervision. Given the delay, the QAG review recommended three actions for
improvements: (i) a mid-term review; (ii) more attention to audits; and (iii) an ex-post review of
procurement. (2) All three recommendations were subsequently undertaken. A mid-term review
was held on May 28, 2002. Overdue audit reports were finalized and brought up to date from
October 2002. An ex-post review of procurement was completed in June 2003 with a set of
recommendations including the preparation of a procurement plan for Bank review and the need
for compliance to Bank's procurement guidelines. (3)

Reference 2. Quality Assurance Group, "Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects ­ Mongolia ­ Fiscal Technical Assistance
Project," January 25, 2002.

Reference 3. The ex-post procurement review recommends the following: (i) Time for consultants to submit Expression of
Interests shall be at least 14 days; (ii) Government officials shall not be listed as candidates for providing Bank-financed
consulting services; (iii) Longer term contracts, e.g. one year renewable after the probationary period, shall be adopted for
hiring local individual consultants for the PIU.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 The Fiscal Technical Assistance project has achieved its original objectives and the project
is rated as highly satisfactory, taking into account the tremendous challenges and the odds facing
the government, (4) especially the MOF, and Bank staff at the beginning and their subsequent
diligent efforts to bring the project to a successful end. All the components have been completed
to the satisfaction of the government and its users and IDA with the total cost of $5.3 million.
The first component which consisted of the GFMIS (US$ 3.6 million from Fiscal TA and US$ 1.6
million from ECTAC) and the DMFAS (amount $536,834), was implemented and made fully
operational to provide indispensable services to MOF and the government as a whole.
Component Two which supported the VAT (amount: $456,757) contributed to a smooth
introduction of VAT, a fully functioning VAT administration office in Mongolia, and its improved
administration procedures through advisory assistance, training, and public awareness campaign.

Reference 4. There were five changes in Government and the consequent need to reconfirm ownership, and changing views
about the kind of fiscal system that would be suitable for Mongolia, making the operating environment unduly difficult during
the early stage of the project's implementation and supervision.


4.1.2 The GFMIS went live in January 2005 with success (see Para. 4.2.4) after a long and hard



                                                                - 5 -

implementation road of about six years. The government signed the operational acceptance
certificate on April 15, 2005. The GFMIS now serves as the backbone of the government
financial management system, meeting the project's goals and the government's specialized needs.
GFMIS improves budget execution and accountability, enables accurate and timely financial and
management reporting, strengthens budget oversight and monitoring, and builds accounting and
internal auditing capacity at the central and regional levels.

4.1.3 The GFMIS system is becoming an effective tool for MOF to manage and monitor
national finances, enhancing budgetary controls and strengthening the government's fiscal
discipline. Some of the users (5) noted in interviews conducted for the ICR in February 2006 that
the system if "definitely" helpful and it allows for "very good budget control." The system
produces timely and accurate reports for the users who appreciate the fact that they can produce
"important reports whenever we wish" as compared with the earlier process of producing the
same reports manually. Further, previously, any reports production took "time and sometime not
accurate," but at present "end-year balance was accurate and timely for the management." The
system provides users with daily budget balances that proves to be a highly efficient tool for
budget control at each level of spending agencies, i.e., at the line ministry, local government level,
etc.

Reference 5. Interviews with officials from Ulaanbaatar City Treasury, one of the biggest user of the GFMIS and Tuk Aimak
Treasury.


4.1.4 The GFMIS deployment included the following steps: (i) Establishment of the Treasury
Single Account (TSA) system; (ii) Development and application of a unified chart of accounts
conforming with International Public Sector Accounting Standards; (iii) Adoption of software to
the Mongolian environment in budget controls, language, and financial management set up; (iv)
Provision of training to government staff; and (v) Assistance with change management. This
whole process demanded extensive dialogue, commitment, and ownership of the government from
senior management to rank-and-file civil servants and all the ministries and agencies to ensure that
the above steps were carried out and synchronized across all entities. The Mongolian financial
management system and its components compare favorably to those in other countries in the East
Asia region, as shown in the table below.




                                                            - 6 -

              Comparison of Regional Public Finance Management System Component

Public Finance Component                Mongolia      Cambodia     Vietnam      Indonesia     Philippines
Operational Treasury Single Account       Yes            No           No           No             No
System
Integrated Chart of Accounts consistent   Yes            No           No           No             No
with International Public Accounting
Standards
Integrated Budget and Treasury System     Yes            No           No           No             No
linked to the Central Bank
Updated Debt Management System            Yes            ...          ...          ...            ...
providing Input to the Integrated
Treasury and Budget System
Treasury System linked with the           Yes            No           No           No             No
Revenue Collection Agency (ies)



4.1.5 The UNCTAD's DMFAS was completed and installed in the Debt Department of MOF in
2001. It has become an indispensable tool for MOF to record and report all public debt (external
and domestic), providing projected disbursements and debt services for all loans as well as
allowing analyses of impact on government debt services due to foreign exchange movements. It
is also the repository for all public loan official records which are also stored in electronic forms in
the debt database. The MOF's DMFAS is the debt management software for all public
debt-related transactions (see Para. 4.2.3). This had proven its value during the negotiations for
the rescheduling of the country's debt to the Russian Federation. The software provided reliable
debt data and generated debt sustainability analyses for the Ministry during its negotiation with
the Russians and contributed to the successful resolution of the country's sovereign debt
rescheduling exercise.

4.1.6 Component Two on VAT (amount: $456,757) contributed to a smooth introduction of a
VAT, a fully functioning VAT administration office in Mongolia, and its improved administration
procedures through advisory assistance, training, and public awareness campaigns. Partly as a
result, VAT receipts have increased from less than 3 percent of GDP in 1997, to over 10 percent
in 2005 (see Para. 4.2.8).

4.1.7 The road to successful completion of the project has been quite long and difficult,
however, with four extensions totaling 51 months and an unsatisfactory rating during the early
stage of the project. The extensive efforts of the government, MOF, and the Bank's task
managers to put the project back on track contributed to its successful completion in 2005. In
order to have a clear and fair assessment of the implementation of the project's activities, it is
useful to distinguish two stages in the life of the project: First Stage: Board approval in 1998 to
2001; and Second Stage: 2002-2005 (to project completion). Both stages are discussed in detail
below.

4.1.8 Project Implementation ­ First Stage ­ 1998-2001. After the Bank Board approval of the
project on June 2, 1998, there was a lengthy delay in the signing and declaration of effectiveness.
A series of events contributed to this delay. First, successive Cabinet changes in the government


                                                   - 7 -

in 1998 delayed the signing of the project until October 8, 1999. Second, the Parliament
ratification of the project only took place on January 31, 1999, after a Cabinet was appointed.
Subsequently, the project was declared effective on February 3, 1999. Further delays occurred,
including the appointment of the Project Coordinator (6) and Treasury Advisor which were only
made a year after Board approval (in June 1999). This affected the overall project implementation
schedule, especially with respect to the financial management component which was at a
standstill. However, the VAT component recorded substantial progress achieved through a
retroactive financing mechanism (Section 4.2. Outputs by Components). Following the June 1999
supervision mission, while recognizing that some of the factors creating delays were beyond the
control of the agencies concerned and the progress made during the June-December 1999 period,
Bank management rated the overall implementation progress of the project as "unsatisfactory." It
deemed that progress so far did not meet the minimum level that should have been accomplished
at that stage in the life of the project. The project was classified by the Bank as a "problem
project" following the unsatisfactory rating. Project supervision was also transferred to the World
Bank Country Office in Ulaanbaatar for greater on-site supervision.

Reference 6. From this experience, project coordinators for all subsequent IDA projects in Mongolia have been and will be
recruited prior to project effectiveness.


4.1.9 The June 1999 supervision mission identified a plan of actions for the project, mostly to
accelerate the implementation of the financial management component (these are described in
Section 4.2 below). In October 1999, this time-bound action plan for implementing the financial
management component of this project, hereafter referred to as the Government Financial
Management Information System (GFMIS) (7) was approved by MOF (Section 4.2 - Output by
Components).The June 1999 supervision mission identified a plan of actions for the project,
mostly to accelerate the implementation of the financial management component (these are
described in details in Section 4.2. Output by Components below). In October 1999, this global
time-bound action plan for implementing the financial management component, hereafter referred
to as the Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS) (7) was approved by
MOF (Section 4.2 Output by Components).

Reference 7. This component was originally called "Treasury Financial Management Information System" (TFMIS) earlier.


4.1.10 The approval of the plan of action laid the foundation for meeting the project's
development objectives and helped initiate some progress in the implementation of the project,
albeit slow. The PSR noted four reasons for the slow progress: (i) inadequate attention by MOF
under the Coalition Government; (ii) delay in launching the bid for the Debt Management
Information System (Section 4.2 Output by Components); (iii) unsuccessful tender for the
GFMIS; (iv) the July 2000 parliamentary elections which resulted in the victory of the opposition
and led to a complete overhaul of MOF; and (v) the two failed bids for the GFMIS in June 2000
(there was only one bidder which was found to be no-responsive) and November 2000 (there
were two bidders which were also found insufficiently responsive to the requirements).

4.1.11 Under the new government, there appeared a new determination to accelerate the project
implementation with the nomination of the new State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and
Economy as the Head of the Fiscal TA Working Group and Manager of the Project (previously,



                                                             - 8 -

the project was led by a Department Director). The Working Group itself was restructured under
the leadership of the State Secretary, with staff from MOF, BOM, the State Audit Board,
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Justice, the Ulaanbaatar City Council, and representatives of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Public Administration Reform Management Group
(PARMG). The Task Forces on Budgeting, Treasury, Accounting, Debt and Aid Management,
and Accounting Training were also re-staffed and reported to the Working Group.

4.1.12 In 2001, there were further changes in the project ­ both in the Bank and within the
government ­ that contributed positively toward its eventual successful implementation. In
March, the management of the project was returned to the Poverty Reduction and Economic
Management Unit (EASPR) in Washington under a new Task Manager. In June, there was a
revision in the institutional arrangements of the project within MOF at the urging of Bank staff:
with the aim to enhance the communications between the PIU staff and MOF and to ensure donor
cooperation on the expectations and requirements of the project and the ministry's needs, the
Minister signed a decree to move the PIU into the Treasury Department. This restructuring was
crucial in building an appropriate institutional framework and established the essential intra- and
inter-institutional linkages between the departments in MOF and other ministries and agencies for
the project to proceed successfully. The PIU staff were made accountable to the Director of the
Treasury Department and then under the overall supervision of the State Secretary and helped the
Treasury to implement the program designed under the project.

4.1.13 The installation of the DMFAS was completed in November 2001 and training for MOF
staff was well underway. The Debt Management Division played an active role in the monitoring
of external debts and estimating scheduled debt service payments. This helped reduce the level of
external arrears on government debts and contributed to timely and up-to-date reports of flows
from external financing sources for budget preparation purposes. The government developed
preliminary accounting and reporting methodologies which allowed for timely and increasingly
accurate data for budget monitoring and execution purposes.

4.1.14 The implementation of the VAT or Component Two of the project was completed: the
project provided support to a functioning VAT administration. The result from this component
reflected in the receipts from VAT collection which have been steadily increasing, from less than 3
percent of GDP in 1997, to over 10 percent in 2005.

4.1.15 Following these actions, the Bank agreed to the government request to extend the closing
date of the project from June 30, 2001 to December 31, 2002, taking into account the 18 month
delay since the project was approved by the Board. The unsatisfactory rating on the achievement
of the project's development objectives of the project was upgraded was upgraded to a
satisfactory rating; as a result, the project was no longer classified as problem and the project was
no longer classified as problem project. However, the implementation progress was still rated
unsatisfactory, due to persistent delay in the financial management component. (8)

Reference 8. PSR No. 8, March 22, 2002.


4.1.16 Project Implementation. Second Stage ­ 2002-2005. Project implementation accelerated.
The new task manager focused her attention and efforts on the implementation of Component


                                                  - 9 -

One (GFMIS) ­ which accounted for 90 percent of the project's funding and the one with the
most delay to date mainly due to the lack of an integrated government information technology
strategy. The government agreed to undertake a gap analysis exercise on the development of
central government-wide IT strategy with assistance from KPMG. The KPMG consultants
worked with staff of MOF and Treasury Department to prepare technical specifications and
bidding documents with a view to successfully implement GFMIS. Close cooperation between
the KPMG team, the government and Bank staff led to agreements on the technical specifications
of the GFMIS components, including the accounting framework and implementation plan,
expenditure procedures and forms modules, functional assessment reports, and review of technical
specifications and assessment reports. Based on the KPMG report, agreement was reached with
the government on the procurement method, a procurement plan, and the phased installation of
the GFMIS system beginning with central government entities, all provinces, and then districts.
The government also agreed on the use of consultants and a timetable for their selection to assist
in the biding and evaluation. An accounting system to be used in the system was also agreed.
The newly created Accounting Department would cooperate with the project to develop and
implement new accounting legislation.

4.1.17 Since the December 2002 extension, the project proceeded well with important activities,
beginning with the installation of the GFMIS system in government entities. Unfortunately, there
were some unforeseen technical complications and the delay in finalizing a unified Chart of
Accounts (COA). At issue was the need to ensure that the new COA be consistent with the
budget accounts and the treasury, with some strong resistance to move to a "standardized" COA.
A new implementation plan was prepared with a revised schedule following the December 2003
supervision mission. Given the progress made and the revised implementation plan, the Bank
agreed to another extension of the closure of the project to December 31, 2003.

4.1.18 To avoid the experience of the previous two biddings, Bank staff intensified their
supervision, with three back-to-back supervision missions in December 2002, January and March
2003, to ensure that the government and the PIU were ready to undertake the large procurement
exercise associated with the GFMIS. The missions urged the authorities to plan and allocate
adequate staff resources to the bidding and bid evaluation process and to adhere to the timetable
in the updated procurement plan. This time, there was more interest with 21 companies
expressing their desire to provide the government with a GFMIS. The first-stage of the third
bidding round for the GFMIS was launched in September 2002 with 13 companies (of the 21
ones) participating in the pre-bid meeting. The second bidding stage was conducted in early 2003
with bids closing on March 3, 2003. The bid evaluation report was accepted by IDA in April
2003. Contract negotiations were held and concluded on May 9, 2003 with IBM/Freebalance
from Canada. The contract was awarded in June 2003, marking an important milestone in the life
of this component.

4.1.19 The training on treasury accounting methodology, instructions on the Chart of Accounts
for MOF's Treasury Department were undertaken on January 15, 2003. On March 31, 2003, the
Minister of Finance approved the state and aimag budget accounting policy, chart of accounts,
accounting guidelines, guidelines and forms for preparation of financial statements to be
implemented by the central and aimag treasury offices. The government further agreed with the



                                               - 10 -

Bank to retire the interim Treasury system once GFMIS implementation was complete and the
Bank would finance additional consultants to strengthen MOF's IT capacity.

4.1.20 The PSR of November 14, 2003 reported for the first time that the GFMIS component
was on schedule. Bank staff continued to monitor the activities being implemented to ensure the
timeliness of all activities agreed with the government and the consultants. In the next two years,
until the project closed on September 30, 2005, the implementation of this component continued
to require close attention from the government and Bank staff.

4.1.21 The nature of the implementation had changed toward ensuring reasonable progress in
on-going activities, especially the fulfilling of the contract for GFMIS and steps and measures in
better coordination, interaction, consistency and synchronization among the on-going activities
related to the eventual roll-out of the GFMIS. During 2004, efforts were focused on the timely
finalization of the Chart of Accounts so that it was ready for the IBM project team to be
incorporated into the software being developed. Given the eventual change in financial
management system, the Bank urged that change management efforts be intensified as there was
little understanding of the GFMIS implementation in MOF and the required process changes in
Treasury with the implementation of a modern integrated financial management system.

4.1.22 The GFMIS system went live on January 3, 2005 and the government signed the
Operational Acceptance Certificate on April 15, 2005. The system is now deployed in MOF's
Treasury Department and all the regional treasuries, working at real time with all sites connected
on-line to MOF. This makes Mongolia the only country in the East Asia Region to have such a
working GPMIS covering all central and regional government treasuries. All budget expenditures
are currently being executed through the system. The complete implementation of the GFMIS
has been an important milestone in the government's program crowning Mongolia's effort in
improving public financial management. According to calculations by MOF's Treasury
Department, the government has saved Togs. 4 billion in 2005 (US$ 3.4 million) thanks to
improved financial controls instituted under the GFMIS system. These savings are expected to be
maintained over the years. It is expected that the total system costs will be recovered in only 1.5
years.

4.1.23 As a measure of success of the GFMIS, the World Bank has conducted an assessment of
this system and preliminary findings show that subject to certain configuration modifications, the
Bank shall be able to rely on this system for Bank portfolio management. (9)

Reference 9. World Bank, Government of Mongolia: Financial Management Assessment of the Government Financial
Management Information System in the Context of Reliance on Country Systems for Bank Portfolio Management, December 2,
2005.


4.1.24 Meanwhile, the installation and consolidation of all government debt data into the DMFAS
was completed in May 2002. All outstanding government debt as of December 2001 were
reconciled with creditors. All scheduled training for staff working on new debt system was
undertaken, including data entry, validation of real transactions, and report and monitoring
activities.




                                                         - 11 -

4.1.25 GFMIS and DMFAS will provide Mongolia with the necessary tools for effective
dissemination of information pertaining to public finance, thereby helping to improve Mongolia's
ratings vis-à-vis international and regional budget execution and reporting benchmarks.

4.1.26 The orderly change in Bank's Task Manager in 2004 helped to ensure continuity and the
new TM provided his undivided attention toward achieving an effective implementation of the
project in its final stage.

4.1.27 Extensions: The initial closing date of the project was June 30, 2001; extended first to
December 31, 2002, then to December 31, 2003; then to December 31, 2004. These extensions
were made due mostly to implementation delays of the GFMIS component (discussed in details
above). The project was closed on September 30, 2005.

4.1.28 After a long period of fiduciary non-compliance, the government complied with all
covenants under the credit. In December 2000, the project financed an audit firm (through
competitive bidding) to prepare all the outstanding audits of IDA projects as of June 30, 1999,
including this project; the audit reports thus prepared were submitted to IDA. Another audit
specific for the project was completed in November 2002 and a post procurement review of the
project's contracts (with no discrepancies) was finalized, submitted to and certified by IDA.

4.1.29 Project disbursement and funds flow arrangements. There was a special account which
has been maintained in accordance with the DCA and managed by the project coordinator.
Disbursement arrangements were working smoothly and provided smooth support to the project
implementation. The PIU prepared a detailed monthly progress report which included a financial
statement by month, a statement on the special account; and the output monitoring report for the
components of the project. These are in the project's files and filed in IRIS.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 The outputs by components are described in details below.

Component 1. Financial Management System

4.2.2 This component consisted of two activities with two distinct outputs. GFMIS or
Government Financial Management Information System and DMFAS or Debt Management and
Financial Analysis System. Both systems are fully operational and help strengthen procedures for
budget execution, cash management, and revenue and expenditure management, enhancing
transparency and fiscal discipline.

4.2.3 The DMFAS system has been operational since 2001 and is currently maintained by eight
staff in MOF's Debt Department. DMFAS records all government debts outstanding, loan
contracts or agreements with lending terms. The system will calculate disbursements, principal
and interest payments (debt services), record debt service payments, identify loans in arrears and
calculate arrears, overdues and penalty interests, provide present value of the debt stock. MOF
staff are able to produce reports on demand for monitoring, analytical and statistical purposes in
standard forms or user-defined reports. The system is also capable of projecting disbursements



                                                 - 12 -

and debt services (twice a year) based on outstanding and current commitments.

4.2.4 The GFMIS system has been fully functional for a whole year since it commenced
operations in January 2005. The system's functionality includes (i) controls, (ii) appropriations;
(iii) general ledger; (iv) expenditures and payments; (v) assets; (vi) purchasing; (vii) revenue
management; (viii) crystal reports. It was implemented by IBM Canada Ltd with its
subcontractors FreeBalance Canada which is application software provider and MCS Mongolia as
network and hardware provider which entered into the contract in June 2003. GFMIS has it own
Steering Committee which was established in November 2003. The Committee was chaired by
MOF's State Secretary; and its membership included directors of Fiscal Policy and Coordination
Department, Treasury Department, and Accounting Policy and Methodology Department. The
Steering Committee oversaw the implementation of the GFMIS and all related issues with
meetings held every week to monitor the progress of the project. Specific working groups were
also established for specific sub-components of the GFMIS. The Steering Committee and the
working groups greatly accelerated the implementation in 2004 and 2005 in expediting in a timely
manner any issues which arose in the process through its weekly meetings. For example, issues
with instability in wireless connection or problems with connectivity, proper fields for inputs in the
Mongolian language.

4.2.5 GFMIS manages 50,000 line items for the budget. From the server in MOF, the system
operates on real time with 171 concurrent users and currently processes 3,000 transactions daily.
(10) The Network Chart is as follows:

                           Implementation of the GFMIS Network
                           Entity connecting using VSAT or Fiber Optic


                                                    MOF
                                           GFMIS SERVER




    13 Ministries                 21 AIMAGS                 UB City Treasury   9 District Treasuries




Reference 10. As reported by the GFMIS team to the ICR mission in January.



4.2.6 On January 1, 2006, Mongolia introduced full financial commitment accounting within
GFMIS after the project closed in September 2005, marking another important milestone towards
the government's objective of improving financial management in Mongolia and further enhancing
the sustainability of this component of the project. Full financial commitment accounting will
contribute to further improve cash management and expenditure planning. For the first time, the



                                                        - 13 -

Mongolian Government could fully reconcile the TSA balance with checks issued by the Treasury
Department, as the fiscal year closed on December 31, 2005. The previous Treasury-Bank of
Mongolia interface (BUMIS) system has been abolished. Since the closure of the project, the
government has earmarked its own budget for the GFMIS maintenance expenses; the maintenance
cost of the system, estimated at $371,000.00 per year, is added as an additional line item. This
fact further ensures the sustainability of the project.

4.2.7 Training for GFMIS ­ an important sub-component ­ began soon after the contract was
signed. Manuals in Mongolian were done in November 2003. Training courses were organized
and delivered by the contractor in 2004 and 2005 for the super users of the Central Treasury and
numerous end user trainings were conducted by the super users for regional Treasury staff,
including the City of Ulaanbaatar and its districts, and the 21 airmags in the operation of the
system. At the beginning of the implementation, there was a variety of difficulties during the
learning-by-doing period by staff managing the system within each budget unit due to their
unfamiliarity and the need for fine-tuning during the application period. However, toward the end
of 2005, the system reported good progress toward smooth operations by all users following
extensive training to operate the system.

Project Component 2: Introduction of the VAT

4.2.8 This component was successfully implemented on time with support of the project.
Activities implemented under this included: (i) Information system to support the VAT; (ii) five
manuals were published and disseminated to the taxpayers as part of the Tax payers' Awareness
Campaign; (iii) Training and seminars conducted for all potential taxpayers and tax inspectors
from 21 airmags and 9 districts in Ulaanbaatar City; (iv) Mobile training center established and
equipped with training facilities. Advisory services for this component included a short-term
taxpayer services advisor, an audit advisor, a computer programming advisor; a customs advisor,
and a VAT implementation advisor, for the General Department of National Taxation (GDNT).
Two study tours were organized for tax officials to learn on the planning and implementation of
VAT, the operation of deferral and refund mechanisms and the operational procedures for VAT,
focusing on audit and collection enforcement.

4.2.9 The VAT administration office is fully operational office and the VAT software system
performs the following functions: (i) administration; (ii) assessment; (iii) collection; and (iv)
refunds. The VAT has contributed revenues to the budget for the past five years, from less than 3
percent in 1997-98 to over 10 percent in 2004-5. The public awareness campaign was done
successfully and included the following: manuals on VAT for tax payers and VAT programs
broadcast on radio and televisions which helped to improve the understanding and the VAT
concept among the population who rely mainly on the media for learning and acquiring new
knowledge.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1. Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                 - 14 -

4.4.1. Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. The project's activities have achieved some far-reaching immediate institutional impacts,
some of which have contributing positively to the budgetary process of the country. Further
medium and long term positive effects are being realized across all government ministries and
agencies as the GFMIS continues to be fine-tuned. DMFAS continues to contribute to the debt
management in the MOF. The Government has now requested the Bank to assist in the roll-out
of GFMIS to large budget entities and districts (soums).

4.5.2. A new Accounting Department was created in MOF following the passage of the new
Accounting Law by the Parliament on December 13, 2001. Following the passage of the new
accounting law by Parliament, the project helped this Department to standardize accounting
practices across the government.

4.5.3. A Debt Management Department was created which now plays an active role in the
formulation of the overall macroeconomic aggregates needed for budget preparation purposes.
Particularly this division is able to track and update debt payment schedules which has contributed
to a reduction in the level of government external arrears. The Department is supported by the
installation of the Debt Management and Information System which houses all external public
debt.

4.5.4. The VAT introduction has already made significant contribution to the budget with the
2005 share in total revenue reached over 10 percent (see Paras. 4.2.8-4.2.9).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. The overall political environment adversely affected the project at the beginning of its
implementation. Numerous changes in the Cabinet and senior managers in MOF delayed the
project start-up.

5.1.2. The lack of technical skills and experience in IT and technical services to undertake such a
challenging task of establishing an extensive government financial management system were
daunting for MOF. Because the GFMIS affected the way of doing business for every ministry and
agency in the government, MOF was not equipped at the beginning to coordinate and inform and
convince all entities the changes.

5.1.3. The technical quality level of MOF for supervision and monitoring was not immediately
under the control of the government in the short term. There was also a lack of experience in the
preparation of bidding documents and the whole bidding process itself was a challenge for MOF
staff.




                                                     - 15 -

5.1.4. The interests of the international bidders in this project were outside MOF's control.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. Technical training programs to meet the need of the various institutions were prepared
with the support of the government. The project implementation benefited from the good
working relationship between the government officials and Bank staff. The strong interest and
commitment of MOF and its senior officials, during the second stage of the project (as discussed
above) facilitated the implementation of the project and allowed the PIU to be an effective
instrument working with the Treasury Department in overseeing the project to its successful end.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1. The monitoring and reporting activities which were under the implementing agency
control were carried out diligently and help facilitate the supervision of the project. Timely
decisions on the activities of the project were under the control of the senior officials responsible
for the project and contribute to the speedy solutions needed for the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1. The amount of the credit was approved by the Board at SDR 3.8 million (US$5.0 million
equivalent). At the ICR writing, the project was fully disbursed (US$ 5,339,776 equivalent). (11)

Reference 11. A minute amount (SDR 7,027.10) was cancelled at the closure of the project.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1. The overall project sustainability is rated "highly likely" by the ICR. The project met its
original objectives and has instituted profound and extensive changes in the way which the
government does business especially through the Component One with the operation of the
GFMIS. The DMFAS and Component Two on VAT have also established an efficient process
for the government to better manage and monitor debt services on the expenditure side and to
increase collection for the budget on the revenue side. Indeed, the project has increased the
efficiency and accountability of the government as well as the transparency of the budgetary
process through the operations of the GFMIS and the DMFAS (paras. Nos. 4.2.2 ­ 4.2.7). The
introduction of the VAT has also helped establishing a more effective, non-distortive system of
public revenue mobilization with some successful and concrete results (paras, Nos. 4.2.8 - 4.2.9).

6.1.2. Another factor that supports the sustainability of the activities funded by the project was
the willingness of the government to finance the maintenance costs of the GFMIS from its own
budget funding from the year 2006 onwards. In addition, the Government requested the Bank to
assist with the roll-out of GFMIS to large budget entities and soums.

6.1.3. Further, the government has terminated the parallel program that existed before the
GFMIS went live in January 2005. There was no turning back to the former program and showed



                                                       - 16 -

the commitment of the government and especially MOF to ensure that the new system will be the
system that will be sustained from this time onward.

6.1.4 The successful implementation of the GFMIS has led to a better control and monitoring of
the budget by MOF, contributing to the first recorded surplus for 2005 after so many years of
budget deficits in Mongolia.

6.1.5. The institutional changes combined with the effective operations of the above financial
management system by government staff have contributed to a lasting change for the better in the
past year and the achievements supported by the Fiscal TA project will continue to bring further
benefits to the public sector management in the years to come.

6.1.6 Last but not least, the acceptance of the users of the GFMIS system constitutes a solid
foundation for the successful implementation of the system and a warranty for the sustainability of
the project's development objective (paras. Nos. 4.1.2 ­ 4.1.3).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. Another project to further support the public sector was the Economic Capacity Building
Technical Assistance (ECTAC) Project which assists in the design and implementation of a public
sector management reform program aimed at improving budgetary and public expenditure
management systems and processes; and civil service and public administration performance.
Specifically, it will focus on assisting the government implement a medium term expenditure
framework at the central and agency level, improve budget execution through the full roll out of
the GFMIS system throughout government, and assist in refining the overall legal framework for
procurement. This project also seeks to streamline and strengthen institutional arrangements and
requisite capacity for civil service management, financing, coordination and accountability.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1. The preparation for the lending activity was rated satisfactory. The Bank responded
timely to the needs of the Mongolian government and identified and formulated priority activities
in the public sector management through the preparation of this operation.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1. The Bank supervision effort was uneven at the beginning of the implementation stage,
with the technical requirements of the IT component and compounded by the unstable political
environment after the project was approved. While it identified the issues and the problems facing
the project supervision, the lack of a government counterpart hampered the supervision and staff
efforts to correct the situation, despite the decision to move the supervision responsibility to the
field.

7.2.2. However, once the political environment was secured, Bank staff ­ the last two task



                                                  - 17 -

managers ­ actively worked with government counterparts to bring the project back on track and
eventually to a successful completion. Bank staff maintained a close working relationship with
the government and their counterparts, contributing to an overall effective supervision.

7.2.3. The project required a great deal of expertise and specialized skills in many activities
undertaken. The Bank needed to mobilize a large array of specialized staff to address the
complexity of the technical assistance called for by the project and supervision became critical to
ensure that the project make progress while staying on track.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The overall Bank performance was rated satisfactory with timely response to the need of
the client country and with quality supervision of the project once the project was brought back
on track. Bank staff efforts were hampered at the beginning of the implementation due to the
unstable political environment and the need for specialized skills to properly supervise the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1. The government played an active role in the project with the preparation of the Public
Reform Strategy and the needed implementation actions through this project to carry out this
plan.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1. Once the political uncertainty cleared, the government implementation performance was
satisfactory with hand-on supervision and monitoring and good coordination with Bank staff to
address emerging issues effectively to carry out the project to its successful completion.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1. The Treasury Department of the MOF, where the project was attached in the second stage
of the project implementation, fulfilled well its responsibilities in monitoring and reporting,
allowing for better management and implementation of the project, facilitating the Bank's
supervision activities. However, there was issues with coordination and directions at the first
stage of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1. The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory, with the qualification for the
first stage of the project implementation. The government, especially MOF, has brought the
project to a successful closure in a challenging transition environment, especially with weak
technical skills in the concerned institutions. Government officials have shown the ability to learn
and to develop their skills and knowledge toward solving the difficulties that emerged during
different stages in the implementation of this project, especially in its IT component, from
procurement processes to complex technical decisions for the system to operate successfully in
Mongolia's harsh weather environment.          The implementing agencies performed well their



                                                - 18 -

monitoring and reporting, thus allowing for effective supervision of the project and contributing
to advance the transparency and public sector development objective of the project overall.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1.     The major lessons are:

·        A stable political environment is a prerequisite for the implementation of a project with
technical assistance in nature.
·        It is important to have strong ownership of the project by the government and the
attention of MOF senior management for the project's monitoring and coordinating activities. In
Mongolia, this has been demonstrated by the willingness of MOF to switch off the parallel system
and commit to the GFMIS as their only system for budget management and monitoring.
·        A suitable and country-specific time frame needs to be factored in the preparation for and
the implementation of institutional-building activities and technical assistance components,
especially in countries with weak civil service. Discounting the challenge of an unstable political
environment, the time actually taken to introduce fundamental changes in the Treasury system and
institutional building is most likely longer than what was originally envisaged, especially in
planning similar projects with extensive technical components.
·        Appropriate amount of supervision and monitoring from Bank staff contributing towards
the achievement of the project, as shown in the second stage of implementation. The relevant
importance of these activities could not be understated in a project of this nature.
·        Training is an important requirement in a project of this nature and no matter how
extensive the training plan is, there are always needs for more. Thus training budget should
receive priority in such technical assistance project, especially with knowledge transfer and
introduction of IT and new ways of doing business.
·        Criteria for the evaluation of a training program would need to be designed to facilitate the
assessment of its results and contribution to the capacity building activities of the project.
·        As with any system with specialized knowledge and skills, staff who receive training in
these skills would be enticed by new opportunities elsewhere and would present a risk to the
sustainability of the activity. It is advisable to establish a system of incentives in order to retain
skilled staff for the operation of the system.
·        For IT-related project, care should be taken to determine the level of readiness of the
country to accept this type of technical project which consists of brand new technical know-how
and instruments which require the decision-makers to learn the new system, to trust it and to
grow with it.
·        With projects having "turnkey implementation" there is a high risk in the implementation
of the system. Such systems often have glitches as they are implemented with a need for active
supervision once the new systems are deployed. Such projects should therefore not be close
immediately after system deployment, but it would be advisable to factor in a "post
implementation supervision" time to ensure that post-deployment problems be resolved.
·        For "turnkey projects," close attention should be paid to the drafting of the Terms of
Reference -- with more details needed up-front than in non-turn-key projects -- for consultants
and consulting firms to agree upon and ensure the presence of specific experts during the contract
implementation stage.



                                                   - 19 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                                             MONGOLIA
                    FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT PROJECT
                                        Credit No. 3081 MOG

               PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE

Project data:

Approval date: October 10, 1998
Effective date: February 3, 1999
Credit amount: SDR 3.8 Million (original estimate: US$5.0 Million, actual disbursements: US$5.3 Million)
Project closing date: September 30, 2005
Project implementation agency: Ministry of Finance (MOF)

Development Objective

The objectives of the Fiscal TA Project are to support the Mongolian Government's Public
administration reform and increase the efficiency and accountability of public administration by: (i)
establishing a transparent core government financial system; (ii) improving governmental
accounting practices and procedures; and (iii) setting up a more effective system of governmental
revenue mobilization through the introduction of a value added tax on goods and services.

The Fiscal TA Project is a part of the comprehensive Government Public Sector Reform Agenda
supported by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Asian Development
Bank. The Public Sector Management and Finance Law (PSMFL) that underpins the public
administration reforms was passed by the Parliament in the spring of 2002.

Project components

The project consists of the following two components:

1. Government financial management system component; and
2. Value added tax (VAT) administration component.

The objective of the Governmental financial management system will be achieved through:

(i) Provision of advisory services, training and study visits abroad in respect of government
accounting system principles and practices, treasury, debt and cash management, auditing,
management skills and related disciplines.




                                                 - 20 -

(ii) Design of a fully functional and automated debt, cash and treasury management system and
government accounting system.

(iii) Provision of (a) computer hardware and software equipment and (b) related office materials
required for carrying out each of the foregoing including any necessary operational technical
training and end-user support.

The Governmental financial management system consists of establishment of the following two
computerized systems:

     1.1. Debt management system; and
     1.2. Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS) which includes new
     Government accounting practices and procedures.

Achievement of development objectives.

The Fiscal TA project has met its development objectives with full disbursement of the Credit,
although it has had significant delays in its implementation. For the project which requires big
institutional changes and technical and functional capacity as well as infrastructure support may
not be able to implement for 3 years unless all these supporting preconditions are in place.

Overall, with the full support of the Government of Mongolia and the World Bank, the
implementation of the Fiscal TA was highly satisfactory, especially with regards to the Integrated
financial management system which required strong technical and functional capacity as well as
infrastructure support in the country.

Disbursement arrangements were working smoothly and provided sound support to the project
implementation.

Lessons learned

 The delay in the project implementation was associated with following main factors. Initial
project commencement was delayed for 18 months. According to initial design, the project has to
be commenced in 1998 and completed by June 30, 2001. In addition to that there were significant
delays on tender processing for the GFMIS having failed twice in year 2000 and 2001. All
together the tender process for this component took 3 years and its implementation took over 1.5
year with difficulties in changing business processes and building technical and human capacity to
operate the system.

Achievement of outputs by components and subcomponents

1. Government financial management system component

Debt management financial analysis system (DMFAS). Based on the IMF and World Bank
advice the Debt Management Division was established within the Treasury department with the



                                                - 21 -

purpose to manage public sector debts under the direction of the Finance Minister. Previously,
every Sector Minister had the authority to sign on Public debt and there were no central control
and no control over the maintenance of loan records.

Supplier for supply, installation and customization of Debt management system was selected
through international competitive bidding (ICB), and finally UNCTAD/GATT won in the tender
and concluded its contract with the Government of Mongolia.

Best international practice for debt management analysis is embedded in this software as
requested in the Technical specifications. As specified in the tender document all hardware and
software are fully supplied, installed and operational since 2002. Debt management staff also has
had international and local trainings for use of the system.

Data load into DMFAS has been completed with the reconciliation of outstanding balances of
donor loans. All data on lending loans were collected and loaded in the system.
The DMFAS was operationally accepted on May 9, 2002 with great effort from the staff of the
Debt Management Division of the MOF and the UNCTAD Consultants.

The Debt Management Division of the MOF is using full functionality of the DMFAS for
recording, reporting and analysis of Government external and domestic borrowing and lending.
The system is able to produce all management reports for debt management and generate the
estimated impacts of the changes in exchange rates and terms and conditions of the borrowing and
lending and project the cash flows as well.

Lessons learned. It was the first international IT project at the MOF therefore the MOF staff
learned about installation and configuration and customization of the computerized system while
working with the international consultants.

In terms of network infrastructure, it was easy to implement the project because hardware and
software were installed and configured only at the MOF.

However data collections for loans especially on-lending loans were very difficult. It is better to
be prepared prior to the system implementation.

Government Financial Management Information System. Following is a series of
interdependent activities implemented under this component.

Treasury: The IMF FAD mission prepared a detailed proposal on treasury reorganization in July
1999. The MOF approved a new structure for establishing a new Treasury Department
incorporating most of the suggestions of the IMF FAD mission. Management was appointed and
new staff recruited. IMF Treasury Advisor conducted a series of training seminars for the treasury
staff. The system of revenue accounting for the customs and taxation was reviewed. The MOF
implemented the Single Treasury Account by stages. All Central Government accounts for Budget
entities in commercial banks closed and transferred to the Bank of Mongolia (BOM). In light of
establishment of Single Treasury Account, new rules and regulations were issued to improve cash



                                                 - 22 -

management and budget executions. These institutional changes were important preconditions of
the computerized integrated system and it took a lot of time.

Cash Management: The training on cash management system was conducted. Annual cash
management plan is developed with the Fiscal Policy and Treasury Department within its Debt
management section. A system of monthly and weekly cash projection             was established as
recommended by the IMF.

Accounting Cadre: With regards to Public Expenditure Management, the Parliament approved a
Provision whereby the recruitment and dismissal of all Chief Accountants in all level of Budget
Governors will be made with the consensus of the Central Treasury.

Government Accounting: The Chart of Accounts (COA) and the Government accounting
methodology including presentation of Government financial statements which were prepared and
finalized in accordance with International Accounting Standards by the Government Accounting
Advisor G. Oyungerel and submitted to the MOF for its approval. The COA was approved by the
MOF's Minister Order of December 18, 2000 to be tested on the trial basis at the Treasury
Department of the MOF (central budget level) and the Government Building No.2 (budget entity
level). It was tested on the interim software, which was developed by IT Consultant Sh.
Oyunbaatar for future use in the GFMIS. As result of successful test, in 2003 the final COA and
accounting methodology approved by the Minister's order and which became the main CAO for
future GFMIS data base customization.

Training: Training Consultant funded by UNDP Mr. S. Fletcher prepared "The National Strategy
for Public Sector Accountants" to cater for training of all accountants and the strategy for
establishment of a sustainable institution for training of the accountants. Based on the above
report Training Coordinator D. Bayasgalan prepared the detailed proposal for training of public
sector accountants throughout Mongolia. Subject to the approval by the MOF of the newly
developed COA its accounting methodology the Fiscal TA project planned to launch a massive
public accountants training program covering all budget entities starting from beginning 2001.

From 22 January to 5 February 2000 a group of officials from the MOF /BOM went on a study
tour to the Philippines, Malaysia, and Nepal to study cash management, government accounting
practices and revenue and expenditure management.         A group of MOF staff also went to
Kazakhstan to study Government financial management information system.

The project sponsored a business trip for government officials to attend the Annual International
Conference on `New Developments in Government Financial Management held in Miami, Florida,
USA, during March 27-31, 2000.

The GFMIS: The capacity-building priorities under the Fiscal TA project are to establish a strong
treasury management system, to strengthen budget discipline, expenditure control, risk
management, and comprehensive fiscal reporting.

Tender documents for Supply, installation and customization of financial management information
system have been prepared by international consultants with collaboration of local consultants.


                                              - 23 -

However in 2000, 2001 two tenders failed to achieve their objectives and re-tendering process
took another one year. The last tender document was prepared by consultants from Bearing Point
KPMG, USA and finally the IBM Canada won in this tender and entered into a contract in June
2003 with the MOF.

The contract amount for the GFMIS project was US$ 5. 1 Million and it was co-financed from
two projects, 67.9 % of the contract amount from Fiscal TA project and the remaining amount
from the ECTAC project.

Specification of hardware and network was prepared, supplied and installed by the MCS
Mongolia, a subcontractor of the IBM Canada. The Financial Management Software
(FreeBalance efinancials) was supplied, installed and customized by FreeBalance Inc, Canada a
subcontractor of the IBM. Super user and end user trainings were conducted in various stages.
The system has been operational since January 03, 2005. Now all treasury transactions are going
through the GFMIS system, BUMIS (previous in house developed system) is fully migrated, and
comprehensive fiscal reports are produced on a monthly basis in consolidated and in detailed
forms.    Budget control is improved because of automated expenditure control and budget
discipline forced by the GFMIS. 2005 fiscal year budget balance is in surplus which is first time in
Mongolia government's budget is in surplus and the Finance Minister announced it as an outcome
generated by the new GFMIS.

The MOF is still working on extending the use of the system and rationalizing the system
operations to increase the efficiency gains.

Task team leader from the World Bank also provided great support in the project
implementations, sharing our problems during hard time of implementation and expressed his
continued support in future. We are proud of you being part of our team.

Lessons learned. Establishment of Treasury offices and especially Single Treasury Account are
the most important preconditions for integrated financial management information system.
The GFMIS implementation required re-engineering of business processes to be fit standard
integrated accounting software requirements. It took a couple of months to change current
business processes and reach an understanding and agreement on the new business requirements.
As a result of presentations by the group, who visited to see the implementation of Government
financial management information system in Kazakhstan, the project Steering committee agreed
and made most timely progressive decisions on project implementations, which accelerated the
project's implementation. User training as initially planned was not sufficient and system
operations required much more trainings for end users.

In the first few months we had all sort of failures, problems and mistakes because the system was
installed throughout the country and distance network was created for the first time in Mongolia.
Also people including team members were new to the system.               But as result of strong
commitment and support provided by the MOF management specially the State Secretary and the
Director of Central Treasury to implement the system and tremendous hard effort of central and
regional treasury staff and IT staff including Angar, Oyunbaatar, Altangerel, Demid the project



                                                - 24 -

has achieved the intended objectives. The PIU would like to say "thank you" to the MOF and
regional treasury staff for really hard work and great results. We fully recognize it was a difficult
time with lots of distractions. We are very happy that people were able to keep focused on getting
the job done and that they turned in such great results. Obviously, all those things are important to
continue in coming years, to keep the operations of the system stable.

2. Value added tax (VAT) administration component.

Introduced and improved VAT tax administration procedures, particularly the VAT
administration is fully functioning with the advisory assistance and training support provided
under the Fiscal TA project.

The following activities were implemented under this component.
·       An information system to support the VAT has been developed,
·       Under tax payers Awareness Campaign five manuals have been developed and
disseminated to the taxpayers,
·       Training and seminars were conducted for all potential taxpayers and tax inspectors
including from 21 Aimaks and 9 districts of Ulaanbaatar city,
·       Established mobile training center equipped with the three wheel drive vehicles and
training facilities.




                                               - 25 -

Conclusion

 Government financial management information system: Finally, Fiscal TA project has achieved
its objectives in implementing the GFMIS which has improved budget execution, control and
reporting. This is a centralized and fully integrated system hence monthly budget reports of the
General government are available at the Central Treasury in the first week of the next month.
Daily cash balance of the Single Treasury account is available for the management. Budget
expenditure control has been improved significantly, having an automatic system control on
expense transactions against monthly financial budget.

Government accounting: Under this project new uniform COA and government accounting
procedures and financial reporting forms have been developed and implemented in accordance
with International Accounting Standards. The uniform COAs are used as basic database table in
the GFMIS.

Debt management system: As result of implementation of the DMFAS, the public sector debt
management has improved significantly. The system produces timely and reliable reports by
different categories, time frame and donors. Impacts of exchange rate changes are reflected
immediately and projections of external sources, repayment schedule are made and reported
through this system. It enables production of borrowing requirements in different options
depending on lending agencies' terms and conditions and borrowing currencies as well.

Improved VAT administration: Fiscal TA project also made great contribution in the VAT
implementation and the VAT is one of the biggest components in total government taxes and it
was estimated at 57.1 billion tug in 2004 or 10.7% of total tax revenues. Also VAT refunding
arrangements are implemented under this project.




                                               - 26 -

                               STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES DETAILS
                     For the periods ended 30 November 2005 and 31 December 2004
                     This statement is presented in USD and SDR for the disbursements from IDA loan.

                                                       Current           Previous                Cumulative total
                                                         Period              Year                      Actual
 Category (1) - Goods                                       USD               USD            USD                 USD

 Subprojects' name
  SOE Procedures:
      VAT implementation                                                275,864.89        275,864.89            211,531.43
      Governmental Financial                           8,614.55         114,539.66        123,154.21             93,604.29
Management
      Subtotal of SOE procedures                       8,614.55         390,404.55        399,019.10            305,135.72
 Direct payment:
      Governmental Financial                                    -                       3,911,654.49          2,722,605.57
Management                                                            3,911,654.49
 Sub-total of Goods                                    8,614.55       4,302,059.04      4,310,673.59          3,027,741.29
 Category (2) - Consultants service:                            -
 Subprojects' name
    VAT implementation                                          -        69,500.00            69,500.00           53,519.55

    Governmental Financial Management                  110,097.08       369,372.56           479,469.64          338,125.86

    PIU's expenses                                      18,567.62       254,536.08           273,103.70          208,133.97

 Subtotal of Consultants' services                  128,664.70          693,408.64        822,073.34            599,779.38
 Category (3) - Training:
 Subprojects' name
    VAT implementation                                                  111,392.80        111,392.80             84,047.24
    Governmental Financial Management                                    95,280.25          95,280.25            71,835.36
 Sub-total of Training                                          -       206,673.05        206,673.05            155,882.60
    Refining of the PPF                                         -            313.54              313.54              225.48

    Currency difference losses                                  -                 -                   -           9,344.15
 TOTAL                                              137,279.25        5,202,454.27      5,339,733.52          3,792,972.90
 SUMMARY BY SUBPROJECTS
   VAT Implementation                                           -       456,757.69        456,757.69            349,098.22
   Governmental Financial Management                118,711.63       4,490,8746.96      4,609,558.59          3,226,171.08
   PIU's Costs                                        18,567.62         254,536.08        273,103.70            208,133.97
   Refunding of the PPF                                         -           313.54             313.54               225.48
   Currency difference losses                                   -                 -                   -           9,334.15
 TOTAL                                              137,379.25        5,202,454.27      5,339,733.52          3,792,972.90

*The amount of SDR 9,344.15 represents the exchange fluctuation between the currency rate of Special Account (USD) from
the time of the initial deposit
into the Special Account to the time of recovery of the used amount.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information




                                                             - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                          Outcome / Impact Indicators:

Project Development Output Indicators/Results                  Impacts of Project Activities
Objectives
- Component 1. Increased the efficiency and accountability of government through designing and implementing
integrated government financial management information system (GFMIS) and a debt financial management
information system (DFMIS)
- Improved government New Government Financial                 - Real time transfer of revenues in central and local
financial management Management Information System             treasury account
with the GFMIS          [GFMIS] established and operational    - Real time budget execution reports prepared and
                        in 2005 on a real time basis.          commitment controls are being generated by GFMIS
                        * Monthly budget reports are           - Budget units' monthly reports are on time and accurate
                        available at the Central Treasury in   - Budget expenditure controls have been made more
                        the first week of the next month.      effective, even on a monthly basis.
                        * Daily cash balance of the Treasury
                        Single account is available for the
                        MOF senior management.
- Established debt      - DMFAS system installed and           - Regular reporting allows MOF to better monitor
financial management operational in the MOF's Debt             external debt of the country.
with the DMFAS          Department. Debt reports are           - Provided effective input and assistance in the debt
                        prepared on a regular basis enabling   rescheduling negotiations with Russia.
                        the MOF to monitor debt service, and   - Provide analyses in the debt situation of the country
                        perform debt analyses.                 - Provide debt sustainability analyses.
- Component 2
Implementation of the    Activities included:                  The VAT has contributed an increasing share of revenues
VAT by improving the     (i) Information system to support     to the budget for the past five years, from less than 3
tax administration and the VAT;                                percent in 1997-98 to over 10 percent in 2004-5.
by informing tax         (ii) Five manuals published and       The public awareness campaign was done successfully
payers on the            disseminated to the taxpayers as
introduction of this tax part of the Tax payers' Awareness
                         Campaign;
                         (iii) Training and seminars for all
                         potential taxpayers and tax
                         inspectors from 21 airmags and 9
                         districts in Ulaanbaatar City;
                        (iv) Mobile training center
                        established and equipped with
                        training facilities.

                        The VAT administration office is
                        fully operational and the VAT
                        software system performs the
                        following functions:
                        (i) administration;
                        (ii) assessment;
                        (iii) collection; and
                        (iv) refunds.




                                                       - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                      Appraisal        Actual/       Percentage
                  Project Cost by Component                           Estimate          Latest             of
                                                                                       Estimate       Appraisal
A. Government Financial Management                                       4.49             4.61           102.7
A.1 Advisory Services: Treasury, Government accounting                   0.69
A.2 Training and study tours                                             0.95
A.3 Equipment and software for Treasury and Debt                         0.65
Management Systems
A.4 Equipment and software for government accounting                     2.20
system


B. VAT Introduction                                                      0.55             0.46            83.6
B.1 Short-term Advisors: taxpayer services, audit, computer              0.27
programming
B.2 Study Tours                                                          0.07
B.3 Equipment and supplies                                               0.15
B.4 Public information campaigns                                         0.06


Price and cost contingencies                                             0.46             0.27            58.7


                        Total Project Costs                              5.50             5.34            97.1
Note:
1.        Details may not add to total due to rounding.
2.        Due to the movements of the exchange rate, the project's amount at the approval stage was different than that at the
closing stage.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)


                Expenditure category                                    Procurement Method                            Total
                                                              ICB           NCB          Other          NBF
1. Consultant service                                                                     1.15                         1.15
                                                                                         (1.05)                       (1.05)
2. Training                                                                               1.05                         1.05
                                                                                         (0.95)                       (0.95)
3. Equipment                                                  2.40                        0.90                         3.30
                                                             (2.20)                      (0.80)                       (3.00)


Total                                                         2.40                        3.10                         5.50
                                                             (2.20)                      (2.80)                       (5.00)
Note:
1. Details may not add to total due to rounding.
2. Figures in parenthesis are the amount financed by IDA credit.




                                                           - 29 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(in US$ million equivalent)

               Expenditure category                          Procurement Method
                                                       ICB    NCB        Other   NBF  Total
1. Consultant service                                                    0.82          0.82
2. Training                                                              0.21          0.21
3. Equipment                                           4.31                            4.31


Total                                                  4.31              1.03          5.34
Note:
1. Details may not add to total due to rounding.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits



                                    Costs     Benefits   NPV   ERR (%)
         Not Applicable             N/A




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              August 1997               4    1 Task Manager, 1 Operations         S               S
                                             and Procurement Specialist, 2
                                             Economists

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              January 1998              4    1 Task Manager, 1                    S               S
                                             Operations and Procurement
                                             Specialist, 2 Economists

 Supervision
              06/25/1999                1    1 Task Manager                       S               S
              June 2000                 4    1 Task Manager, 1 Operations         U               U
                                             and Procurement Specialist, 2
                                             Economists
              December 2000             2    1 Task Manager, ! Operation          U               U
                                             Officer
              June 2001                 1    1 Task Manager                       U               U
              November 2001             5    1 Task Manager, 1 Financial          U               S
                                             Advisor, 1 Financial Account, 1
                                             Country Director, 1 Resident
                                             Representative
              June 2002                 2    1 Task Manager, 1 Operation          S               S
                                             Officer
              September 2002            1    1 Task Manager                       S               S
              December 2002             4    1 Task Manager, 2 Procurement        S               S
                                             specialists, 1 IT specialist
              June 2003                 4    1 Task Manager, 2 Procurement        S               S
                                             specialists, 1 IT specialist
              September 2003            1    1 Task Manager                       S               S
              December 2003             4    1 Task Manager, 2 Procurement        S               S
                                             specialists, 1 IT specialist
              April 2004                2    1 Task Manager, 1 Operation          S               S
                                             Officer
              September 2004            2    1 Task Manager, 1 Operation          S               S
                                             Officer
              January 2005              2    1 Task Manager, 1 Operation          S               S
                                             Officer
              June 2005                 1    1 Task Manager                       S               S
              November 2005             1    1 Task Manager                       S               S

 ICR
              January 2006              2     1 Task Manager, 1                   S               S
                                              Economist




                                              - 32 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            20.0                           50.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 12.8                           32.0
  Supervision                          112.4                         337.4
  ICR                                   12.0                           36.0
  Total                                157.2                         455.9




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 36 -

- 37 -

