                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 25907

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (IDA-29380)

                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.90 MILLION
                          (US$ 24.20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       AND A

                      GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.2 MILLION
                           (US$ 5.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

                 THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                      FOR AN

                       ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT




                                     June 4, 2003




Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region

                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 4 2003)

                                          Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupees (LKR)
                                             LKR97.23 = US$ 1.00
                                              US$ 0.02 = LKR1

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                               July 1   June 30

                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASTAE  Asia Alternative Energy Unit
AWDR   Average Weighted Deposit Rate
AU     Administrative Unit
BoI    Board of Investment
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CEA    Central Environmental Authority
CEB    Ceylon Electricity Board
CPI    Consumer Price Index
DMS    Demand Side Management
EA     Environmental Assessment
ECS    Electricity Consumer Societies
EEBC   Energy Efficient Commerical Building
EPC    Engineer, Procure and Construct
ERR    Economic Rates of Return
ESCO   Energy Service Company
ESD    Energy Services Delivery Project
FIRR   Internal Rate of Return (Financial)
GCMH   Grid-Connected Mini-Hydro
GCSPDA Grid Connected Small Power Developers Association
GEF    Global Environmental Facility
GHG    Green House Gas
GoSL   Government of Sri Lanka
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
IRR    Internal Rate of Return
ITDG   Intermediate Technology Development Group
LTL    Lanka Transformers Limted
MFIs   Micro Finance Institutions
MoFP   Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOU    Memorandum of Understanding
MTR    Medium-term Review
NEA    National Environmental Authority
NGOs   Non-Governmental Organizations
NPV    Net Present Value
OGVH   Off-grid Village Hydro
OOPS   Objective Oriented Problem Solving
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PAU    Project Administrative Unit
PCIs   Participating Credit Institutions
PEU    Pre-Electrification Unit
PFPD   Private Finance Development Project
PPA    Project Preparation Advance
PPF    Project Preparation Facility
PSIDP  Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project

QAG   Quality at Entry
RERED Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development Project
SDR   Special Drawing Rights
SEEDS Sarvodaya Economic Enterprises Development Services
SHS   Solar Home Systems
SIA   Solar Industry Generator Controller
SLBDC Sri Lanka Business Development Center
SLR   Sri Lanka Rupees
SPPA  Small Power Purchase Agreement
SPPT  Small Power Purchase Tariff
TA    Technical Assistance
TOR   Terms of Reference
VAT   Value-added Tax
VHS   Village Hydro System
WASP  Wien Automatic System Planning Package


                                      Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
                                  Country Director:      Peter Harrold
                                    Sector Manager:      Penelope Brook
                                Task Team Leader:        Chandrasekar Govindarajalu

                                         SRI LANKA
                       ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             44
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            48

Project ID: P010498                                                      Project Name: ENERGY SERVICES DLVY
Team Leader: Chandrasekar Govindarajalu                                  TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 4, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: ENERGY SERVICES DLVY                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-29380
   Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                                          Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Renewable energy (96%); Power (4%)
                  Theme: Climate change (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (P); Civic engagement,
                            participation and community driven development (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    06/08/1994                                        Effective: 07/22/1997
   Appraisal:    06/24/1996                                            MTR: 04/03/2000
    Approval:    03/18/1997                                         Closing: 12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOSL/MOF; GOSL/CEB; GOSL/PVT SCTR
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Mieko Nishimizu                                     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Peter C. Harrold                                    Mariana Todorova
Sector Manager:            Penelope Brook                                      Per Ljung
Team Leader at ICR:        Chandrasekar Govindarajalu                          Loretta Schaeffer
ICR Primary Author(s): Chandrasekar Govindarajalu


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:HS


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Project Development Objectives: In order of importance, the project objectives were to: a) Promote the
provision by the private sector, NGOs and cooperatives of grid-connected and off-grid energy services
using environmentally sustainable renewable energy technologies; b) Strengthen the environment for
Demand Side Management (DSM) implementation; and c) Improve public and private sector performance
to deliver energy services through renewable energy and DSM.

Global Development Objectives: To mitigate the impact of Green House Gas (GHG) emissions by
overcoming barriers to renewable energy and energy efficiency market development

The project development objectives were consistent with the energy sector assistance outlined in the CAS:
Report No.15633-CE, Board date May 21, 1996. Specifically, three CAS objectives supported by the
ESD Project were (i) environmentally sustainable energy development; (ii) promoting private sector
delivery of energy services; and (iii) enhancing efficiency in the power sector. At the time of appraisal,
public sector energy investments in Sri Lanka were inadequate to meet the rapidly growing demand.
Energy shortages were causing almost daily power cuts in 1996 and this underscored the need for new
generating capacity and improved efficiencies. Since a sizeable part of the population (about 48%) was
without access to the grid, the possibility of their being served in the near future through the conventional
system was nearly non-existent. This project therefore was prepared in response to the need for increased
access to electricity in rural areas. The guiding principle was to initiate innovative approaches that
overcame the typical constraints of grid expansion and inefficiencies of a public sector approach. While
this project was designed to meet the need of small rural systems of below 5 MW capacity, a parallel IDA
operation, the Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP)-- Cr. 2880-CE was designed at
same time to support larger generation projects.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Development Objectives were not revised

3.3 Original Components:

ESD Credit Program Component. This component was designed to provide support for medium and
long-term financing to private sector firms, NGOs and cooperatives for renewable energy investments.
Specific types of energy technologies envisioned included solar home systems (SHS) and off-grid village
hydro (OGVH) projects as well as grid-connected mini-hydro (GCMH) projects. Under the credit program
design, the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP) would onlend proceeds of the credit component to
eligible Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) at the Average Weighted Deposit Rate (AWDR), which
would in turn, onlend these proceeds, along with complementary financing out of their own resources, to
eligible sub borrowers at market rates and terms.

In addition to the IDA credit, the grant co-financing from Global Environment Facility (GEF) was available
through PCIs to developers of SHS and OGVH sub-projects to cover feasibility or business planning costs
as well as for one time capital cost buydown. The program was to be administered based on a set of
operating guidelines agreed by the GOSL and IDA. Grant funds were also available to the Administrative
Unit (AU) for off-grid promotional efforts, verification and consumer protection activities.

The ESD credit program component has been central to the design of the project being the main channel to
encourage private sector provision of energy services. As lack of access to long-term financing was the key



                                                       - 2 -

barrier to private sector investments, the credit program design was appropriately targeted at meeting
project objectives. The credit program design, including on-lending arrangements were modeled after the
successful Private Finance Development Project (PFDP-- Cr. 2484-CE) and therefore, built on a good
track record. In particular, the following features of design are noteworthy; (a) choice of direct on-lending
to PCIs through an Administrative Unit (AU) arrangement rather than an on-lending arrangement through
an Apex financial institution; (b) project administration by a private entity (DFCC bank) on contract to the
government. These features had been successfully used in the PFDP project, and therefore a reasonable
design choice for the ESD project; and (c) The onlending terms for PCIs and eventual borrowers reflect
market conditions. The AU was established within one of the PCIs, the DFCC Bank, following the practice
established by the PFDP project. DFCC bank is one of the two premier private sector development finance
institutions in Sri Lanka. The decision to use DFCC Bank as the administrative unit was taken by the
Government in consultation with the World Bank and other interested institutions. The use of one
institution as both a PCI and the AU required the creation of a "Chinese wall" between the AU and the
lending operations at the PCI. This prudent design was endorsed by the other PCIs. Being part of an
established finance institution, the AU started with the advantage of being familiar with the prevailing
banking regulations and procedures. Its initial staffing was carried out in a manner that ensured adequate
capacity to deal with the administration of the IDA credit and GEF grant.

Pilot Grid-Connected Wind Farm Component. This component intended to pilot the feasibility of
small-scale wind power generation projects in Sri Lanka from a technical and commercial standpoint. The
Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) implemented a 3-MW pilot wind farm project, based on previous studies
that indicated a significant wind potential. The pilot was designed to obtain technical know-how and
long-run economic potential of wind power in Sri Lanka and to assess the scope for private sector
participation. The key design choice of the pilot wind farm component was selection of CEB as the
implementing agency. This choice was reasonable because: (i) CEB was the only entity positioned to
mange the risk of new technologies such as Wind ( It is useful to note that previous in-country experience
relating to implementation of SHS, village hydro and small hydro projects allowed for a financial
intermediation design for those technologies), and (ii) Pricing for a private supplier of wind energy would
have been difficult given the lack of prior benchmarks.

Capacity Building Component. This component provided training and technical support in the area of
renewable energy and energy efficiency for the different stakeholders and implementing entities in the
public and private sector. The intended beneficiaries were CEB and energy service entrepreneurs. The
CEB had the institutional structures in place in the form of a Demand Side Management (DSM) Cell and
the Pre-Electrification Unit (PEU) that suited the implementation of this component. The design of this
sub-component was adequate as the institutional suitability and expertise were available at CEB to absorb
this technical assistance. Previous studies had indicated the latent market demand for such services and
CEB was well positioned to develop this expertise and reach out to other stakeholders.

3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered satisfactory for the following reasons: (a) For the grid connected mini-hydro
sub-projects, an enabling pricing and contract mechanism was in place. These included the small power
purchase agreement, non-negotiable tariff and interconnect specifications for small power producers; (b) A
sound pipeline of mini-hydro, village hydro, and solar home system projects totaling over US$ 58 million
in project costs had been identified for financing; (c) Broad community participation was evident from the
fact that more than 30 villages requested assistance for preparing village hydro projects in the range of 1.5


                                                      - 3 -

to 60 kW s under the GEF Project Preparation Advance (PPA).

With respect to the credit program quality at entry is evident from the following (a) the operating guidelines
were in place; (b) PCI eligibility criteria were established; (c) GOSL was in advanced stages of discussions
with several PCIs.

With respect to the Wind farm, readiness is demonstrated from the fact that the CEB had prepared the
feasibility study and the bid package utilizing the IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) on the basis of
which the ICB process was ongoing. CEB had also completed preparatory studies for DSM related work.

Since the project was appraised by June 1996 and became effective on July 22, 1997, it preceded the
introduction of the Bank's LACI guidelines. Since the project preceded LACI, no formal financial
management was conducted at the appraisal stage.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's set of development objectives was fully achieved and overall project outcome is satisfactory.

(a)      Promote the provision by private sector, NGOs and cooperatives of grid-connected and off-grid
energy services using environmentally sustainable renewable energy technologies. The ESD project
created an enabling environment for private sector participation in grid-connected renewable energy
projects by facilitating development of a Small Power Purchase Agreement (SPPA) and by channeling long
term credit through licensed commercial Banks and licensed specialized Banks. Private sector participation
in off-grid renewable energy development was stimulated by the participation of Micro Finance Institutions
(MFIs) in the credit program. In particular, participation of MFIs was instrumental in achieving increased
penetration of solar home systems (SHS). The implementation of private sector renewable energy projects
has created a vibrant industry of suppliers, developers, consultants and trainers. Today there are 11
mini-hydro developers, 4 major solar companies and about 12-15 village hydro developers as compared to
1 mini-hydro developer, 2-3 fledgling solar dealers and 1-2 village hydro developers at project appraisal. In
addition, at the village level, there are nearly 80 functioning electricity consumer societies. The success of
the pilot wind farm has generated considerable private sector interest and CEB recently launched a bid
solicitation for a 22 MW wind power project. The collective experience has created a dynamic renewable
energy industry with significant local expertise, minimizing the need for expatriate consultants. Having
achieved success in the domestic market, Sri Lankan mini-hydro developers are now looking to overseas
markets in Asia and Africa and local renewable energy consultants have began undertaking regional
assignments to share their experience.

(b)      Strengthen the environment for Demand Side Management Implementation. Through Technical
Assistance support to the CEB and the private sector stakeholders, the project has also strengthened the
environment for the implementation of DSM projects as well as built private sector capacity in the delivery
of energy efficiency and renewable energy services. Completion of the first national load research program
under the project is notable in this regard as it helped in identification of impacts of different classes of
consumers and appliances on the system peak demand (details available at website http://www.ceb.lk).
Evaluation of the ongoing energy efficient lighting program helped CEB build capacity in the area of DSM
program evaluation. The associated technical training also helped refine CEB's audit programs. During
the course of the project, CEB also led the preparation and issuance of energy efficiency building codes for
voluntary adoption by architects, builders and property developers




                                                       - 4 -

(c)      Improve public and private sector performance to deliver energy services through renewable
energy and DSM. The first Energy Service Company (ESCO), initially established as a division within
Lanka Transformers Limited (LTL), also came into being during the course of project, benefiting from the
capacity building efforts under the project and following-up on the success of this company, 2-3 new
companies are also now providing energy efficiency services. The pre-electrification unit at the CEB
helped increase awareness and build renewable energy project implementation capacity in its area offices as
well as private sector and NGOs through regular training programs.

(d) The global objective of reducing carbon emissions were fully achieved. The project will result in
reducing carbon emissions by some 514,000 tons (including the impact of mini-hydro projects)over the life
of sub-projects, compared to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) estimates of 140,000 tons (which
excluded minihydro)

4.2 Outputs by components:
ESD Credit Program: The outputs achieved under the various sub-components are discussed below.

(a) Mini-Hydro Development: This industry was virtually non existent at the beginning of the project and
only about 1 MW of privately owned mini-hydro capacity was available in 1997. As part of the ESD
project, 31 MW were installed through 15 sub-projects as against a target of implementing 21 MW of
grid-connected mini-hydro projects. About six serious private-sector mini-hydro developers now in
operation are planning more sub-projects. The costs of development have also come down, enabling
additional project development. As a against appraisal estimates of US$ 1030/kW of installed capacity,
average costs of US$ 963.5/kW were achieved.

(b) Solar Home Systems: The Solar industry was at a nascent stage when the project became effective,
with 2-3 small operations (Solar Power and Light, Sarvodaya, RESCO) selling roughly 20-30 systems/
month in 1998. The ESD project has catalyzed the market for SHS and the average annual sales industry
sales were about 850 systems/month in 2002, achieved by 4 companies (Shell Solar, Access Solar, SELCO
and Alpha Thermal). Cumulatively, compared to a revised target of 15,000 SHS installations, 20,953
systems were installed under the ESD project. The initial target was 30,000, but that was revised at
mid-term due to the slow market development in the initial stages of the Project. The actual average costs
are comparable to the appraisal estimates of about US$ 11/Wp (total installed system costs). However,
market prices have declined slightly to about US$ 10 /Wp today.

(c) Village Hydro Systems: The ESD Project has supported the installation of 350 kW of village hydro
systems serving 1,732 beneficiary households. This result exceeded the original ESD target of developing
250 kW in capacity, but was lower than the 2,000 rural households anticipated at appraisal. Although the
capacity target was exceeded, lower number of households benefited due to possible underestimate of
household demand. The appraisal estimate was 100 W per household but in practice the demand is found
to be to about 200 W/household. As against a targeted output of implementing 20 systems, a total of 35
systems were implemented during the course of the project. A further 49 projects are at various stages of
completion and have been transferred to the follow-on Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
Project (RERED). These projects were approved given the importance of maintaining the momentum of
village hydro market take off. The completed project costs show an average capital cost of $2,060/kW.
This is comparable to the economic capital cost estimated at appraisal of $2,023/kW.

Pilot Wind Farm: The pilot grid-connected wind farm component was completed in February 1999 and
certified in May 2000 (see website http://www.ceb.lk for detailed information). Despite a commissioning
delay of 9 months, CEB has logged 31 months of operating experience by the time of project closing. The



                                                     - 5 -

plant consists of five 46-meter towers with 600 kW turbines designed to supply a total annual capacity of
about 4.5 GWh. Total economic project cost amounted to US$1,175/kW, which is acceptable for a first
grid-connected wind farm operation in a country and compares to the expected estimates at appraisal.. The
CEB continues to monitor and record operational data from the wind farm and learn from this experience
the issues that must be addressed for integrating non-dispatchable and intermittent renewable power. The
successful implementation and operation of the wind farm has catalyzed significant interest among private
developers looking to develop private power projects.

Capacity Building:

The Capacity-building component was programmed to be carried out in the CEB through its
Pre-Electrification and Demand-side Management units.

In the CEB Pre-electrification unit (PEU), the capacity building program enhanced in-house expertise in
off-grid project preparation and helped facilitate and promote technically and economically viable
renewable energy subprojects as part of the ESD credit program. It also enhanced the ability of PEU staff
to train staff from CEB's area offices, the private sector, and NGOs in the areas of off-grid renewable
energy project design and development. This broad objective was met by the PEU by actively engaging in:
(a) Preparation of materials describing off-grid electrification options for training of stakeholders including
CEB staff, Pvt. sector and NGOs; (b)Training of CEB area staff in disseminating information and
promotion of off-grid electrification options. In total 26 programs were held with the participation of 748
officers from CEB, provincial government, private sector, and NGOs; (c) Coordination between CEB and
off-grid project developers on CEB rural electrification plans including indication of areas not likely to
receive grid service in the near term and (d) Preparation and dissemination of a guide for practical
implementation of grid interconnection /integration requirements to facilitate mini-hydro development.
There was some delay in executing the non-dispatchable power source modeling and planning study. This
has now been incorporated under a more comprehensive system study to be financed by the follow-on
RERED project.

The capacity building in the CEB Demand Side Management (DSM) branch consisted significantly of two
technical assistance packages: (a) Implementation of a Load Research Program and a DSM strategy and
(b) Design and implementation of a Code of Practice for Energy Efficient Commercial Buildings. Under
(a), the first National load research program was completed and the quality of the CEB DSM programs
were enhanced. Specifically with respect to the CEB DSM/EE program, energy audit skills were developed
to enable staff prepare investment grade audits and DSM program monitoring and evaluation skills
enhanced by an evaluation of CEB's ongoing energy efficient lighting program. Under (b), CEB took the
lead in the development and implementation of energy efficient building codes through an extensive
stakeholder consultation process including architects, equipment manufacturers, NGOs, and engineering
consultants.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Credit Program:

Mini-Hydro sub-component: Table 1 shows the comparisons of ERR and FIRR at appraisal and as
achieved to date. In order to preserve the confidentiality of the cost information, the achieved values are
based on a representative project whose costs and performance reflect the industry average (capital costs of
1025$/kW, 43% plant factor).




                                                      - 6 -

Table 1: Summary Assessment, Mini-Hydro

               Appraisal (1)              Achieved
              EllaPitiya Ella          Generic Project
 ERR                18%                      26%
 FIRR               13%                      24%
 (1) GEF, Republic of Sri Lanka, Energy Service Delivery
 Project, Project Document, February 1998.


Both the achieved ERR and FIRR are significantly above that estimated at appraisal, notwithstanding that
CEB's announced avoided cost tariff are likely underestimates of the actual avoided cost.

Village Hydro Sub-component: Table 2 shows the comparisons of ERR and FIRR at appraisal and as
achieved to date. The achieved ERR is significantly greater than that estimated at appraisal (the achieved
FIRR could not be calculated due to unavailability of information)


Table 2: Summary Assessment, Village hydro

                                                Appraisal (1)         Achieved     Achieved
                                                                     (benefits at    (with
                                                                    avoided costs  consumer
                                                                        only)       surplus
                                                                                   benefits)
Economic
ERR (without GEF)                                    12%                 18           54
Costs (NPV at 12%), $Usmillion                     23400
Benefits (NPV at 12%), $Usmillion                  23316
Net benefit, $Usmillion                              -684
ERR (with GEF grant)                                                     22           61
Financial (to VHS)
FIRR                                                 22%                  *
Costs (NPV at 12%), $Usmillion                     17,487                 *
Benefits (NPV at 12%), $Usmillion                  26,633                 *
(1) GEF, Republic of Sri Lanka, Energy Service Delivery Project, Project Document, February 1998.
* not possible to estimate actual FIRR due to unavailability of information.


The achieved ERR is greater than that estimated at appraisal for two main reasons. First, capacity factors
are significantly greater in practice than as estimated at appraisal, a consequence of the design approach
followed by the leading consulting firms and developers which calls for systems to be sized on the basis of
the available average dry season flow. Second, expenditures for kerosene and battery prior to electric
service have increased significantly since 1996 as a consequence of real income gains (and by more than
the CPI), and consequently the willingness to pay for electric service is higher. Economic returns are even
higher when additional consumer benefits are taken into account (based on estimates of the demand curve
for the first tranche of high-valued electricity used for lighting and TV viewing, as verified for SHS
beneficiaries).

Solar Home Systems sub-component: Table 3 shows the comparisons of ERR and FIRR at appraisal and
as achieved to date. The NPV values at appraisal are converted to a per household value1.

For the FIRR, it is not possible to determine the achieved financial returns to the dealers, since the solar



                                                              - 7 -

companies are unwilling to divulge information on their margins and returns. However, the strong private
sector interest in the SHS programme suggests their equity returns are likely to be at least 20%.


Table 3: Summary Assessment, SHS

                                         Appraisal(1)            Achieved
Economic
ERR(without GEF)                         Not shown                 31%
Costs (NPV at 12%), $US.                    603                     650
Benefits(NPV at 12%), $US                   610                     810
ERR(with GEF grant)                         12%                    42.6%
Financial                           (for NGO subproject)
FIRR                                        19%                  Cannot be
                                                             calculated, likely
                                                                to be 20%+
Costs (NPV at 12%), $US                     566
Benefits(NPV at 12%), $US                   638
         (1) GEF, Republic of Sri Lanka, Energy Service Delivery Project, Project Document, February 1998


_____________________________
1
 i.e. The values are divided by the 2,200 homes assumed to be served by the subproject.




                                                           - 8 -

The achieved ERR is significantly higher than estimated at appraisal because we use the gain in consumer
surplus to capture the observed willingness to pay for SHS that is far in excess of the replacement costs of
kerosene and battery charging equipment.

Wind Farm Component: Table 4 shows the comparisons of ERR and FIRR at appraisal and as achieved
to date. The achieved ERR and FIRR are based on the assumption that the long-term average capacity
factor is the average achieved to date.



                                   Table 4. Summary Assessment, Wind Farm

                                     Feasibility      Appraisal         Achieved
                                      study(1)           (2)
Machine configuration               13 x 225kW       13 x 225kW        5 x 600kW
Economic
ERR(without GEF)                        7.5%             9.8%             0.8%
ERR with GEF                            11.4%            14%              3.9%
Costs (NPV at 12%), $USm                                 2.5               2.5
Benefits(NPV at 12%), $USm                               2.9               1.5
Net benefit,$Usm                                         0.4              -1.0
Financial
FIRR                                                     11%              0.9%
Costs (NPV at 12%), $USm                                 2.9               2.6
Benefits(NPV at 12%), $USm                               2.8               1.5
 (1) RLA Consulting, Feasibility Study for a 3MW Pilot Project in Sri Lanka, Report to CEB, September 1996
 (2) GEF, Republic of Sri Lanka, Energy Service Delivery Project, Project Document, February 1998.


The achieved ERR is significantly below that estimated at appraisal, but is based on 2-3 year wind data
which is not necessarily indicative of the long-term average. The long-term average at Hambantota
(1986-1995) is 5.74 m/s, as opposed to the actually achieved average of 5.15 m/s at site (from startup to
February 2003). Despite a satisfactory operating experience, and capital and operating costs that are
essentially the same as those estimated at appraisal, the low ERR is a consequence of the achieved capacity
factor, which is substantially below that assumed at appraisal: this can be attributed to three factors. First,
wind speed measurements show actual winds speeds to have been significantly lower than the estimates
made by the various bids to supply the wind turbines. Second, the best site selected for the wind farm at
the time of feasibility study could not be utilized due to concerns raised by environmental NGOs (the site
was close to a wildlife reserve). The second best site could also not be used because of objections from the
Sri Lanka Air Force. And third, it appears that the turbine power curve assumptions made by the feasibility
study could not be matched by the equipment actually offered at time of tender.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial analysis for the small hydro, solar home system and wind components has been included in
the previous section. Overall, the renewable energy business in Sri Lanka has yielded sound financial
returns to the investors, both service providers and beneficiaries. The detailed results of economic and
financial analysis are presented in Annex 3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Sri Lanka has become a showcase for renewable energy development. It is widely recognized as a


                                                           - 9 -

successful model and Sri Lankan expertise in this area now sought internationally. All aspects of
this program-technical, financial, project design and implementation have provided important
lessons for renewable energy initiatives in other countries and projects. Specific impacts by
stakeholder institutions are discussed below.

Financial Institutions:

The commercial banks, licensed specialized Banks and MFIs involved in the project as Participating Credit
Institutions (DFCC Bank, Sampath Bank, National Development Bank, Hatton National Bank,
Commercial Bank and Sarvodaya Economic Enterprises Development Services (SEEDS)) have gained
familiarity of issues related to financing grid-connected and off-grid renewable energy projects. As a result
of the successful implementation of sub-projects, other financial institutions including commercial banks,
leasing companies and MFIs have shown keen interest in renewable energy project financing as
demonstrated by a greater number of PCIs in the follow-up RERED project. Cumulative amount of loans
disbursed by PCIs as of December 31, 2002 were in the amount of about SLR 1.9 billion (IDA refinance
amounts are in the Table 5 below). All PCIs admitted into the program have continued to meet the
eligibility criteria and have remained in the program. The criteria include measures of profitability,
liquidity, solvency and collection performance. These results have been confirmed by external auditors
annually.


Table 5. Amount of Refinance Provided to PCIs as at 31 March 2003

                                          Amount disbursed by IDA            Date of first
  Participating Credit Institution                                           withdrawal
                                                  Rs million                  % of total
DFCC Bank                                            560                   3621 Aug 1998
National Development Bank                            541                   3516 Mar 1999
Hatton National Bank                                 122                    826 Oct 1998
Sampath Bank                                         34                     219 Apr 1999
Commercial Bank                                      26                     204 Sep 2001
SEEDS                                                262                    1706 Jun 2001
Total                                            1,545                            100


Private Sector Developers and Suppliers:

The project has also helped foster a number of private sector developers of grid connected and off-grid
projects and suppliers of equipment. In particular,

    Solar companies such as Shell, Access, and Selco, have entered the market and helped trigger the
    take-off in sales and general improvement in after-sales service. They have brought international
    standards into play and much of their professional management is provided by Sri Lankan staff.
    Components such as light bulbs are now manufactured locally and supply and service chains
    established. A total of about 80 service and distribution centers are now in place in Sri Lanka and a
    total of around 500 technicians have been trained and employed. The Solar industry provides direct
    and indirect employment to about 1500 people . An active Solar Industry Association (SIA) has come
    into being and is leading advocacy on industry concerns and renewable energy issues.

    Mini-hydro design, engineering and construction capacity have developed to the extent that some of the



                                                     - 10 -

    developers are exploring overseas markets in other Asian and African countries. Although
    electro-mechanical equipment is still largely imported, capacity to implement civil works, and
    manufacture penstocks and smaller components has developed locally.

    The village hydro community has reached a critical mass and established its own association. The
    community is highly respected worldwide for its capabilities. Developers who help communities design
    and implement these 4-45 kW sub-projects have standardized approaches and are also undertaking
    overseas consulting assignments. The mechanical equipment for village hydro projects is manufactured
    locally by four manufacturers. The microprocessor based Induction Generator Controller (IGC), a
    key component, is also being designed and manufactured locally by four manufacturers.

    The implementation of the pilot wind-farm has also generated good private sector interest in wind
    projects with 7-8 companies presenting unsolicited proposals to the CEB. As a result of this level of
    private sector interest, the CEB has recently issued a tender for development of a 22 MW wind-farm.

    The ESD project has also generated private sector interest in the delivery of energy efficiency services.
    The first energy service company (ESCO) to be established in Sri Lanka is operating successfully and
    at least 2-3 others are beginning operations. LTL energy, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lanka
    Transformers Ltd., has about 20 clients and more than 100 energy efficiency installations. LTL energy
    started with a staff of two and has now expanded to a 8 member company with an annual turnover of
    80 million SLR.

Ceylon Electricity Board:

While the main objective of the ESD project was to help build private sector capacity in the implementation
of renewable energy projects, the project also helped to enhance the institutional capacity of CEB in the
implementation of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. In particular, the project had a
significant impact by the way of bringing increased renewable energy awareness in the area offices of the
CEB. The implementation of the pilot grid-connected wind farm also built expertise within the CEB to
implement such projects. About six staff members including a senior engineer are now fully trained to
handle all operational and technical aspects of wind projects..

National and Provincial Government

While building the institutional capacity of the Government was not a key objective under the Project, the
ESD project did help in creating a greater awareness for renewable energy projects within the National and
Provincial governments. In particular, the Central Environmental Authority (CEA), Ministry of Finance,
and Ministry of Irrigation and Power have better understanding of small private power projects in general
and renewable energy projects. Provincial level governments and financial institutions have been exposed
to off-grid renewable energy projects. The Uva Provincial Government expressed an interest in becoming a
part of the ESD project by promoting the adoption of solar systems in remote unconnected areas of the
province. The Uva province has one of the lowest rates of electricity access in Sri Lanka. The AU helped
Uva Provincial Government to design and implement a solar grant program under which 6000 households
have benefited through installation of SHS Two other Provincial Governments-Sabaragamuwa and
North-East province- have initiated similar programs

NGOs

Several NGOs took part in implementing the ESD project. These included promotional and operational


                                                    - 11 -

activities related to solar provision and village hydro development. Sarvodaya Economic and Enterprise
Development Services (SEEDS) received technical assistance under the project that helped in increasing the
quality of its operations through better business planning and the implementation of a portfolio
management system. It entered the program as an MFI, but was upgraded to PCI status in the year 2000.
Village cooperatives implementing village hydro projects also received substantial training which helped to
build their capacity in this area. In particular, Intermediate Technology Development Group (ITDG) and
Sri Lanka Business Development Center (SLBDC) trained about 30 NGOs in social mobilization and
village hydro development. The project has also significantly increased the capacity of renewable energy
and energy efficiency consultants. The Energy Forum has been successful in seeking grassroots feedback
and mobilizing communities to represent and advocate their views. This feedback has been valuable in
identifying and correcting deficiencies in the program

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Impact of the ethnic conflict on the market for renewable energy in Sri Lanka. The ESD Project was
prepared and implemented during a period when the country was involved in an ethnic conflict. Due to the
prevailing ethnic conflict in the North and Eastern provinces, the size of the market for renewable energy
technologies, particularly solar, was affected.

Impact of the ethnic conflict on the availability of long-term capital in the country. The conflict also
had an impact on the macroeconomic situation---the financial sector in Sri Lanka experienced a shortage of
long term capital, partly due to fact that the Government absorbed a significant amount of long-term capital
in the form of Government bonds and treasury bills.

The international price of oil was another major factor outside Government control affecting
implementation as the tariffs for the mini-hydro projects are determined based on the cost of avoided
capacity of oil fired power plants. Therefore, when the international price of oil declined, to abnormally
low levels in 1998 (to $10/bbl by December 1998), the buy-back tariff offered by CEB to the mini-hydro
developers also declined, threatening their continued development. However, by 2000 oil prices returned to
pre-1998 levels, resulting in significant increases in the CEB avoided cost tariff, and a return to strong
profitability for mini-hydro developers.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Domestic options for Increasing availability of long-term financing. In order to address the lack of
availability of long-term capital, the Government has considered an option to redirect pension funds to the
mini-hydro industry through the credit Program. This has not worked out successfully so far due to the
severe constraints faced by the government.

Government/Regulatory Oversight on Small Hydro Power Tariff Issues. After an initially good start,
mini-hydro development slowed down towards MTR due to the unsatisfactory buy-back tariff announced
by the CEB. Developers took issue with the data inputs and methodology for tariff calculation used by the
CEB, while CEB attributed the low tariffs to the declining international price of oil only. An independent
review was undertaken on behalf of the government to examine the issue. The formula was revised and the
existing tariff formula for the Standard Power Purchase Agreement provides a floor price for the tariff
equivalent to 90 percent of the first year's tariff and sets tariffs as a rolling average of three year values.
These measures along with the CEB's good payment record provides confidence and certainty to
developers and financiers. While the issue was amicably resolved, perhaps more active Government



                                                       - 12 -

oversight could have mitigated this risk. Ongoing power sector reforms and the setting-up of an
independent regulatory body will mitigate this risk in the future.

Clear demarcation of grid and off-grid areas. Accurate demarcation of grid and off-grid areas required
for solar market assessment was not possible due to the lack of reliable RE master plans. However, the
area offices of the CEB played a key role in facilitating market development of renewables such as Village
Hydros and SHS by providing reliable grid-extension estimates.

Effective government coordination with NGOs. The Government also played a key role in interfacing
with the NGOs who were concerned regarding the environmental impacts of the Windfarm. The
Government was able to effectively and adequately address the concerns raised by NGOs regarding bird
hits and disruption of the elephant migration path by putting in place a monitoring requirement.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project Administrative Unit (AU) at the DFCC Bank as well as the Ceylon Electricity Board
(CEB) were the implementing agencies under the Project.

The AU was instrumental in ensuring smooth flow of Grant and Credit funds. There was an initial
learning curve on the assessment and implementation of the TA support to the industry, but the
AU quickly adapted to addressing these requirements. The AU has established a reputation of
being responsive and inclusive among industry stakeholders and maintaining flexibility in
addressing project issues They have strictly adhered to safeguards requirements and financial due
diligence norms. Similarly, high standards for monitoring, asset verification and customer
acceptance have been implemented.

The CEB effectively implemented its components despite some initial problems with procurement.
Adequate preparation and early start by the way of preparing feasibility reports and clear
Consultant Terms of References (TORs), helped in ensuring that there were no major delays in
implementation.      The DSM branch and the PEU were pro active in involving stakeholders and
effectively implementing their respective TA components.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The Project Administrative Unit (AU) at the DFCC Bank as well as the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB)
were the implementing agencies under the Project.

The AU was instrumental in ensuring smooth flow of Grant and Credit funds. There was an initial learning
curve on the assessment and implementation of the TA support to the industry, but the AU quickly adapted
to addressing these requirements. The AU has established a reputation of being responsive and inclusive
among industry stakeholders and maintaining flexibility in addressing project issues They have strictly
adhered to safeguards requirements and financial due diligence norms. Similarly, high standards for
monitoring, asset verification and customer acceptance have been implemented.

The CEB effectively implemented its components despite some initial problems regarding procurement of
goods and services. In order to overcome the problems, the procurement staff att he field office had several
discussions with individuals and also conducted a training session for the CEB staff. It should be noted
that CEB staff was very receptive to the suggestions and also had the capacity to absorb the content.
Adequate preparation and early start by the way of preparing feasibility reports and clear Consultant


                                                     - 13 -

Terms of References (TORs), helped in ensuring that there were no major delays in implementation. The
DSM branch and the PEU were pro active in involving stakeholders and effectively implementing their
respective TA components.

5.4     Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project at the time of appraisal was US$ 55.3 million. This comprised of the Credit
Program (US$ 47.7 million), Wind Farm (US$ 3.5 million), capacity building (US$ 2.4 million),
unallocated and remaining PPF (US$ 1.7). The available financing was adequate to reach the project
targets. Although the GEF grant was fully utilized and only about US$ 10,623 of the IDA was unutilised
and all physical targets exceeded, there are some differences between planned and actual disbursements as
shown in Table 6 below (see Annex 2 for details).


        Table 6. Disbursements, US$ m

                                           IDA      GEF    PCIs     Entre-pre     CEB/       Total
                                                                      neurs      GOSL
        Total project cost (Appraisal)     24.2       5.9   13.7          9.6        1.9        55.3
        Composition, %                     43.8      10.7   24.8        17.4         3.4       100.0
       Total project cost (Actual)            22.1     5.7    4.8         10.7         1.3       44.6
        Composition, %                     49.6      12.8   10.7        24.0         2.9       100.0


The lower disbursement figures for IDA and GEF are due to the appreciation of the US$ against SDR, the
currency used in the legal agreements. Although net disbursements from IDA were US$ 22.1 million
against the anticipated US$ 24.2 million at appraisal, all physical targets were met or exceeded. The sharp
decrease in the contribution from PCIs is due to three principal reasons, namely, (a) the increase in the
amount of IDA refinance from 60% to 80%, (b) the lower than expected $ per kW investment costs for
both mini hydro and village hydro projects and (c) PCIs adopting conservative gearing ratios (of about
65:35 versus the 80:20 planned) to minimise the financial risk of investment projects. Item (c) is confirmed
by the higher than planned contribution from entrepreneurs, in terms of both value and proportion. In sum,
the project components either met or exceeded the physical targets at an overall cost that was about 20%
lower in US dollar terms.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The ESD started out as a pilot initiative. Over the course of the project, it established the institutional and
financial framework for a sustainable renewable energy industry in Sri Lanka. The institutional
development described earlier and the robust returns from investments made by different financial
stakeholders point towards continued sustainability. The renewable energy industry is currently going
through an expansionary phase, supported in part by, (a) the follow-on RERED project and (b) opening
up of the northern and eastern parts of the country following the establishment of peace. The main risk to
sustainability arises from the policy environment for renewable energy lagging behind the development of
the industry itself. The RERED project is addressing this risk by working toward suitable rural and
renewable energy policy interventions, and would increase the likelihood of medium to longer term
sustainability being ensured. The continued development of solar home systems and village hydro projects
would require limited GEF grant support for a few more years, though solar grants will be fully phased out
by the end of the RERED project. It should also be recognized that continued expansion of the solar
market and village hydro projects is subject to a limit imposed by expansion of the grid and exhausting



                                                     - 14 -

potential sites respectively. It is useful to note that solar market assessment was undertaken keeping in
mind that only areas where grid extension would not be economically viable in the 5-7 year time frame
would be suitable for solar electrification. From the project financial management perspective
sustainability is likely given that AU is now well established, has experienced staff (and has recruited one
additional person), and is part of a development finance bank that is well established . Audits have been
regular and unqualified and financial management systems and reporting are also being computerized
under the RERED project. Because of these factors, the overall sustainability is being rated as likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The renewable energy industry in Sri Lanka is largely sustained through a number of private companies
involved in the business of setting-up and operating hydro projects and sales, installation and service of
solar home systems, assisted by private sector commercial banks and micro credit institutions. Therefore,
the transition from a public sector intervention to a market based system has already taken place. The
follow-on RERED project is relying on this industry structure and largely private stakeholders to deliver
development objectives and project outputs. The RERED project also incorporates declining grant
mechanisms. It envisages complete phase out of grants for SHS and reduction of grants for community
driven projects to levels that can be sustained by government energy promotion programs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending is rated satisfactory. The project was formulated based on a number of studies undertaken with the
assistance of the Asia Alternative Energy Unit (ASTAE), GEF and PPF. The studies helped in the
development of the Small Power Purchase Agreement (SPPA), a key to the success of mini-hydro
development, as well as pre-feasibilities and surveys to detail the various components. The project was
consistent with the Government's energy sector and macroeconomic reform strategy and complied with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Both project design and implementation were marked by extensive
consultations among the Bank team, Government, commercial financial institutions, private sector and
communities/NGOs. The selection of DFCC Bank as the Project Administrative Unit was based on an
assessment of the interest and capability of available financial institutions, and included consultations with
Bank financial sector team. During preparation, the robustness of the initial pipeline of subprojects was
carefully evaluated and appraisal estimates in this regard were more or less validated. Technical and
financial risk assessment and suggested mitigations were largely borne out during project implementation.
However, the Bank team underestimated the policy risk for sustainable renewable energy development in
general. In particular, risks related to implementation of the small power purchase agreement were
underestimated. Capacity issues were adequately researched and recognizing the lack of capacity in
different stakeholder institutions significant GEF funds were allocated for this purpose.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated satisfactory. There was a high degree of continuity in the task team during
preparation and supervision of the project. During implementation, the Bank team remained proactively
engaged with the entire range of stakeholders, both to diagnose problems and devise solutions. Corrective
action in the form consultative workshops, intensive supervision, private sector consultations and
feedbacks, quarterly monitoring of stakeholder meeting reports were undertaken. Two examples of these
types of interventions were: (a) An Objective Oriented Problem Solving (OOPS) workshop, conducted as
part of a bank supervision mission to identify barriers to solar market development, and (b) A village hydro
stakeholder workshop was organized and an innovative solicitation approach was recommended to improve
the pipeline of village hydro projects- this was a key factor in the eventual success of the village hydro
program. Typically two to three mission were undertaken every year including field visits and stakeholder



                                                       - 15 -

consultations. The teams consisted of technical specialists, financial/economic, environment as well as
procurement specialists and disbursement specialists as required. As and when there were key issues, the
team responded quickly and if required, amendments to the agreements were made. The role of the local
staff is especially noteworthy in providing close supervision and being regularly engaged with clients and
stakeholders. The project has especially benefited from competent financial management inputs and
supervision provided by Colombo based specialist on an ongoing basis. Hence, supervision missions have
not included FM specialists. The main FM issue has been ensuring consistency between the FM practices
and standards of the Bank and that of the DFCC Bank and Government of Sri Lanka. This has been
handled well and the Bank guidelines have strengthened the procedures and FM practice by the borrower.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower, represented by the CEB and DFCC bank,
facilitated consultations with key stakeholders, supported preparation activities and policy formulation.
CEB was actively involved in project preparation activities related to all components. The private sector
took early ownership of project preparation and acted as a key partner in preparation activities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during the implementation was highly satisfactory. Rationalization of the import
duties for the solar equipment, active role in addressing NGO concerns during the construction of the
Wind-farm and the adjudicative role played in the resolution of the mini-hydro tariff issue are all
commendable. The government quickly and effectively responded to issues raised by the project
administrative unit or by the World Bank. In particular, the Director General of External Resources,
Ministry of Finance played an important role in the preparation of the project and demonstrated continued
commitment to the project objectives through timely actions for resolving the mini-hydro tariff issue,
upgrading the status of MFIs to PCIs and effective liaison with financial institutions, private sector and
provincial governments.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies, DFCC as the AU for Part A of the project, and CEB for
Parts B and C of the project is rated highly satisfactory.

The AU has effectively carried out its implementation responsibilities as outlined in its Terms of Reference
(TOR), including processing of loan disbursement request, maintaining of disbursements records and
accounts, compiling program related statistical records and submitting quarterly reports. The AU also
conducted regular stakeholders meetings to seek feedback on the Loan/Grant disbursements as well as TA
implementation. Equally important was the long-term view taken by DFCC in operating the AU. The
DFCC demonstrated a willingness to initially sustain losses from AU operations for the first three years
before starting to operate profitably. The model of an effective, efficient and proactive AU with a
long-term commitment and able leadership was an important element in the success of the project.
Borrower's compliance with financial covenants (Article 4.01 of DCA) was satisfactory. Receiving a
qualified audit opinion, even when there are no major issues, is typical of project reports of projects audited
by the Auditor General. All renewable energy sub-projects financed under the ESD Credit program, except
for the solar home systems, were subject to environmental and social analysis. Considering the scope of the
sub-projects that were to be financed under the Credit program, it was anticipated that any environmental
and social impacts would not be significant and reversible. Respective developers prepared environmental



                                                     - 16 -

assessments of sub-projects in accordance with the agreed environmental and social assessment framework,
which was based on the National Environmental Act (NEA) and the Bank's safeguard policies. The
environmental assessments were reviewed by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA), the
environmental regulatory agency, and cleared as a pre-requisite to developers accessing the Credit program.
The Bank's periodic review of sub-project specific environmental assessments and CEA's clearance
process were found to be satisfactory. All sub-projects financed under Credit program were considered by
the CEA to have no reversible environmental impacts and included no involuntary resettlement. Site visits
undertaken by the Bank's Environmental Specialists during the implementation phase of the project
confirmed CEA's assessments and the assumptions made at the project preparation stage, that potential
environmental and social impacts of sub-projects will not be significant and reversible, were realistic.

The CEB carried out its implementation responsibilities in accordance with expectations both on the wind
farm project and the capacity building components. Because the pilot wind farm site was located near a
bird sanctuary, it raised potential environmental concerns. The CEB carried out a detailed environmental
assessment (EA) with public consultation. Some concerns were raised about the possibility of the wind
turbines interfering with bird migration patterns. Detailed data on bird kills collected by the CEB after the
wind farm became operational and reviewed by the Bank show that there has been no adverse impacts on
bird migration in the area.

Safeguard compliance reviews and audit reports from both agencies were received on time and latter
mostly carried unqualified audit opinions.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


The lessons below are drawn from supervision efforts conducted over the life of the project, reviews
conducted by GEF and others and a small customer impact assessment survey conducted in July 2002.
The survey covered 100 SHS end-users and 50 Off-grid village hydro end-users. Although the project
began as a pilot initiative, its concept and approach have proved robust and scalable. The successful
lessons of the project are now being replicated on a larger scale under the successor RERED project.
Several key lessons for the development of a commercially sustainable renewable energy and energy
efficiency service market emerge from this project, and these are summarized below. The success of ESD
project interventions can be ascribed to their being demand driven and commercially oriented, while
enabling and empowering appropriate stakeholders to overcome technical, financial and institutional
barriers. The lack of effective reform and regulation in the main sector did not prove to be a detriment,
mainly because the market for renewables has developed among communities and households that do not
have access to the main grid supply and also do not expect such access in the foreseeable future.

It is within this overlap of the Private sector and the Energy sector that the following nine main lessons
have been learned for embarking on a successful private sector led (renewable) energy intervention:

        Lesson 1. Improve access to capital
        Lesson 2. Build a enabling business and policy environment
        Lesson 3. Scale-up capacity building initiatives
        Lesson 4. Introduce new products and technology through market principles
        Lesson 5. Learn the market and its consumers



                                                     - 17 -

        Lesson 6. Integrate productive uses at all levels
        Lesson 7. Allow for flexibility in project design.
        Lesson 8. Sound project and financial management are enabling factors
        Lesson 9. Critical role of GEF in project implementation

Lesson 1. Improve access to capital. One of the key barriers for private entrepreneurs and households
was access to additional capital for energy investments, each of them with their own set of reasons. For the
project developers, who were seeking to sell their electricity to the national utility, the need was for longer
term loans that would better fit the cash flow requirements of the system (high upfront investment,
relatively long repayment period). For the village based Electricity Consumer Societies and individual
households, the need was for loans that would make the systems more affordable. For some of the other
entrepreneurs, it was the needs for working capital to support their rapid growth. The project addressed
these needs in several ways through a credit program and an output focused co-financing grant program.
Detailed lessons were learned as follows:

        Microfinance institutions play a significant role in small and medium enterprises development.
In the original project design, MFIs could participate in the program but they had to obtain funds from the
participating credit organizations. This increased the cost of their funds to the ultimate end users but also
down-played their status in the banking sector which for some was unacceptable. At mid-term, MFIs were
allowed to participate as PCIs in the project under a specific set of criteria following practices from other
countries. The entry of the MFIs into the program made system more affordable and opened new markets
for the retailers. This allowed many of them to achieve double digits growth rates.

        Microfinance institutions are more suited for rural energy service provision than commercial
banks or SHS vendors. In the original project design, the SHS vendors and commercial banks were
expected to perform the function of a financial intermediary. The vendors early in the project
acknowledged that given the additional costs, expertise and risks involved, the credit service
should be handled by specialist organizations. The commercial banks reached the same conclusion
but for different reasons.
        Output focused co-financing grants provide incentives for private companies to enter new
markets and deliver pre-defined products. The project provided grants to cover some of the incremental
cost for the introduction of environmentally friendly technologies. These grants were output focused and
only disbursed after the pre-defined results were achieved. This approach was replicated by one of the
provincial governments (Uva province) when it became clear that its budget for rural electrification
(through grid) could support at least three times more households through an off-grid program.

Lesson 2. Build an enabling business and policy environment. For all of the private developers involved
in the project, the strengthening of a business enabling environment was of a key importance. For the
Small Hydro Power Developers, it was lack of a transparent and standardized contracting arrangement
with the only utility. The Solar dealers were hindered by the high import duties and the lack of an
institutional partner willing to provide consumer credit to rural households. For the village hydro
developers, it was the financial support to allow them to go out to the rural areas and identify potential
communities willing to invest in a mini grid. After these key barriers were addressed, existing investors
were willing to take on larger projects and new companies were willing to enter. The latter included some of
the larger local companies but also some of the better known multinationals. During implementation,
several more detailed lessons were learned:

        For a private sector led program to succeed institutional structures must be effective and



                                                     - 18 -

policy framework must be conducive. Commitment by the government is very important, and this should
be reflected in willingness to ensure consistency among national and sectoral objectives, e.g. making sure
renewable energy can compete with other technologies on a level playing field. During the initial
consultations conducted by the World Bank with the Government of Sri Lanka concerning the ESD project,
the GOSL agreed to rationalize import duties on photovoltaic modules, removing one of the major barriers
to widespread utilization of this technology. Similiary, the establishment of the small power purchase
framework by the CEB was a key factor in facilitating the implementation of small hydro projects.
Towards the end of the project, the government also introduced its new Rural Electrification Policy, which
aims to promote sustainable market-based provision of rural services. It is also currently in the process of
finalizing electricity reform legislation, which is expected to reinforce incentives and institutional structures
for the continued development of small renewable energy projects.

        The implementation of a standardized power purchase agreement should be ensured to
reduce overhead costs. The project supported the preparation of a standardized Small Power Purchase
Agreement (SPPA) and a standardized, formula-based way of determining the least cost tariff. The SPPA
is a standardized legally binding arrangement between the small power project developer and the national
utility. The SPPA replaces the cumbersome process of negotiating every small power project on an
individual basis. In many cases the negotiation process required substantial input from specialists and
lawyers often increasing the bureaucracy and overhead to a level at which the project became unviable. The
overall cost of preparing this set of regulations was less than US$200,000. Within a time span of 5 years it
facilitated more than 30 MW in private power projects.

        Business associations improve impact, and allow for constituency building for business
environment improvement. In total, five associations where established: Small power producers
association, Solar industry association, Village hydro association, Village hydro consumers association and
Biomass association. The business associations have been effective in several ways; They took lead role in
discussing the Standardized Small Power Purchase Agreements and Tariffs with the national utility and
Ministry when uncertainties arose over transparency in calculation and selection of input data; They took
lead in requesting CEB rural electrification expansion plans, engaging Provincial Government's in off-grid
electrification concepts, and further harmonizing the Government's policies. They have also been involved
in further improvement of the industry by requiring quality standards of members, addressing technical and
financing issues and resolving quality in service delivery issues. In this organized fashion, these private
electricity providers have become a constituency for private participation in the power sector.

Lesson 3. Scale-up capacity building initiatives. The introduction of a new industry coincides with
learning of new skills within almost all organizations involved. For the project developers, it is the
knowledge of a technology, the closing of a deal with the national utility, and the preparation of a bankable
proposal among others. For the financiers, it is the analysis of the risks. For the utility and the end-user it is
the quality of the product offered. In the initial stages of the market uptake, the capacity building initiatives
were conducted on project by project basis. This took time and is one of the reasons for a slower than
anticipated uptake in the village hydro and solar home system component. With the market growing, the
industry started to bundle capacity building efforts including: technical training for hundreds of installers of
solar systems through the Industry Association; supporting formal training institutions with integration of
curriculum in regular programs; usage of a methodology to identify in a short timeframe key issues and a
wholesale agenda for further actions for the industry; a "innovation solicitation" process to stimulate
further market growth with the key members of the industry; and, establishment of a framework for
wholesale capacity building initiatives. Through these initiatives nearly one thousand employees were
trained under the program.



                                                       - 19 -

Lesson 4. Introduce new systems and technology through market principles. Introduction of new
technology in a sector as well as in a company often needs to be driven by sound economic rationale and
market principles. For the introduction of the alternative energy systems in Sri Lanka, two fundamental
principles were followed: (i) the system need to be the least-cost option compared to its competitor products
(grid connected mini hydro projects); or, (ii) the incremental cost of the systems need to be in-line with the
incremental cost globally and have a clear declining path of these costs due to economies of scale (solar
home systems and village hydro projects). These principles have contributed to an industry that is expected
to grow even after external grant support is withdrawn. More detailed lessons were identified by the
stakeholders during surveys and are detailed below:

        Establish reliable after-sales service to ensure project sustainability. Under the ESD project,
many of the end-users were concerned about the availability of long-term support after warranties expire
and some vendors opt to close their field offices, especially in the `saturated' areas. They also expressed
willingness to pay for the continued presence of an entity that would ensure reliable servicing of the
systems. So far, the Solar Industry has responded well and currently there are about 80 sales and service
outlets throughout Sri Lanka--mostly developed through foreign and local private investment estimated of
some $1.0 to 5.0 million.

        Improving the efficiency of the delivery chain through the introduction of information
technology. The infrastructure of the enterprises operating in the rural areas is costly and often
in-efficient. One of the key organizations in delivering services  the participating micro finance
organization  has embarked on introducing information technology to further mainstream their operations.
When fully operational, it is expected to reduce the turn-around time of loan approvals from more than 90
days to less than 30 days.

        Most problems can be avoided if customers are made more aware about proper use and of
the limitations of their systems. The most common technical problems encountered by SHS users usually
involve the batteries, and are often caused by over-usage. Other technical problems involve wiring defects,
loose connections, and incorrect placing of PV module. These are problems that can be avoided if
customers are made more aware about proper use and of the limitations of their systems. For mini hydro
users, most of the technical problems encountered (including low voltage, power breakdown, lack of water,
flickering bulbs) are also due to over-usage. These can also be avoided if the necessary measures to
educate the end-users on the limitations of the system are taken. It is important to note that the vast
majority of the systems were installed in the last two years, so there have been no major servicing needs,
which are bound to arise as the systems grow older and components start failing. It is already felt that some
companies are not providing adequate service, although this is kept in check by the ESD-AU inspections
for grant disbursement as well as customer feedback to industry.

Lesson 5. Learn the market and its consumers. Initial market surveys and pre-investment studies scoped
the market for the new technology systems. These attracted early developers to enter the market. The
survey and studies however did not provide any detailed information on the specific need consumers have
for the different products. With competition increasing and the expectation of returns, companies have
emerged with greater understanding of their clients in their particular market niche. More detailed lessons
were identified by the stakeholders during the surveys, especially, including:

        Rural end-users are willing to pay more for their energy expenditures, as long as the energy
supply is reliable and safe. Even if it costs more than what they are used to paying, end-users place a



                                                      - 20 -

higher premium on the quality, reliability and safety offered by sources like hydro and solar energy. As
revealed in the survey, households current energy expenditures are higher than when they were using
kerosene as the main energy source for lighting, but they prefer to continue doing so because SHS and
OGVH do not pose the same health risks that kerosene use does, and provide continuous, more reliable
energy services such as lighting.

        Investment in market development activities is crucial to the success and sustainability of a
renewable energy program. This can take the form of technical assistance directed at enhancing the
capacity of the private sector, concerned government agencies, NGOs, etc to first, learn about the
technologies and the associated issues, and then how to properly implement and monitor projects. Under the
ESD, the Administrative Unit provided technical support and training to subproject developers and PCIs
for ESD credit operations. It also worth mentioning that a process like this requires time to build the
framework and perseverance (about two to three years) but after that acceleration is much faster,
up-scaling much easier at lower cost. This is consistent with the lesson learned in the India Renewable
Resources Development Project ( Report No 23489).

        Local or community participation in, and cash contribution for, the implementation and
monitoring of off-grid projects is a crucial element to project success as it ensures ownership on part of
the communities involved, promotes improvement of local capabilities, strengthening of community
relations, and also aids in cost recovery. In Sri Lankan society, there is the unique concept called `
shramadana' which basically means voluntary work in exchange for payment. Under the village hydro
component of the ESD project, which involved construction of civil works and erection of distribution lines
in the villages, families contributed their time to assist in these tasks. Although the amounts of time
expended were assigned equivalent cash amounts and deducted from their actual required payments, their
assistance was also brought on by a sense of project ownership and desire to ensure successful
implementation. This is proven by other contributions of the villagers e.g. poles, sand, etc for which they
asked for nothing in return. In a survey conducted for village hydro customers in the districts of Ratnapura
and Kegalle in June and July 2002, 43% of the households interviewed contributed between 20 to 39 days
to the project, and 33% contributed more than 60 days of sharamadana.

        Middle to upper income rural people benefit most as the technology involved is not cheap, and
these are the groups that have the willingness and ability to pay. To financing institutions, they also
represent `sound risk.' Under the ESD project, SHS and OGVH customers typically fall under the
middle-income category (on the basis of actual income and expenditures data obtained through the field
surveys). More than half are involved in agriculture and have seasonal incomes. Around 25% hold either
government or private sector jobs and earn monthly incomes.

Lesson 6: Integrate productive uses at all levels. Under the ESD project, SHS and OGVH customers
who were included in the field survey all acknowledged an improvement in their overall well being. They
also cited the accrual of economic/financial benefits, but mainly in the form of future savings once their
loans are fully paid off. For a rural electrification project to have a direct impact on economic development,
the project design should have an integrated approach where specific activities targeted at economic
development are incorporated, e.g. improvement of local infrastructure, local capacity-building, etc. This is
being addressed in the follow-on RERED project, which has a pronounced focus on promoting rural
development and productive uses through electricity access. Specifically, project developers will be
encouraged to include income generation components in designing their renewable energy projects.
Organizations involved in providing rural services in the areas of health and education will likewise be
engaged to find activities with opportunities for integrating energy provision. Cooperation with other



                                                       - 21 -

initiatives that combine energy provision with income generation will also be pursued.

Lesson 7: Allow for flexibility in project design. One of the major reasons for the success of the ESD is
that project design was flexible enough to allow different approaches and changes as and when required.
For instance, with the off-grid SHS component of the project, it was recommended at mid-term that role of
MFIs in servicing isolated rural areas should be increased specifically by (1) providing assistance to
potential microfinance institutions (MFIs) to help them qualify as PCIs for the project, (2) considering
appropriate criteria for MFIs to qualify as PCIs, and (3) encouraging existing PCIs to work with and
provide loans to MFIs that have proven outreach capabilities. This resulted in the introduction of
microfinance (with the accreditation of SEEDS as a PCI) and a private partnership model for market
development and financing. The evolution of a new business model involving a tripartite relationship
between the customer, MFIs and the solar company was a key to success. This tripartite relationship was
structured through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the solar companies and the MFI.
The key features of the MOU were a buy back scheme and identification of responsibilities of each party
regarding consumer service provision. To address the slow village hydro market development, an open
solicitation process was initiated to get proposals from consultants on how to address policy, technical, and
sustainability issues. To ensure that the process would yield concrete accomplishments, consulting
contracts were tied to deliverables. As in the SHS component, the interventions resulted in the attainment of
targets.

Lesson 8: Sound project management and financial management are enabling factors: Competent
financial management and project management staff in both implementing agencies were enabling factors
for successful project implementation. Accounting, record keeping, and reporting on project financial
transactions (though manual) were timely, comprehensive and satisfactory. Notworthy is DFCC's
financial management system for monitoring and disbursing against loan refinancing applications from
PCIs, which is a good model to follow for future projects that have financial intermediation components.
The existing financial management arrangements were augumented for the follow-up project.

Lesson 9. Critical role of the GEF in implementation: This project could not have been
implemented without GEF grant support that helped catalyzing the solar home system (SHS) and village
hydro industries. Also, generous GEF supervision budgets during supervision made possible close
supervision of these components and taking corrective actions as required. GEF's initial support will be
further leveraged through the RERED project where solar and village hydro programs are being scaled-up.
It is also important to note that the subsidy role of the GEF for these two types of subprojects will be
reduced over time, so that eventually these subprojects can proceed without such support.




                                                      - 22 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Mr. Chandrasekar Govindarajalu
Team Leader
Energy Services Delivery Project
World Bank
Washington DC

Dear Mr. Chandrasekar,

                    Sri Lanka - Energy Services Delivery Project Cr. 2938, TF 028955
                                        Comments on the draft ICR

This is with reference to your e-mail sent to us on 30th April 2003 regarding the above subject.

We have reviewed the draft ICR and are in agreement with its contents except for the Bank's very modest
rating of its own performance. We are of the opinion that the ratings for "Bank supervision" and "Bank
overall" given in section 7 of the ICR should both be "Highly Satisfactory" . We justify this on the grounds
that the World Bank team played an extremely participative and proactive role right through the Project,
without which the Borrower, Implementing Agencies and subproject developers could not have achieved
much success. In particular, the OOPS workshop for solar stakeholders and the innovation solicitation
workshop for village hydros conducted around mid-term with the Bank's direct participation were creative
inputs that paved the way for the rapid market take-off for solar home systems and off-grid village hydros.

Thank you.

Yours sincerely,




R.V.Nanayakkara
Addl. Director General
For DG/ERD


Copy : 1.     Mr. Jayantha Nagendran, Senior Vice President
             ESD Project, DFCC Bank
        2. Country Director, WB


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information



                                                    - 23 -

- 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                               Project Progress per Key Performance Indicators

Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators                       Progress as of Project Closing
Project Development
Objectives:
                                1.1 Installation of at least 26 MW of grid and   About 35.3 MW installed (31 MW mini-hydro, 3
1. Promote the provision by     off-grid renewable energy capacity by the end    MW wind, 0.94 MW solar and 0.35 MW village
private sector, NGOs, and       of 2002, including service to 32,000 off-grid    hydro). About 22,685 off-grid customers served
cooperatives of grid-connected  customers by end of project.                     (20,953 solar, 1,732 village hydro)
and off-grid energy services
using environmentally           1.2 (old) At least one power purchase            No serious private wind power proposals expected
sustainable renewable energy    agreement for a private wind power project       until after power sector restructuring, therefore this
technologies                    signed by CEB*                                   indicator was dropped at Mid-term.


                                1.2(new) Inclusion of provisions for privately   This indicator added at mid-term. The reform act
                                developed renewable energy into the power        recognizes the value of small renewable energy
                                sector restructuring program.                    producers though no specific provisions have been
                                                                                 included at this stage.

2. Strengthen the environment   2. CEB issuance of Energy Efficient              EEBC codes issued in April 2001.
for DSM implementation          Commercial Building Code of Practice
                                (EEBC)

3. Improved public and private  3.1 CEB annual update of Small Power             Updates published annually
sector performance to deliver   Purchase Tariff (SPPT)
energy services through
renewable energy                3.2 Signing by CEB of at least 5 SPPA            14 SPPAs signed by mid-term and over 37 SPPAs
                                contracts by mid-term evaluation; 12 by          signed by project closing in December 2002.
                                Project completion

                                3.3 Generation planning models prepared by       No action
                                CEB which incorporates intermittent,
                                non-dispatchable renewable energy generating
                                sources
Project Outputs

1. Renewable Energy             1.1 Standard Small Power Purchase                SPPA in place
Subprojects                     Agreement (SPPA), non-negotiable power
                                purchase tariff in place.

                                1.2 Installation of about 16 MW (about 15        About 35.3 MW installed (31 MW mini-hydro, 3
                                subprojects) of grid and off-grid renewable      MW wind, 0.94 MW solar and .35 MW village
                                energy capacity by end of project (7 MW by       hydro), in 51 subprojects (15 mini-hydro, 1 wind,
                                mid-term review)                                 and 35 village hydro)


2. Pilot Wind Farm              2. Commissioning of Pilot Wind Farm of about     Pilot Wind Farm commissioned in March 1999
                                3 MW by 5/98

3. Training and materials to    3.1 At least 15 CEB staff/private sector        About 548 CEB and private sector staff trained
enhance private, NGO, and       developers/NGO staff trained to deliver energy through training programs sponsored by CEB and
public sector capability.       services via renewable energy by mid-term       Solar Industries Association of Sri Lanka
                                evaluation

                                3.2 A guide for practical implementation of     The guide was prepared and issued in December
                                existing grid interconnection specifications by 2000
                                mid-term evaluation

4. Code of Practice for Energy  4. Public review and completion of EEBC (by     Activity completed successfully in April 2001
Efficiency in Commercial        mid-term review and end of project
Buildings                       respectively)

5. Load Research Program        5.1 Review of draft Load Research program by First Load research program completed in May 2002
                                mid-term review; load research program          and successfully operating



                                                                    - 25 -

start-up by end of project

5.2 On-premises load metering of at least 10 On-premises load metering of 15 customers
major consumers.                             completed




                                 - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                          Project Cost by Component in US$ million equivalent
                                Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate         Percentage of Appraisal
      Project Cost by              US$ million                      US$ million                          %
       Component
ESD Credit Program

Mini Hydro                             30.8                             26.7                           86.7
Village Hydro                           0.7                              0.8                          114.2
Solar Home Systems                     14.4                              9.2                           63.8
Business Dev                            0.5                              1.0                            200
Off-grid project support                1.2                              0.7                           58.3
Wind Farm                               3.5                              3.8                          108.5
Capacity Building

Pre-Electrification Unit                0.5                              0.4                             80
DSM Unit                                1.9                              1.9                            100
  Other (unallocated and                1.7
            PPF)
                                       55.2                             44.5                           80.6




                        Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (at Appraisal)

            Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method                        Total Cost
                                              ICB           NCB           Other          NBF
    1.  Credit Program Subloans
        (a) Goods                                                          19.0            5.2            24.2
                                                                          (11.9)                         (11.9)
        (b) Works                                                          16.5            4.6            21.1
                                                                          (10.6)                         (10.6)
        (c) Services                                                        1.9            0.5             2.4
    2.  Pilot Wind Farm (EPC contract)          2.8                         0.7                            3.5
                                               (2.5)                       (0.5)                          (3.0)
    3.  Capacity Building                                      0.9          0.3            0.3             1.5
        (a) Consulting Services and                           (0.9)        (0.3)                         (1.21)
    Training
                                                0.1            0.6          0.1            0.1             0.9
        (b) Goods                              (0.1)          (0.6)        (0.1)                          (0.8)
    4.  PPF                                                                 0.3                            0.3
                                                                           (0.3)                          (0.3)
    5.  Unallocated                                                         1.4                            1.4
                                                                           (1.4)                          (1.4)
    Total                                       2.9            1.5         40.2           10.7            55.3
                                               (2.6)          (1.5)       (26.2)                         (30.3)



                                Note:      NBF = Note Bank-Financed.
                                  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit and GEF
                                Grant.
                                 The Project Preparation Facility (PPF) is $340,000.



                                                       - 27 -

                  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual)

        Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method                      Total Cost
                                             ICB          NCB          Other        NBF
1.  Credit Program Subloans
    (a) Goods                                                           20.1          5.5            25.6
                                                                       (15.4)                       (15.4)
    (b) Works                                                            7.6          2.1            9.7
                                                                        (5.1)                       (5.1)
    (c) Services                                                         1.1          0.3            1.4
                                                                        (0.7)                       (0.7)


2.  Pilot Wind Farm (EPC contract)            3.5          0.3                                       3.8
                                             (3.1)        (0.2)                                     (3.3)

3.  Capacity Building
    (a) Consulting Services and                                          3.7                       3.7
Training                                                                (3.7)                      (3.7)
                                                           0.2           0.2                       0.4
    (b) Goods                                             (0.2)         (0.1)                       (0.3)

Total                                         3.5          0.5          32.7          7.9            44.6
                                             (3.1)        (0.4)        (25.0)                       (28.5)


               *Other includes all consultancy contracts and Established Commercial Practices (ECP)




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                             Economic and Financial Analysis

An ex-post economic analysis was conducted for the different investment areas of the project.2              This
includes: grid connected mini hydro projects, village based hydro projects, solar home systems, and the
pilot wind farm.

A. Grid connected mini hydro projects

1.         Introduction. The very success of the ESD project in catalyzing a sustainable private sector
development of mini-hydro poses certain difficulties for economic and financial analysis: much of the data
on the financial performance of actual projects is confidential. While some developers and the Banks
shared their information with us, we are bound by confidentiality agreements, and therefore the analysis is
presented in terms of the "representative industry average" rather than individual projects.

2.         Assumptions and ERR at Appraisal. Table 3.1 shows the assumptions for, and the analysis of,
the ERR at appraisal. The 18% ERR was estimated on the basis of a preliminary assessment of a 580kW
project at Ellapitiya Ella.       3




Table 3.1: Economic analysis at Appraisal

Project Name               Ellapitiya Ella
kW                             580 [kW]
plant factor                  0.445 [ ]
GWh/year                      2.261 [GWh/year]
cost($)/kW: base estimate      1030 [$US/kW]
local fraction                 0.40 [     ]
capital cost, local component 12.66 [RsMillion]
actual exchange rate             53 [Rs/$US]
capital cost, foreign         19.00 [RsMillion]
O&M costs (%of capital cost) 0.02 [       ]
total capital cost            31.66 [RsMillion]
discount rate               12.00% [      ]

Economic returns           Ellapitiya Ella     580 [kw]
                               1995     1996   1997  1998  1999  2000   2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006
                                 [-1]      [0]   [1]   [2]   [3]    [4]   [5]   [6]   [7]   [8]   [9]  [10]
GWH/year                                        2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3    2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3
avoided cost                                  3.368   3.4   3.4   3.4    3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4
benefits@avoided cost                           7.6   7.6   7.6   7.6    7.6   7.6   7.6   7.6   7.6   7.6
O&M costs                                      -0.6  -0.6  -0.6   -0.6  -0.6  -0.6  -0.6  -0.6  -0.6  -0.6
disbursement                       1
capital cost                  -31.7       0.0
economic flows                -31.7       0.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0    7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0
NPV@discount rate              13.3
                              251.0
ERR                         18.00%
PAD estimate of ERR         18.00%


3.         The ERR is sensitive to three main assumptions (beyond the prescribed discount rate): the capital
cost, the annual capacity factor, and the avoided cost (used as a measure of benefit). Likely deviations of
O&M costs, assumed in the PAD at 2% of capital cost, play a small role.



                                                            - 29 -

______________________________________
2. Sri Lanka Energy Service Delivery Project: Economic Analysis for the Implementation Conmpletion Report, May 2003.
3. The Ellapitya Ella project was subsequently constructed by ECOPOWER Ltd.


4.       Capital costs. The average completed project cost (financial) is $1,025,4 which falls to
$963.5/kW as an economic capital cost. This compares to $1,030 assumed at appraisal. There are two
explanations of the variation in capital costs. First, the most usual (and most obvious) is site quality, for
which head is the best summary proxy among the project built this far.5 The second is the learning curve
effect: as developers gain experience, one would expect the incidence of cost overruns and project
implementation delays to fall.

5.       Avoided costs. Table 3.2 shows the tariffs that apply to mini-hydro projects, as determined by
CEB. It may be seen that even the dry season tariffs are significantly below the estimate of avoided cost
used in the PAD (of 6.3 UScents/kWh). The tariff is estimated at the end of each year for the year ahead;
the announced tariff is then given by the average of this estimate and that of the past two years.


Table 3.2: CEB announced tariff

                                       1997      1998     1999        2000     2001      2002     2003
Dry season(1)     Rs/kWh               3.38       3.51     3.22       3.11     4.20      5.13      5.85
Wet season        Rs/kWh               2.89       3.14     2.74       2.76     4.00      4.91      6.06
exchange rate (2) Rs/$US               59.0       64.5     70.6       77.0     89.4      95.0     100.0
Dry               USCents/kWh           5.7       5.4      4.6         4.0      4.7      5.4       6.1
Wet               USCents/kWh           4.9       4.9      3.9         3.6      4.5      5.2       5.9
weighted average USCents/kWh            5.1       5.0      4.0         3.7      4.5      5.2       5.9
(1) February, March, April.
(2) Exchange rates are period averages

6.       In theory, the use of avoided costs as the measure of economic benefits of mini hydro is
unassailable, but how avoided costs are actually to be determined is more difficult. Since CEB's avoided
costs are also the basis for the mini-hydro tariff, it is unsurprising that the tariff, and the methodology of
calculation, have been controversial, with several committees and an independent consultant6 coming to
varying conclusions. Two developers are presently in an arbitration proceeding against CEB contesting
CEB's tariff determinations.7 The consultant's recommendations for the 2001 tariff were not adopted by
CEB: a comparison is shown in Table 3.3.


Table 3.3: Tariffs for 2001

                                         CEB        Recommended
                                                          by
                                                     Consultant
Dry                Rs/kWh                4.20           5.35
Wet                Rs/kWh                4.00           5.03
exchange rate      Rs/$US                 89             89
Dry                USCents/kWh           4.70           5.99
Wet                USCents/kWh           4.48           5.63
weighted average USCents/kWh             4.53           5.72
 Source: Siyamabalapitya, op.cit.



                                                        - 30 -

______________________________
4. source: DFCC database on PCI financings.
5. Low head projects built on irrigation canal drops may also be of high quality depending on the degree of upstream
regulation; but to date, none of the mini-hydro projects built under ESD fall in this category.
6. T. Siyamabalpitiya, Study on Grid Connected Small Power Tariff, Sri Lanka, Final Report, June 2001.
7. ECOPOWER and Mark Marine. These two developers account for some 50% of all mini hydro capacity.




                                                               - 31 -

7.        Capacity benefit. At present, the announced tariff is based solely on avoided energy
costs, and does not take into account any capacity benefit. However, while the capacity benefit
may be small, it is unlikely to be zero. The main argument against a capacity benefit is that, in the
short run, the quantity of mini-hydro is so small that CEB's capacity expansion plan is unlikely to be any
different, a result that seems to be confirmed by runs of the WASP model, which identifies little or no
impact on the optimal expansion plan.8 However, for the two years for which complete data of the monthly
generation exists, show that even in the driest months of February and March there is some mini hydro
generation. As the number of mini hydro plants increase, it is likely that the diversity effect will increase the
capacity value to CEB. In other words, while the capacity benefit of any single plant may be small,
because of the monthly and annual variation of a particular site, when the output of all projects are added
together, the extent of variation declines. This is illustrated by the calculation of the coefficient of variation
(standard deviation divided by mean) for eight of the ESD projects, whose average monthly variability is
56%. But when the outputs are added together (i.e. the total input to CEB), the variability decreases to
43%.9 As the number of operational plants increases, this diversity effect is likely to increase, particularly
with the additional of low-head projects on highly regulated rivers and irrigation canal drops.

8.        Achieved capacity factors. The achieved capacity factors are somewhat lower than those
estimated at appraisal. While the achieved capacity factor at the Ellapitiya Ella project is only marginally
below the assumed 44.5% at appraisal, significantly lower capacity factors have been observed at some of
the other ESD-supported projects though the general trend is clearly one of increase (from 0.38 in 2000 to
0.43 in 2002).

9.        Achieved ERR. The representative mini-hydro project supported by ESD may be said to have the
following features: a completed (financial) capital cost of 1,025$/kW; an imported component of 60% (free
of import duty); SCF of 0.9 (as applies to domestic capital costs); an economic capital cost of 963.5$/kW;
a capacity factor of 43%; and, a size of 1.75 MW. Under the PAD estimate of avoided cost of 6.3
UScents/kWh, the ERR is 24.7%; with the actual CEB avoided cost tariff the ERR falls to 23.5%. For the
most attractive projects with capital costs of $900/kW and 55% capacity factors, the ERR increases to
34%.

10.       Financial returns. As noted above, the actual financial results of the private companies involved in
mini-hydro development were not available to us. However, the strong interest among private developers is
in itself an indicator that financial returns are presently attractive. To assess likely financial returns to the
developers we have constructed a financial model that replicates the results of a financial analysis
published by the Grid Connected Small Power Developers Association (GCSPDA), which shows IRR as a
function of capital cost and power purchase rate.10 The analysis makes the following assumptions: Capital
cost funded 40% equity; 60% debt; Debt repaid over five years at 24% interest rate; Initial exchange rate
Rs94/$, depreciating at 7% per year; Annual O&M as 10% of annual revenue; Income tax rate of 15%
(consistent with BoI status); Annual capacity factor 55%; which produces the results shown in Table 3.4.




______________________________
8. The Siyambalapitya report notes the sensitivity of the capacity credit calculations in WASP to exogenous assumptions made
by CEB about thermal capacity additions in the short run, (assumptions that have also been consistently optimistic). In any



                                                             - 32 -

event, as noted in the report, capacity and energy credits need to be estimated in the same model: one cannot use WASP for
capacity credits, and some other model (such as METRO) for the energy credits.
9. Similar arguments would apply to wind projects, once 5-10 projects are developed at different locations across which there is
likely to be some diversity.
10. Grid Connected Small Power Developers Association (GCSPDA), A Policy Framework for Accelerated Development of
Small Hydro Power, January 2002.




                                                              - 33 -

Table 3.4: IRR on Rupee Equity Investment in small hydro power plants

 Capital cost                                      Power purchase rate
$/kW                     5 UScents/kWh5.5 UScents/kWh6 UScents/kWh
1000                     32.3%35.8%39.4%
1250                     25.9%28.4%31.0%
1500                     21.9%23.9%25.9%
 Source: GCSPDA, op.cit., Exhibit 2

11.          The financial model is shown in Table 3.5 for the case of $1,000/kW and a 5 UScent/kWh tariff:
the result of FIRR=32.3% replicates that shown in Table 3.4 as estimated by GCSPDA. With 2002 and
2003 tariffs in the range of 5-6 UScents/kWh (Table 3.2), the profitability of mini-hydro projects is clear.
In constant terms the FIRR is 25.8%.

Table 3.5: Financial model, mini hydro
                                                 -1    0     1     2        3      4      5      6      7      8      9    10
exchange rate               0.07 [Rs/$]          94  101   108   115     123    132    141    151    162    173    185    198
deflator                         [ ]              1 1.07  1.14  1.23    1.31   1.40   1.50   1.61   1.72   1.84   1.97   2.10
capital cost               1000 [$/kW]
debt                         0.6 [ ]
equity                       0.4 [ ]
disbursement profile              [ ]           0.1  0.9
capacity                          [MW]            1
capital cost                      [1000$US]   1000
                                  [RsMillion]    94
energy                      0.55 [MWh]                    4818  4818    4818   4818   4818   4818   4818   4818   4818   4818
tariff                      0.05 [US$/kWh]    0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05    0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05
                                 [Rs/kWh]     4.70  5.03  5.38  5.76    6.16   6.59   7.05   7.55   8.08   8.64   9.25   9.89
revenue                          [RsMillion]              25.9  27.7    29.7   31.8   34.0   36.4   38.9   41.6   44.5   47.7

O&M costs                   0.02 [RsMillion]               -2.6  -2.8    -3.0   -3.2  -3.4    -3.6  -3.9   -4.2   -4.5   -4.8
debt service                     [RsMillion]              -21.4 -19.4   -17.4  -15.3 -13.3     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Equity                      37.6 [RsMillion]  -3.76 -33.8
total financial flows, before tax [RsMillion]  -3.8 -33.8  1.9   5.6      9.3  13.2   17.3   32.7   35.0   37.5   40.1   42.9
income tax                       [RsMillion]               -1.3  -1.8    -2.4   -3.0  -3.6    -4.2  -4.5   -4.9   -5.3   -5.7
financial flows, after tax        [RsMillion]  -3.8 -33.8  0.6   3.7      7.0  10.3   13.7   28.5   30.5   32.6   34.8   37.2
IRR                              [   ]       32.3%
IRR[after x years]                                                    -35.7% -15.1%  -1.6%  11.5%  18.3%  22.6%  25.3%  27.2%
debt service
debt balance                      [RsMillion] 56.4  56.4  45.1  33.8    22.6   11.3     0.0
principal                        [RsMillion]              11.3  11.3    11.3   11.3   11.3
interest                    0.18 [RsMillion]        10.2  10.2   8.1      6.1    4.1    2.0
total debt service                [RsMillion]       10.2  21.4  19.4    17.4   15.3   13.3
Income tax
Revenue                           [RsMillion]   0.0  0.0  25.9  27.7    29.7   31.8   34.0   36.4   38.9   41.6   44.5   47.7
O&M costs                        [RsMillion]         0.0   -2.6  -2.8    -3.0   -3.2  -3.4    -3.6  -3.9   -4.2   -4.5   -4.8
Depreciation basis             1 [    ]
Depreciation                  20 [RsMillion]               -4.7  -4.7    -4.7   -4.7  -4.7    -4.7  -4.7   -4.7   -4.7   -4.7
Interest                         [RsMillion]        -10.2 -10.2  -8.1    -6.1   -4.1  -2.0
EBT                               [RsMillion]   0.0 -10.2  8.5  12.1    15.9   19.8   23.9   28.0   30.3   32.8   35.4   38.2
taxRate                          [   ]                    0.15  0.15    0.15   0.15   0.15   0.15   0.15   0.15   0.15   0.15
Tax                              [RsMillion]               1.3   1.8      2.4    3.0    3.6    4.2    4.5    4.9    5.3    5.7



12.          It should be noted that the 32.3% IRR calculated in Table 3.5 is the IRR achieved if the project
goes to its expected lifetime of 20 years. The IRR achieved in earlier years, however, will be lower. This
is illustrated by the IRR profile of Figure 1.4, which shows the IRR achieved at the end of each year of
operation: we see that an 18% IRR is achieved by the end of year 7, and 27% be the end of year 10. In
other words, if the tariff dropped in year 8 to zero, the IRR to the developer would be 18%. This relatively
attractive risk profile further enhances the financial attractiveness to private sector entities.




                                                                     - 34 -

13.      When the returns are calculated in constant Rs., the FIRR to the developer falls to 23.5%, for
which the corresponding economic rate of return is 25.8% (and 27.1% with carbon benefits at 15$/ton).

14.      Table 3.6 shows the corresponding reconciliation of costs and benefits. The columns of this table
represent the stakeholders, and the rows the individual transactions. Note that because the tariff is assumed
to be equal to CEB's avoided costs, electricity consumers do not benefit. Rather the net benefits are
distributed among the developer, government, and the financial institutions.11


___________________________________________
11. A surplus accrues to the financial institutions because the assumed financial rate of interest (18%) exceeds the discount
rate (12%).




                                                             - 35 -

  Table 3.6: Distribution of costs and benefits (NPV, constant 2002 RsMillion)

                            Developer      Govt       financial    CEB   Economic   global env.   Economic
                                                     institutions                    (15$/ton)   (with ENV)
Economic benefit                                                   154.4   154.4                     154.4
environmental benefits                                                                     6.9         6.9
costs:                                                                                                 0.0
Construction                    -75.8         4.6                           -71.3                    -71.3
Revenue                         154.4                             -154.4      0.0                      0.0
O&M costs                       -15.4         1.5                           -13.9                    -13.9
debt service:                     45.5                    -45.5               0.0                      0.0
debt service: repayment         -51.2                      51.2               0.0                      0.0

transfer payments
corporate income tax            -13.8        13.8                             0.0                      0.0
Customs duty                       0.0        0.0                             0.0                      0.0
Total                             43.6       19.9           5.7      0.0     69.2          6.9        76.1


  15.      Summary assessment. Table 3.7 shows the comparisons of ERR and FIRR at appraisal and as
  achieved to date. In order to preserve the confidentiality of the cost information, the achieved values are
  based on a representative project whose costs and performance reflect the industry average. Both the
  achieved ERR and FIRR are significantly above that estimated at appraisal, notwithstanding that CEB's
  announced avoided cost tariff likely underestimates the actual avoided cost.


  Table 3.7: Summary Assessment, mini hydro projects

                                  Appraisal (1)       Achieved
                                  EllaPitiya Ella     Generic
                                                      Project
  ERR                             18%                 25.8%
  ERR with carbon benefit         Not calculated      27.1%
  FIRR                            13%                 23.5%
  (1) GEF, Republic of Sri Lanka, Energy Service Delivery Project,
  Project Document, February 1998.


  B. Village based hydro projects

  16.      Introduction. The economic analysis of the village hydro component benefits from the survey
  conducted by A. C. Nielson, which surveyed 100 village hydro system (VHS) beneficiaries, and which
  permits more precise assessment of benefits than was possible at appraisal. They also surveyed 30 village
  hydro systems. In additional, the records of DFCC that record all the loan disbursements under ESD
  provide further information. On the other hand, because of generally inadequate record-keeping of kWh
  generation by the village cooperatives, it is difficult to precisely determine achieved actual monthly and
  annual capacity factors, which serve as an important cross-check of benefits as revealed by the surveys of
  the beneficiaries.

  17.      Assumptions and ERR at appraisal. The following key assumptions were made at appraisal for
  the calculation of the ERR and FIRR: capital cost: 2,023$/kW; O&M cost : 1% of capital cost; Discount
  rate: 12%; Installed capacity: 15kW; Capacity factor: 50%; GEF Grant: 400$/kW (6,000$ for a 15kW



                                                            - 36 -

system); Number of customers per system: 150; Benefit per kWh: 5.4 UScents/kWh. Based on these
assumptions, the ERR as reported in the PAD was calculated at 12%, exclusive of all grants (Table 3.8).




                                               - 37 -

Table 3.8: ERR at appraisal

                                   NPV       1996   1997     1998   1999   2000    2001     2002   2003    2004
                                                0       1       2      3      4        5      6       7      8
capital cost     2024 [$/kW]
kW                 15 [kW]
GEF                    [$US]         5357    6000
capital costs          [$US]        -27102  -30355
O&M costs        0.8% [$US]          -1680          -252     -252    -252   -252    -252    -252   -252    -252
total costs            [$US]        -23425  -24355  -252     -252    -252   -252    -252    -252   -252    -252
capacity factor 0.500 [     ]
benefit/kWh     0.054 [$/kWh]
benefits               [GWh/year]                  65700    65700   65700 65700   65700    65700  65700   65700
                       [$US]         23643          3545     3545   3545   3545    3545     3545   3545    3545
total flows            [$US]           218  -24355  3293     3293   3293   3293    3293     3293   3293    3293
ERR                    [    ]       12.2%

 Note: Extract, all ERR calculations done for 20 years of operation.

18.        Achieved Capital costs. The completed project costs reported by the Survey of VHS are shown in
Figure 2.1, and show an average capital cost of $1,892/kW.12 This compares to the economic capital cost
assumed at appraisal of $2,023/kW.

19.        Capacity factor. As noted, the records of kWh actually produced are sparse, notwithstanding
instructions given to the operators by the developers and consultants that monthly readings of the kWh
meter should be entered in the station logbooks. Actual meter readings were available for only 7 of 30 VHS
systems. The period of operation could be inferred from 17 projects from knowledge of commissioning
dates to derive average annual kWh, and hence estimate the average capacity factor. However, even in this
case, the capacity factors estimated for two of the VHS are unlikely (0.23 and 0.14) and suggest that
meters were reset to zero or replaced at some point since commissioning). Nevertheless, it seems
reasonable to infer than the achieved capacity factors are in the range of 80 to 95%. These capacity factors
are substantially higher than the 50% estimated at appraisal. However, they are entirely plausible given the
design philosophy, which is to match the size of the system to the dry season flows.

20.        Clearly, if a village hydro system were only operated at a 50% capacity factor, then diesel backup
would be needed to supply year-round power. Because these systems are installed small watersheds,
generally well above gauging stations and since none of the VHS maintain records of gauged flows at the
intake; the likely monthly variation in flows can only be inferred from precipitation records which are
generally available.13 Data of monthly variation in rainfall at the Ingoya Estate, on which the design flow
for the Handunella-Atulauda VHS is based show clearly that if one matches the design flow to
January/February conditions, high annual capacity factors are achievable.

21.        Achieved ERR. Based on the VHS beneficiaries' average monthly expenditure on kerosene,
batteries, dry cells of Rs322/month, and setting these equal to the benefit measure; and using the actually
achieved capital cost of $1900/kW, then with the GEF grant taken as a benefit, the ERR for the same VHS
(15kW, 150 households) as used at appraisal works out at 25.2% (Table 3.9). However, since the grant is
not paid until the system is in place, the timing of the grant should be in year 1 (rather than year zero),
which results in a reduction of ERR to 23.9%. Without the GEF grant component, the ERR is 19.6%.
The implied valuation per kWh is 5.7 UScents/kWh.




                                                       - 38 -

___________________________________________
12. Where the reported Rs costs are dived by the exchange rate of the year in which the projects were completed.
13. None of the feasibility studies that were sighted contained estimates of monthly flows at site.




                                                             - 39 -

Table 3.9: Achieved ERR (sample calculation, no GEF grant)


                                              1996    1997    1998     1999    2000     2001    2002    2003  2004
                                                 0       1       2        3        4       5       6       7    8
 capitalcost     1900 [$/kW]
 kW              15.0 [kW]
 GEF                   [$US]             0               0
 capitalcosts          [$US]        -25446 -28500
 O&Mcosts        0.8% [$US]          -1578             -237   -237     -237     -237    -237     -237   -237  -237
 totalcosts            [$US]        -27024 -28500      -237   -237     -237     -237    -237     -237   -237  -237
 capacityfactor 0.800 [    ]
 benefit/kWh     0.057 [$/kWh]
 benefits              [GWh]                        105120 105120 105120 105120 105120 105120 105120 105120
                       [$US]        39850             5975    5975     5975    5975     5975    5975    5975  5975
 totalflows            [$US]        12826 -28500      5739    5739     5739    5739     5739    5739    5739  5739
                      [    ]        19.6%
 Household expenditure [Rs/month]     322
 totalexpenditure      [Rs/year]   579600
                       [$US/year]   5975.3


Summary assessment

22.       Table 3.10 shows the comparisons of ERR and FIRR at appraisal and as achieved to date. The
achieved ERR is significantly greater than that estimated at appraisal. The achieved ERR is greater than
that estimated at appraisal for three main reasons. First, capacity factors are significantly greater in
practice than as estimated at appraisal, a consequence of the design approach followed by the leading
consulting firms and developers which calls for systems to be sized on the basis of the available average
dry season flow. Second, actual capital costs are slightly lower than estimated. Finally, expenditures for
kerosene and battery prior to electric service have increased significantly since 1996 as a consequence of
real income gains (and by more than the CPI), and consequently the willingness to pay for electric service is
higher. . Economic returns are even higher when additional consumer benefits are taken into account
(based on estimates of the demand curve for the first tranche of high-valued electricity used for lighting and
TV viewing, as verified for SHS beneficiaries).


Table 3.10: Summary Assessment, village hydro

                                           Appraisal(1)       Achieved        Achieved
                                                           (benefits at       (with
                                                          avoided costs     consumer
                                                              only)          surplus
                                                                            benefits)
Economic
ERR (without GEF)                             12%             18               54
Costs (NPV at 12%), $USmillion               23400
Benefits (NPV at 12%), $USmillion            23316
Net benefit, $USmillion                       -684
ERR (with GEF grant)                                          22               61



                                                     - 40 -

Financial (to VHS)
FIRR                                                  22%                *
Costs (NPV at 12%), $USmillion                       17,487               *
Benefits (NPV at 12%), $USmillion                    26,633              *
(1)       GEF, Republic of Sri Lanka, Energy Service Delivery Project,
                      Project Document, February 1998.
                       * not possible to estimate actual FIRR.


C. Solar home systems

23. ERR and FIRR at appraisal. The PAD economic and financial analysis is for a subproject that would
serve 2200 medium income rural homes (target income greater than Rs3000/month) in the Galle district,14
with a market share of 30% 30Watt systems, 40Watt systems 40%,15 and 50Watt systems 30%. The
values estimated in the PAD are ERR=12% and FIRR=19%.

24. In the ICR we follow the methodology recently developed for the Philippines Rural Energy Project,16 in
which we assess benefits not only as replacement costs, but also on the basis of the gain in consumer
surplus. This approach resolves the problem that the financial returns to the homeowner are in fact
negative, because the cost of the PV system is invariably greater than the kerosene and battery costs it
replaces. Yet homeowners are demonstrably willing to incur the higher financial costs of a solar system,
because they place great value on the improved quality of lighting, and the greater convenience of being
able to watch TV without the hassle of battery charging.

25. Achieved ERR. Table 3.11 shows the achieved ERR using avoided costs as the measure of benefits.
These avoided costs are based on the findings of the AC Nielson survey, which show an average monthly
expenditure on kerosene and battery charging prior to installation of SHS at Rs495/month (Rs5940/year).
The ERR is 7.7%, and the FIRR (from the perspective of the homeowner) is -4.5%.17 This result is
consistent with those found elsewhere, when avoided costs are used as the measure of economic benefit: in
the Philippines, the ERR of a similar sized (40Wp) SHS was found to be 11.7%, similarly below the hurdle
rate (though in the Philippines, 15% rather than 12% is used).



______________________________________
 14. The PAD notes for the financial analysis "given the focus on private sector provision of renewable energy services, the
financial analysis incorporated elements of concern to private investors such as inflation, taxes, duties and financing terms and
conditions. Present values of benefits and costs are given in nominal terms." It is not entirely clear from whose perspective the
FIRR is calculated.

15. The PAD actually states 42% in 40 Watt systems, but we assume this means 40% to bring the total to 100%.

16. P. Meier, Economic Analysis of Solar Home Systems: A Case Study for the Philippines, World Bank, Asia Alternative
Energy program (ASTAE), February 2003.

17. The critical assumptions include: four year loan at 24% interest, with 25% down payment; discount rate 12%; VAT on
SHS at 11% of retail price; Tax component of kerosene price limited to National Security Levy (1.23Rs/liter); and Solar home
system retail price Rs 46,000 (for a 45Wp system).




                                                              - 41 -

Table 3.11: Economic and financial returns based on avoided costs


                               [unit]        NPV        1     2      3      4      5     6     7     8
costs of PV system
down payment                   [Rs]         10268   11500
GEF[to consumer]               [Rs]             0       0
Govt.Grant[to consumer]        [Rs]             0       0
loan principal                 [Rs]         30804   34500
finanancial cost               [Rs]        41071  46000
finance                        [Rs]         38217          16905 14835  12765  10695
loan repayments                [Rs]        -38217         -16905 -14835 -12765 -10695
lessVAT&duties                 [Rs]         -4107   -4600
less income tax on margin      [Rs]         -5252   -5882
less transfers                 [Rs]         -4877   -5462
economic capital cost          [Rs]        26835  30055       0      0      0      0     0

O&M costs
bulbs                          [Rs]          3539           582    582    582    582    582   582  582
controller                     [Rs]          2465                                      3104
battery                        [Rs]          8566                        4753                4753
financial cost to consumer     [Rs]         14570       0   582    582   5335    582   3686  5335  582
less VAT                       [Rs]         -1457       0    -58    -58   -534    -58  -369  -534   -58
economic O&M costs             [Rs]         13113       0   524    524   4802    524   3317  4802  524
Total economic costs           [Rs]        39948 30055     524    524   4802    524   3317  4802  524

benefits at avoided costs
kerosene consumption           [litres]      1314           216    216    216    216    216   216  216
kerosene                       [Rs]         32118          5282   5282   5282   5282   5282  5282  5282
battery&charging expenditure   [Rs]          4006           659    659    659    659    659   659  659
dry cell expenditures          [Rs]             0             0      0      0      0     0     0     0
hurricane lamp                 [Rs]             0       0                   0                  0
petromax lamp                  [Rs]             0       0                          0
wick, gauzes                   [Rs]             0             0      0      0      0     0     0     0
total, financial               [Rs]         37437       0  5940   5940   5940   5940   5940  5940  5940
kerosene duties                [Rs]         -1616           -266   -266   -266   -266  -266  -266  -266
VAT                            [Rs]             0
avoided costs, economic        [Rs]        35822        0  5675   5675   5675   5675  5675  5675  5675

Net economic flows             [Rs]         -4126 -30055   5151   5151    873   5151  2357   873  5151
ERR                            [   ]                7.7%
net financial impact on consumers
PV system                      [Rs]         63054   11500  17487 15417  18100  11277   3686  5335  582
Replacement                    [Rs]         36124       0  5940   5940   5940   5940   5940  5940  5940
net flow                       [Rs]        -26930  -11500 -11547  -9477 -12160  -5337  2254   605  5358
FRR                            [ ]                  -4.5%

Notes: Kerosene duty=National security levy, assumed at average 2002 value of Rs1.23/litre
           Extract only: Calculations done to 15 year assumed lifetime of SHS


26. Reconciliation of economic and financial flows among the various stakeholders shows that GEF is a
source of funds, and shows up as a financier; while Government is a net beneficiary, since the VAT levied
on the SHS (paid by the dealers) significantly exceeds any VAT on kerosene lamps and battery charging,
and the National Security Levy on Kerosene. The financial flows to the individual homeowner show
significantly higher costs during the early years (that require the down payment and the debt service
payments).

27. Given the demonstrated willingness-to-pay for SHSs, whose cost is greater than the replacement costs,
the economic returns must be higher than those assessed purely on the basis of the replacement costs. This
can be captured by assessing the gain in so-called consumer surplus. Figure 3.1 shows the actual demand
curve for lighting as estimated for a homeowner purchasing a 45Wp system.


Figure 3.1: Demand curve for lighting (based on 45Wp PV system)




                                                                - 42 -

                             0.012




                             0.01


                                                   B=979                             C=296
                             0.008




                             0.006


    [Rs/lumen-hr]
                             0.004                 D=4303                            E=2955


                             0.002




                                0
                                  0             200           400                 600         800        1000
                                                             1000 lumen-hours/year




28.                              The corresponding set of consumer surplus calculations are shown in Table 3.12, with the
distribution of costs and benefits as shown in Figure 3.2.


Figure 3.2: Distribution of costs and benefits


                               40


                                                                                                            37.0

                               30




                               20


                 [Rs1000]           TV/radio:7.8

                         NPV,  10                     11.7            11.8
                                     lighting:7.7
                                                                                      4.8
                                0

                                                                                                 -6.8

                              -10
                                       consumer      dealers          govt             FIs       GEF        total




                                                                                    - 43 -

Table 3.12: ERR with consumer surplus benefits



     Consumer surplus                poor households: 45Wp system
                                     [unit]              NPV        1       2     3      4        5       6       7       8
     Lighting costs, PVsystem
[1]  Allocated costs                                     70%
[2]  PV costs [financial]            [Rs]              44138      8050  12241 10792  12670     7894     2580    3735     407
[3]  . . levelised                   [Rs]              44138      6329   6329  6329    6329    6329     6329    6329    6329
[4]  PV lighting                     [lumen-hours]    5593422       0  919800 919800 919800 919800   919800   919800 919800
[5]  P[PV]                           [Rs/lumen-hr]     0.0079
[6]  area [D+E]                      [Rs/year]           7258
[7]  Lighting costs, Kerosene
[8]  Fuelcost                        [Rs]                           0    5282  5282    5282    5282     5282    5282    5282
[9]  wick lamp                       [Rs]                           0       0     0      0        0       0       0       0
[10] petromax lamp                   [Rs]                           0       0     0      0        0       0       0       0
[11] wick, gauzes                    [Rs]                                   0     0      0        0       0       0       0
[12] total costs                     [Rs]              32118        0    5282  5282    5282    5282     5282    5282    5282
[13] Kerolighting                    [lumen-hours]    3315928          545282 545282 545282 545282   545282   545282 545282
[14] P[KERO]                         [Rs/litre]        0.0097
[15] area [B+D]                      [Rs/year]           5282
[16] Radio/TV: PV system
[17] allocated costs                                     30%
[18] PV costs [financial]            [Rs]              18916      3450   5246  4625    5430    3383     1106    1601     175
[19] .. levelised                    [Rs]              18916      2712   2712  2712    2712    2712     2712    2712    2712
[20] PV non-lighting                 [VL-hours]        11098             1825  1825    1825    1825     1825    1825    1825
[21] P[PV]                           [Rs/TV-hr]           1.7
[22] area [D+E]                      [Rs/year]           3111
[23] Radio/TV: battery
[24] total costs                     [Rs]                4006       0    659     659    659     659      659     659     659
[25] PV non-lighting                 [VL-hours]          1665            274     274    274     274      274     274     274
[26] P[battery]                      [Rs/TV-hr]           2.4
[27] area [B+D]                      [Rs/year]            659
[28] Net economic flows
[29] Lighting[see chart]
[30] total benefits [B+C+D+E]        [Rs/year]         51887        0    8532  8532    8532    8532     8532    8532    8532
[31] total costs [D+E]               [Rs/year]         44138      6329   6329  6329    6329    6329     6329    6329    6329
[32] net consumer benefits, lighting [Rs/year]           7749    -6329   2203  2203    2203    2203     2203    2203    2203
[33] TV/radio
[34] total benefits [B+C+D+E]        [Rs/year]         26708             4392  4392    4392    4392     4392    4392    4392
[35] total costs [D+E]               [Rs/year]         18916      3450   5246  4625    5430    3383     1106    1601     175
[36] net consumer benefits, TV/Radio [Rs/year]           7792    -3450   -854   -233  -1038    1009     3286    2792    4217
[37] total consumer surplus          [Rs/year]         15541     -9779   1349  1970    1165    3212     5490    4995    6421
[38]                                 [ERR]                      30.7%
[39] total financial costs           [Rs/year]         -63054   -11500 -17487 -15417 -18100  -11277    -3686   -5335    -582
[40] total CS benefit                [Rs/year]         78595        0   12924 12924  12924    12924   12924   12924   12924
[41] net financial flows             [Rs/year]         15541    -11500  -4563  -2493  -5176    1647     9238    7589  12342
[42]                                 [ERR]                      21.1%
[43] economic cost adjustment        [Rs/year]             -0   -30055   4413  4413    4413    4413     4413    4413    4413
[44]                                 [Rs/year]         15541    -41555   -150  1920    -763    6060   13651   12002   16755
[45]                                 [ERR]                      16.8%
[46] . . less net govt. subsidies    [Rs/year]         11795     13211
[47] . . less GEF subsidies          [Rs/year]          -6790    -7605
[48] . . plus FI surplus             [Rs/year]           4819     5397
[49] . . plus dealer surplus         [Rs/year]         11667     13067
[50] net economic flows              [Rs/year]         37032    -17485   -150  1920    -763    6060   13651   12002   16755
[51]                                 [ERR]                      31.0%
[52] with GEF as Economic benefit    [Rs/year]         43822     -9881   -150  1920    -763    6060   13651   12002   16755
[53]                                 [ERR]                      42.6%

     source:
     Extract only, calculations done for the15-year assumed life of the PV system.
     Notes
     (1) The "economic cost adjustment" of rows [43]-[45] is required because without it, the series of economic flows has
     more than one turning point (because the subsidies and other adjustments occur in year one), for which the ERR then
     becomes indeterminate. The NPV calculations are unaffected.
     (2) The adjustment for taking the GEF contribution as a benefit in year 1 is as per the World Bank procedures (OP 10.4).
     In effect one assumes that the global environmental benefit is exactly equal to this contribution, and hence benefits




                                                                   - 44 -

increase by this amount.




                            - 45 -

 29. Summary assessment. Table 3.13 shows the comparisons of ERR and FIRR at appraisal and as
 achieved to date. The NPV values at appraisal are converted to a per household value.18 For the FIRR, it
 is impossible to determine the financial returns to the dealers, since the information on their margins and
 return is confidential. The achieved ERR is significantly higher than estimated at appraisal because we use
 the gain in consumer surplus to capture the observed willingness to pay for SHS that is far in excess of the
 replacement costs of kerosene and battery charging equipment.

 Table 3.13: Summary Assessment, SHS

                                                    Appraisal(1)                   Achieved
  Economic
  ERR(without GEF)                                   Not shown                        31%
  Costs (NPV at 12%), $US.                              603                            650
  Benefits(NPV at 12%), $US                             610                            810
  ERR(with GEF grant)                                   12%                          42.6%
  Financial (for NGO subproject)
  FIRR                                                  19%                        Cannot be
                                                                                calculated, likely
                                                                                  to be 20%+
  Costs (NPV at 12%), $US                               566
  Benefits(NPV at 12%), $US                             638
  Financial (Household)
  FIRR                                             Not calculated                    -4.5%
(1) GEF, Republic of Sri Lanka, Energy Service Delivery Project, Project Document, February 1998


 D. Pilot wind farm

 30. Capital costs. At appraisal, the capital cost of the wind farm was estimated at $3.44million, or
 1,175$/kW,19 based on a 13 x 225kV configuration. The actual (completed) economic cost was $3.52
 million, based on a 5 x 600kW configuration, also at cost of 1,175$/kW. The estimated and actual costs
 are shown in Table 3.14. Construction costs are therefore satisfactorily close to those estimated at
 appraisal.

 __________________________________
 18. i.e. the values are divided by the 2,200 homes assumed to be served by the subproject.
 19. GEF, Republic of Sri Lanka, Energy Service Delivery Project, Project Document, February 1998: Annex 4A (Table 4A.2).




                                                            - 46 -

Table 3.14: Capital costs: Appraisal v. Actuals ($US 1000)


                                       Feasibility study(2)     Appraisal(3)        Actuals(1)
configuration                                13 x 225              13 x 225           5 x 600
Economic costs:
Equipment                                      3039                                    2,773
Civil works ("essential")                                                               210
Civil Works (non-essential)                                                             331
Transport                                                                               171
Other                                                                                   39
Balance of station                             755
Total                                         3,654                  3,436             3,524
(as $/kW)                                   $1,249/kW            $1,175/kW          $1,175/kW
Taxes and duties
Customs (on imports)                                                                    127
GST (on imports)                                                                        59
Defense levy (on imports)                                                               19
GST on local costs                                                                      16
Other CEB costs                                                                         52
TtoalTaxes and duties                        819(4)                   (5)
Total project cost(financial)                  4612                                    3807
(1) CEB, 3MW Pilot Wind Power Project: Analysis on Cost of Generation, PPP Branch, May 2001.
(2) RLA Consulting, Feasibility Study for a 3MW Pilot Project in Sri Lanka, Report to CEB, September 1996
(3) GEF, Republic of Sri Lanka, Energy Service Delivery Project, Project Document, February 1998.
(4) estimated at 27% of equipment cost.
(5) estimated at 10% of import cost. However, the import fraction is not given in the PAD, and therefore cannot be estimated.

31. Generation. The monthly and annual capacity factors since start-up are shown in Figure 3.3. It is
evident that the annual capacity factors achieved are significantly below the 26.7% used as a basis for
estimating the ERR at appraisal.


Figure 3.3: Monthly and annual capacity factors




                                                           - 47 -

                                       0.3

                                                   @appraisal=26.7%




                                       0.2
                                                 1999avg=17.4%


                                                                                                                      2002avg=13.8%
                                                                        2000avg=12.7%          2001avg=13.2%
    MWh/month

                                       0.1




                                         0
                                           Apr-99         Dec-99         Aug-2000       Apr-2001       Dec-2001        Aug-2002
                                                  Aug-99         Apr-2000        Dec-2000       Aug-2001       Apr-2002       Dec-2002



32.                                        However, overall annual wind speeds are somewhat lower than those assumed in the feasibility
study, as shown in Figure 3.4. The long-term average at Hambantota (1986-1995) is 5.74 m/s, as opposed
to the actually achieved average of 5.15 m/s at site (from startup to February 2003). This explains largely
the difference in the calculated rates of return.


Figure 3.4:Annual average wind speeds



                                        6.5



                                                                                    6.1
                                                               6.1

                                         6
             m/s
                                            5.8
                                                                      5.7
                                                         5.6                 5.7                5.6                              5.7
                                                   5.6                                   5.6           5.6
                                                               Feasibility Study (Hambantota)
                windspeed,              5.5                                                                         5.4

                                                                                                                          5.3
                          average
                                                                                                                     Actual, @site

                                 annual  5
                                                                                                                                      4.9




                                        4.5
                                            1986  1987  1988   1989   1990   1991  1992  1993   1994  1995         1999  2000   2001  2002



33. Economic returns. The estimated economic rates of return (ERR) are shown in Table 3.15, using the
avoided cost of 6.3 UScents/kWh assumed in the appraisal report. This value is used in the economic
analysis insofar as there are doubts as to whether the CEB tariff reflects the actual avoided costs (an issue
discussed in detail in Section 3). The 3.9% ERR (including the GEF grant) is uneconomic and significantly




                                                                                               - 48 -

below the 14.6% ERR estimated at appraisal. This difference is largely contributed to the substantially
lower wind speeds during these first years of operation. A sensitive analyses has been done with the long
term average wind speeds, the ERR is 12%.


                              Table 3.15: Estimates of ERR (including GEF)

                        NPV           1998     1999       2000      2001      2002      2003      2004     2005  2006
                                                   1         2          3         4         5         6       7
A. Feasibility study
enegry         [MWh]                           6834       6834      6834      6834      6834      6834     6834  6834

Capital Cost               -3263    -3655
GEF                          786       880
O&M costs                   -500                 -75       -75        -75      -75       -75        -75     -75   -75
total costs                -2978    -2775        -75       -75        -75      -75       -75        -75     -75   -75

benefits         0.0634     2891                 433       433       433       433       433       433      433   433

total flows                  -87    -2775        358       358       358       358       358       358      358   358
ERR                      11.4%
B. Appraisal Report
energy         [MWh]                           6841       6841      6841      6841      6841      6841     6841  6841

Capital Cost               -3069    -3437
GEF                          786       880
O&M costs                   -229                 -34       -34        -34      -34       -34        -34     -34   -34
total costs                -2512    -2557        -34       -34        -34      -34       -34        -34     -34   -34

benefits         0.0634     2893                 434       434       434       434       434       434      434   434

total flows                  381    -2557        399       399       399       399       399       399      399   399
ERR                      14.6%
C. Actuals
energy         [MWh]                           3459       3362      3455      3644      3480      3480     3480  3480

Capital Cost               -3069    -3437
GEF                          786       880
O&M costs                   -229                 -34       -34        -34      -34       -34        -34     -34   -34
total costs                -2512    -2557        -34       -34        -34      -34       -34        -34     -34   -34

benefits         0.0634     1470                 219       213       219       231       221       221      221   221

total flows                -1042    -2557        185       179       185       197       186       186      186   186
ERR                        3.9%


34. Financial returns. Table 3.16 shows the financial analysis, based on the actual capital and operating
costs (and actual level of GEF grant), actual generation, and financing assumptions as at appraisal: income
tax: zero; 50:50 debt equity; 17 year loan term, 2 years grace, 13% interest; depreciation period:3 years;
and, tariff at actual CEB avoided cost tariff.

The resulting FIRR, -2.1% is significantly below that estimated at appraisal, again for the obvious reason



                                                    - 49 -

of the low achieved capacity factor because of the below average wind speeds.

These are not the most realistic assumptions for purposes of gauging private sector interest. Better would
be the assumption of supplier credit financing for equipment, say 7 year loan at 8% with a 30:70
equity:debt ratio; income tax at the concessionary BoI rate, and 20-year SLD depreciation. We may also
assume that at least over the next decade, the avoided cost tariff would be around 6 UScents/kWh. Under
these assumptions the FIRR compute as shown in Table 3.16.


Table 3.16: Wind-farm FIRR


Capacity factor                    Achieved          Estimated at           Good site
                                   (13.9%)        appraisal (26.7%)           33%
At actual CEB tariff
PAD assumptions                     -4.3%                 8%                 12.8%
Typical IPP                         -1.1%               9.6%                 14.2%
assumptions
At 6.3UScents/kWh
PAD assumptions                     -2.1%               12.5%                 19%
Typical IPP assumptions             0.9%                14%                  20.4%


35. Clearly, for there to be realistic private sector wind project development, sites with capacity factors of
less than 25% are required, and for FIRR around the required 20%, sites will need to be found that allow
capacity factors of more than 30%.

36. Summary assessment. Table 3.17 shows the comparisons of ERR and FIRR at appraisal and as
achieved to date. The achieved ERR and FIRR are based on the assumption that the long-term average
capacity factor is the average achieved to date. The achieved ERR is significantly below that estimated at
appraisal. The main reason for this is the mismatch of the machines actually built to the prevailing wind
regime. Measured wind speeds are also slightly lower than the long term averages of the feasibility study,
which appears to be a consequence of the lower than average wind speeds for the past two years. Actual
capital and operating costs are close to those estimated at appraisal.

Table 3.17: Summary Assessment, wind power

                                              Feasibility         Appraisal         Achieved
                                               study(1)               (2)
                                             13 x 225kW         13 x 225kW          5 x 600kW
Economic
ERR(without GEF)                                7.5%                 9.8%             0.8%
ERR with GEF                                   11.4%                 14%              3.9%
Costs (NPV at 12%), $USm                                             2.5                2.5
Benefits(NPV at 12%), $USm                                           2.9                1.5
Net benefit, $USm                                                    0.4               -1.0
Financial
FIRR                                                                 11%              0.9%
Costs (NPV at 12%), $USm                                             2.9                2.6
Benefits(NPV at 12%), $USm                                           2.8                1.5
(1) RLA Consulting, Feasibility Study for a 3MW Pilot Project in Sri Lanka, Report to CEB, September 1996




                                                          - 50 -

(2) GEF, Republic of Sri Lanka, Energy Service Delivery Project, Project Document, February 1998.




                                                          - 51 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/20/1994                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             RENEWABLE ENERGY
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             INDUSTRIAL ECONOMIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/24/1996                7    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             RENEWABLE ENERGY
                                             (3); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             INDUSTRIAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1)


 Supervision

              07/09/1997                3    ENGINEER (1); RENEWABLE          S               S
                                             ENERGY (1); INDUSTRIAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              02/19/1998                3    RENEWABLE ENERGY (1);            S               S
                                             INDUSTRIAL ECONOMIST
                                             (1); ENERGY ANALYST (1)
              08/05/1998                6    SOLAR/PV ENGINEER (1);           S               S
                                             INDUSTRIAL ECONOMIST
                                             (1); ENERGY ANALYST (1);
                                             ALTERNATIVE ENERGY ENG
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (SHS/HYDRO) (1)
              02/11/1999                7    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ENERGY ANALYST (1);
                                             ALTERNATIVE ENERGY ENG
                                             (2); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGG
                                             (1); INDUSTRIAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENERGY
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              04/03/2000                5    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S               S
                                             ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             RENEWABLE ENERGY SPEC.
                                             (2); ECONOMIST (1)

 ICR
              04/04/2003                5     RENEWABLE ENERGY                S               S



                                              - 52 -

                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); ENV.
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANGEMENT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         193.80                         524.10
  Appraisal/Negotiation              243.30                         251.80
  Supervision                        161.04                          483.1
  ICR                                   8.32                         25.00
  Total                              606.46                        1284.00




                                            - 53 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 54 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 55 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


(1)     The World Bank, Sri Lanka Energy Service Delivery Project, Project Document, February 1998
(2)     The World Bank, Renewable Energy for Rural Energy Development Project, Project Appraisal
Document, June 2002.
(3)     R. Masse, Impact on Poverty and Gender of Rural Electricifcation Programs in Sri Lanka, October
2001.
(4)     Interantional Resources Group Inc, Sri Lanka Energy Services delivery Project, Impacts
Assessment and Lessons Learned, April 2003.
(5)     AC Nielson Ltd, Statistical Baseline Survey of Renewable Energy projects, Draft Report, April
2003.
(6)     T. Siyamabalpitiya, Study on Grid Connected Small Power Tariff, Sri Lanka, Final Report, June
2001.
(7)     Grid Connected Small Power Developers Association (GCCPDA), A Policy Framework for
        Accelerated Development of Small Hydro Power, January 2002
(8)     Consultancy and Professional Services (Pvt), Feasibility Study of the Proposed Village Hydro
Project at Handunella-Atulauda, May 1999.
(9)     Consultancy and Professional Services (Pvt), Feasibility study on the establishment of a new
        village hydro project at Pathavita under Sri Lanka Energy services Delivery Project, November
        1995.
(10)    P. Meier, Economic Analysis of Solar Home Systems: A Case Study for the Philippines, World
        Bank, Asia Alternative Energy program (ASTAE), February 2003.
(11)    Ceylon Electricity Board, Wind Energy Resources Assessment, Southern Lowlands of Sri Lanka,
May 1992
(12)    Ceylon Electricity Board, 3MW Wind Power Pilot Project, Semi-Annual report on Performance,
July-December 2000.
(13)    RLA Consulting, Feasibility Study for a 3MW Pilot Project in Sri Lanka, Report to CEB,
September 1996.
(14)    T. Wiesenthal,T., P. Meier, and D. Milborrow, Statistical Analysis of wind farm costs and policy
regimes, ASTAE, Washington, DC, 2001.
(15)    P. Meier, China Renewable Energy Scaleup Programme (CRESP), Economic Analysis, Volume I,
World Bank, 2003.
(16)    Frontier Economics, Cost Benefit Analysis for Renewable Energy in Croatia, Report to the
Government of Croatia and World Bank/GEF, April 2003.
(17)    European Commission, White Paper on Renewable Energy, 1997.




                                                   - 56 -

- 57 -

