Report No. PIC1335
Project Name              Sri Lanka-Energy Services Delivery (ESD) Project
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Energy
Project ID                LKPA10498
Implementing Agencies     Ministry of Finance
Galle Face Secretariat
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka
Telephone:      94-1-549-823
Fax:      94-1-449-823
Ceylon Electricity Board
50 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone:      94-1-329-904
Fax:      94-1-449-572
Private investors (to be identified)
Date Prepared             June 17, 1996
Projected Board Date      February 18, 1997
1.   Background.  GOSL development policy places high priority on
energy and electricity development. Hydropower is the only indigenous
energy resource used for power generation on a large-scale. About
half of Sri Lanka's available hydropower potential has been developed.
The growing need to import petroleum products contributes to a
significant trade deficit. The GOSL energy strategy, endorsed by the
June 1994 National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), is to support
socio-economic development and meet basic human needs by (a) optimally
developing energy resources in a least economic cost and
environmentally sound manner; (b) developing and managing forest and
non-forest wood fuel resources; (c) improving institutional capacity
to develop and manage the energy sector; (d) promoting efficiency
pricing of energy; (e) advocating energy conservation; and (f)
diversifying energy sources and reducing dependence on imported energy
sources.  This strategy has led the GOSL to explore the use of a wider
range of energy technologies and systems including renewable energy
and demand side management (DSM).
2.   Presently, about 70t of Sri Lanka's households outside Colombo
and the Western Province are not connected to grid electricity. A
large unmet demand for electricity is indicated by the 300,000 off-
grid households who use power from car batteries that are recharged
from grid supplies. The use of traditional grid-based approaches to
meet the rural electricity demand has become increasingly expensive as
lines are extended to more dispersed populations. The high grid
extension costs have spurred an interest in cost-effective
alternatives, such as solar photovoltaics and off-grid micro-hydro
plants.
3.   The Ministry of Power and Energy and the CEB have initiated DSM



efforts to counter the rapid growth in electricity demand. While the
largest electricity demand growth is in the residential sector, the
low tariffs and large number of customers impede DSM initiatives in
this sector. The commercial building sector is more easily reached,
faced with higher electricity tariffs, and more promising for DSM.
4.   Project Objectives.   The objectives of the proposed ESD Project
are to: (a) encourage the use of environmentally sound renewable
energy technologies by the private sector, NGOs, and cooperatives for
grid and off-grid energy services; (b) reduce long-term demand for
electricity through DSM; and (c) strengthen the public and private
institutional capacity to deliver energy services through renewable
energy and DSM. In addition, the ESD Project has the global
environmental objective of mitigating carbon emissions in Sri Lanka.
5.   Project Description.   The project would include three components:
(a) the ESD Credit Line Component, (b) the Pilot Grid-Connected Wind
Farm Component, and (c) the Capacity Building Component.     The Credit
Line Component would offer medium- and long-term financing through
Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) to private sector firms,
NGOs, and cooperatives for solar PV and village-hydro pre-grid
electrification, rehabilitation of grid-connected tea estate mini-
hydro sites, and other renewable energy investments. The Pilot Grid-
Connected Wind Farm Component will finance a CEB-executed grid-
connected pilot windfarm project of approximately 3 MW. The Capacity
Building Component would provide training and technical support for
renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives by both the public
and private sector, including CEB's DSM and Pre-Electrification Units,
PCIs, and project developers.
6.   Project Implementation.   The GOSL would onlend the proceeds of
the ESD Credit Line Component to eligible PCIs, which would, in turn,
onlend these proceeds, along with complementary financing out of their
own resources, to eligible sub-borrowers. The Credit Line would
support subprojects up to 5 MW in capacity (larger projects could seek
financing through the FY96 Private Sector Infrastructure Development
Credit). An Administrative Unit (AU) located within the Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) would be responsible for record
keeping, reporting functions, and processing disbursement requests for
subloans and GEF grant funds approved by PCIs. In addition to
administering the Credit Line Component, the AU would also provide
technical support and training to subproject developers and PCIs for
ESD credit operations, and would maintain a consumer protection
facility for off-grid solar home systems and village-hydro schemes.
Private sector developers and tea estate management companies are the
likely beneficiaries for mini-hydro power plant rehabilitation
projects, which would sell power to the grid based on an avoided-cost
tariff. Private investors, NGOs, and village cooperatives would be
the beneficiaries for the solar photovoltaic and village hydro
subprojects. Beneficiaries will be responsible for sub-project
preparation, loan application, sub-project implementation, and subloan
repayments. The role of the CEB would be primarily to create the
enabling environment for facilitating the implementation of the sub-
projects, including the execution of non-negotiable power purchase
agreements for small power producers with accompanying tariff and
- 2-



grid-interconnection specifications.
7.   The Pilot Wind Farm of about 3 MW would be executed by the CEB on
an Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) contract basis,
subject to standard IDA procurement procedures. The CEB would be
responsible for facility monitoring, operation, and maintenance,
including all potential operation and/or service contracts.
8.   The Capacity Building Component would be implemented by the CEB's
DSM and Pre-Electrification Units (PEU) as well as by the ESD AU in
the DFCC. Capacity building to the CEB's DSM Unit would consist of
consulting services for DSM initiatives (including development of an
Energy Efficiency Building Code), technical training, and related
equipment and systems. Capacity building to the CEB's PEU would
broaden the Unit's expertise and abilities. Capacity building to
support the ESD Credit Line would consist of assistance to PCIs for
training in appraisal of subprojects and project preparation
assistance to off-grid project developers.
9.   Project Sustainability.   Sustainability of the proposed Project
would be assured through an enabling regulatory environment,
strengthened institutions, and appropriate incentives and returns for
stakeholders. The Project would help create a favorable regulatory
environment through implementation of the standardized Small Power
Purchase Agreement (SPPA) for small private power producers and
Published Power Purchase Tariff (for facilities with capacities no
greater than 5 MW). The Project would also strengthen CEB's DSM and
renewable energy planning, advisory and coordination capacity, enhance
the capabilities of the banking sector to support alternative energy
project implementation, support the growth of a commercial
infrastructure and utilize locally-based institutions to deliver off-
grid energy services. Project sustainability will be supported through
agreed monitoring and implementation actions, including an AU-operated
consumer protection facility for off-grid systems. Due to the
innovative nature of the Project, the Mid-Term Review will be scheduled
early (about eighteen months after effectiveness) to allow the
opportunity for mid-course corrections if necessary. IDA will also
monitor Project implementation on the basis of periodic reports from the
AU and the CEB, annual independent audits of AU-operated special
accounts, and through IDA supervision missions.
10. Project Cost and Financing. On a preliminary basis, it is
estimated that the total financing requirement for the Project will be
approximately US$ 58.0 million of which about US$ 26.0 million is
proposed for the IDA Credit, US$ 7.3 million from a GEF Grant, and the
balance from the private sector, PCIs and the GOSL.
11. Environmental Aspects. The proposed Project would have net
positive effects on the environment. Off-grid electrification
subprojects would reduce use of kerosene and lead-acid automotive
batteries, thus benefiting the environment and reducing health hazards.
Because of their small size and the fact that civil works are already in
place in most cases, the grid-connected tea estate mini-hydro
subprojects are unlikely to cause significant environmental damage or
require resettlement. The run-of-river village hydro projects are even
-3 -



less likely to have negative environmental impacts. Power generated by
grid-connected renewables or saved through DSM would result in
corresponding reductions in emissions from the burning of fossil fuels.
The PCIs would ensure that GOSL and IDA-mandated environmental and
resettlement clearances are obtained, as necessary. The Project has
been assigned a "B" environmental classification.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 19, 1996.
- 4 -



