Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2938 CE
                            GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 028955 CE
                             Project Agreement
                   (Energy Services Delivery Project)
                                   among
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                   and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
             acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global
                           Environment Facility
                                   and
                         CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
                           Dated April 22, 1997
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2938 CE
                             GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 028955 CE
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1997, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an Implementing Agency of the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) and CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD (CEB).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,900,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that CEB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agree-
ment (Grant Agreement) of even date herewith between Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (the Recipient) and the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) acting as an
implementing agency of the GEF, the Bank has agreed to make available
Page  2
to the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent to four
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,200,000)
(the Grant) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant
Agreement;
     (C)  Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by CEB
with the Borrower's assistance, and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to CEB part of the proceeds of
the credit (under the subsidiary loan agreement referred to in
Recital (D) below) and part of the proceeds of the Grant, as
provided in this Agreement;
     (D)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and CEB, a part of the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to CEB on the terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary
loan agreement; and
     WHEREAS CEB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                               ARTICLE II
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) CEB declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B and C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
standards and practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the carrying out of Parts B and C of the
Project.
     (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association, the Bank and CEB shall
otherwise agree, CEB shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) CEB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the
Project Agreement and Parts B and C of the Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions,
and without limitation thereto, CEB shall prepare and furnish to the
Association and the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Association and the Bank and CEB, a plan satisfactory to
the Association and the Bank for the future operation of Parts B and
Page  3
C of the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) CEB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, CEB shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof;
     (b)  CEB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the performance of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     (c)  CEB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the performance by
CEB of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.05. (a) CEB shall, at the request of the Association
or the Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank with
regard to the progress of Parts B and C of the Project, the per-
formance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Grant.
     (b)  CEB shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts B and C of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit and the Grant, or the performance by CEB of
its obligations under this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations of CEB
     Section 3.01. (a) CEB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
     (b)  CEB shall at all times maintain its corporate existence
and the right to carry on its operations and take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
     Section 3.02. (a) CEB shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
     (b)  Except in normal course of business, CEB shall not sell,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets
which shall be required for the efficient operation of its business.
     Section 3.03. CEB shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) CEB shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Parts B and C of
the Project and to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  CEB shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
Page  4
               and related statements) including those for the
               Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association and the Bank, as soon as
               available but in any case not later than (A) four
               months after the end of each such year certified
               copies of its unaudited financial statements for
               such year; and (B) six months after the end of each
               such year certified copies of its financial state-
               ments for such year as so audited, together with the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
               and in such detail as the Association and the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
               information concerning said records, accounts and
               financial statements as well as the audit thereof
               as the Association shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     Section 4.02. CEB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including the currency of the Borrower)
used in its operations.
                               ARTICLE V
                     Effective Date; Termination
                     Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement and the
Grant Agreement become effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and the Bank and CEB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
         (i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
              and the Grant Agreement shall terminate in accor-
              dance with their terms; or
        (ii)  a date twenty (20) years after the date of this
              Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement or the Grant Agreement
terminates in accordance with its terms before the date specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association and the Bank
shall promptly notify CEB of this event.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                          Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
Page  5
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA)
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                    82987 (FTCC)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:          Telex:
               INTBAFRAD          197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.   248423 (RCA)
                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                   82987 (FTCC)
     For CEB:
          Ceylon Electricity Board
          P.O. Box 540
          Colombo, Sri Lanka
          Cable address:          Telex:
               KILOWATS           21368 Kilowatts CE
               Colombo
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of CEB may be taken or executed by its General Manager,
or by such other person or persons as CEB shall designate in writing,
and CEB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
     Section 6.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to CEB, and so long as the Development Credit Agreement
shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the Grant
Agreement:
     (a)  the obligation of CEB to consult with, and furnish infor-
mation, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the
Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance in respect of
such obligations is rendered to the Association;
     (b)  the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to CEB shall be satisfied to the extent such
obligations are satisfied by the Association; and
     (c)  all actions taken (including giving of approvals or
granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the
Development Credit Agreement and the Grant Agreement, and in the
name and on behalf of the Association and the Bank.
Page  6
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                 AND DEVELOPMENT
               acting as an Implementing Agency of the
               Global Environment Facility
               By /s/ Fakhruddin Ahmed
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            South Asia
               CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
               By /s/ Jayantha Dhanapala
                                            Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                          Implementation Program
1.   CEB shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, the
carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank, and furnish to the Association and the
Bank no later than two months prior to the date specified in
paragraph (c) below, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to para-
graph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carry-
ing out of Parts B and C of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achieve-
ment of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date;
     (c)  review with the Association and the Bank, on the earlier
of the date which is two years from the date of this Agreement or
the date on which amounts authorized for withdrawal from the Credit
Account in respect of Part A of the Project total the equivalent of
$10,000,000 (or such later date as the Association and the Bank
shall request), the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of Parts B and C of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of the said report and the Association and the
Bank's views on the matter; and
     (d)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after commissioning of the Pilot Wind Farm under Part B of
the Project, a report on the execution and initial operation of
Part B of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
Page  7
be derived from it, and the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under this Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit in respect
of Part B of the Project.
2.   CEB shall assist throughout the duration of the Project, in
the carrying out of all reviews (including the Mid-Term Review)
to be undertaken in accordance with Part B of Schedule 5 of the
Development Credit Agreement and to this end shall promptly make
available all staff, records and information deemed necessary or
desirable by the Borrower and the Association for the carrying
out of each review.
3.   CEB shall implement Part C of the Project in accordance with
the Pre-electrification Unit Terms of Reference and the Demand
Side Management Unit Terms of Reference agreed with the Association
and the Bank, as such Terms of Reference may be amended from time
to time with the agreement of the Association and the Bank.
4.   In respect of Part B of the Project (Pilot Wind Farm), CEB
shall:
     (a)  maintain oversight and management arrangements satis-
factory to the Association and the Bank, such arrangements to
include a Project Manager with experience, skills and qualifi-
cations satisfactory to the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank to supervise and coordinate implementation;
     (b)  except as the Association may otherwise agree, ensure
that operation of the Pilot Wind Farm commences no later than
June 30, 1998, and monitor the initial operation of the Pilot
Wind Farm by the contractor;
     (c)  thereafter assume the contractor's responsibility for
Pilot Wind Farm operation and performance; and
     (d)  prepare semi-annual reports satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation on Pilot Wind Farm operation and performance, such reports
to be made publicly available.
5.   In respect of Part C of the Project (Capacity Building), CEB
shall maintain oversight and management arrangements satisfactory
to the Association, and shall:
     (a)  promptly implement any required activities identified
during each review undertaken with the Borrower and the Associa-
tion in accordance with Part B of Schedule 5 of the Development
Credit Agreement through its Pre Electrification Unit;
     (b)  by March 31, 1998, engage consultants as necessary to
assist in the preparation and dissemination of a guide for
practical implementation of grid-interconnection/integration
requirements, and, thereafter, in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to the Association, engage consultants as necessary
to enhance CEB's capability to facilitate and encourage econo-
mically and technically viable renewable energy projects via
improved rural electrification coordination, off-grid renewable
energy project development training, non-dispatchable power source
modeling and planning, and mini and village-hydro project develop-
ment assistance;
     (c)  by  September 30, 1997, engage consultants as necessary
to assist in preparing and developing a demand side management
(DSM) Implementation strategy and a Load Research Program to
support DSM unit programs and provide copies of the resulting
strategy and programs to the Borrower and the Association for
review and comment; and
     (d)  by December 31, 1997, engage consultants as necessary
to assist in the preparation and development of a Code of Practice
for Energy Efficiency in Commercial Buildings.
Page  8
6.   CEB shall annually update its small power purchase tariff in
accordance with the methodology adopted by CEB's Board of Directors
in December 1996, using the data sources agreed with the Association.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods,
works and services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provision shall apply to goods, works and services
to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
     Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic
     Contractors
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic
contractors.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per con-
tract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent
and works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per con-
tract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   International or National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per con-
tract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per con-
tract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent,
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agree-
ment acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers
the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  9
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
Parts B and C of the Project shall be furnished to the Association
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such pro-
curement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to the Engineer, Procure and Construct Contract
under Part B of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consul-
tant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such con-
tracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consul-
tants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as shall have been agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Asso-
ciation review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection pro-
cedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However,
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a)
the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature,
as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
