Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2938 CE
                         Development Credit Agreement
                      (Energy Services Delivery Project)
                                    between
                   DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                      and
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated April 22, 1997
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2938 CE
                         DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1997, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) a grant (the Grant) in an amount equivalent to four
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,200,000)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(the Grant Agreement) of even date herewith, entered into between
the Borrower (therein referred to as the Recipient) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as an
implementing agency of the GEF (the Bank); the Borrower and the
Association intend, to the extent practicable, that the proceeds
of the Grant provided for in the Grant Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures in respect of Parts B and C of the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made;
     (C)  Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by the
Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) with the Borrower's assistance, and
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
CEB part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agree-
Page  2
ment; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Bank and CEB;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Act" means the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of
1969 as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Administration Agreement" means the agreement between
the Borrower and the AU (as hereinafter defined) for the admini-
stration of Part A of the Project in accordance with the provisions
of Schedules 5 and 6 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Administration Agreement;
     (c)  "Administrative Unit" or "AU" means the Administrative
Unit appointed by the Borrower with the concurrence of the Asso-
ciation, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
Administration Agreement and responsible for administering Part A
of the Project;
     (d)  "AWDR" means the Average Weighted Deposit Rate, namely
the weighted average of the interest rates paid to depositors by
all commercial banks on interest-bearing term deposits, as issued
weekly by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
     (e)  "CEB" means the Ceylon Electricity Board, a statutory
corporation established pursuant to the Act;
     (f)  "free-limit Subloan" means a Subloan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit Subloan pursuant to the provisions
of Part II (A) paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
     (g)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a
Participating Credit Institution (as hereinafter defined) proposes
to make or has made a Subloan (as hereinafter defined);
     (h)  "Investment Project" means a specific development project
being either (a) a grid-connected  mini-hydro (with capacity not
more than 5 MW); (b) an off-grid village hydro; (c) a solar home
system; or (d) another renewable energy investment, to be carried
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
     (i)  "Operating Guidelines" means the operating guidelines
dated January 31, 1997 for implementation of Part A of the Project,
as such may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Association;
     (j)  "Participating Credit Institution" means any private
credit institution incorporated and operating under the laws of
the Borrower, which has met eligibility criteria satisfactory to
the Association and which has entered into a participation agree-
ment with the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Part II,
Page  3
paragraph B (3) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
     (k)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Bank and CEB, of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (l)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated September 20, 1995 and
November 3, 1996 between the Borrower and the Association;
     (m)  "Rs" and "rupees" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (n)  "Special Accounts" means both of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (o)  "Subloan" means a loan or lease financing made or proposed
to be made by a Participating Credit Institution out of the proceeds
of the Credit to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project
under Part A of the Project; and
     (p)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CEB pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan pro-
vided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit  Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
16,900,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so
agree, amounts to be paid) by a Participating Credit Institution on
account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-
loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of each of Part A and
Parts B and C of the Project, open and maintain in dollars two
special deposit accounts, being Special Account A for Part A of the
Project and Special Account B for Parts B and C of the Project, in
its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower and CEB of such later date.
Page  4
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and
at such other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 com-
mencing September 15, 2007 and ending March 15, 2037.  Each install-
ment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2017
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
for three consecutive years  the level established annually by the
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's
resources; and (ii) the Association shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay
twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred,
provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum
of five years on such repayment of principal.
     (c)  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
     (d)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
Page  5
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided
in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                        Description of the Project;
                     Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Part A of the Project with due dili-
               gence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
               priate administrative, financial, environmental and
               energy sector practices and shall provide, promptly
               as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
               resources required for Part A of the Project; and
         (ii)  without any limitation or restriction upon any of
               its other obligations under the Development Credit
               Agreement, shall cause CEB to perform in accordance
               with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
               the obligations of CEB therein set forth, shall take
               and cause to be taken all action, including the pro-
               vision of funds, facilities, services and other re-
               sources, necessary or appropriate to enable CEB to
               perform such obligations, and shall not take or per-
               mit to be taken any action which would prevent or
               interfere with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Operating
Guidelines and arrangements agreed with the Association.
     (c)  The Borrower shall relend a part of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to Parts B and C of the Project
to CEB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and CEB under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association which shall include:
          (i)  interest at a rate of not less than 13% per annum on
               the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn
               by CEB and outstanding from time to time;
         (ii)  repayment over a period of seventeen years, including
               therein a period of two years grace; and
        (iii)  the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable
               by CEB shall be equivalent in rupees of the value of
               the currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account under
               Categories 2, 3 and 4 of the table in Schedule 1
               hereto, such equivalent to be determined as of the
               respective date or dates of withdrawal.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Page  6
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect
of Parts B and C of the Project shall be carried out by CEB pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, or without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future sustainability of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to ex-
change views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to monitor the progress
of Part A of the Project and of each Investment Project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part
A of the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Accounts and the financial statements (balance sheets,
               statements of income and expenses and related state-
               ments) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than four months after the end
               of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
               financial statements for such year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and financial
               statements and the audit thereof as the Association
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with sound accounting practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
Page  7
               expenditures are retained until at least one year
               after the Association has received the audit report
               for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
               from the Credit Account was made;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records;
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit con-
               tains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals; and
          (v)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records and accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  CEB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that CEB will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of CEB to carry out Parts B and C of the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CEB or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  The AU shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Administration Agreement.
     (f)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the AU will be able to perform
its obligations under the Administration Agreement.
     (g)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the AU or for the suspension of its operations.
     (h) The Recipient shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Grant Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Either of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and CEB or the AU, as the
case may be.
     (b)  Any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (g) of
Page  8
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into by
the Borrower and CEB, respectively;
     (b)  the Administration Agreement has been entered into by the
Borrower and the AU respectively; and
     (c)  participation agreements have been entered into with at
least two Participating Credit Institutions in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph C Part II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CEB, and is legally binding upon CEB in accordance
with its terms;
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CEB in
accordance with its terms;
     (c)  that the Administration Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and the AU and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the AU in
accordance with its terms; and
     (d)  that the participation agreements signed pursuant to Section
6.01 (c) of this Agreement have been duly authorized by the Borrower
and the relevant Participating Credit Institution and are legally
binding upon the Borrower and such Participating Credit Institution
in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                   Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary or the Director General, External
Resources Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
          Colombo, Sri Lanka
          Cable address:           Telex:
               SECMINFIN           FINMIN 21409
               Colombo             FORAID 21232
     For the Association:
Page  9
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
               By /s/ Jayantha Dhanapala
                                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Fakhruddin Ahmed
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                             South Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of
the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Subloans for Part A                          60%
     of the Project:
     (a)  off-grid Investment   3,490,000
          Projects
     (b)  non off-grid Invest- 10,260,000
          ment Projects
(2)  Works (Engineer, Procure   1,470,000         75% of foreign
     and Construct contract for                   expenditures and
     Pilot Wind Farm, which                       50% of local
     includes plant, equipment                    expenditures
     and services) for Part B
     of the Project.
(3)  Consultants' Services        490,000         100%
     for Parts B and C of the
     Project
(4)  Goods for Parts B            210,000         100% of foreign
Page  10
     and C of the Project                         expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 80% of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items procured
                                                  locally
(5)  Refunding of Project         240,000         Amount due pursuant
     Preparation Advance                          to Section 2.02 (c)
                                                  of this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                  740,000
                               __________
               TOTAL           16,900,000
                               ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in accordance
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1.2 million may be made, subject to
the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, in respect
of Category 1 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
(Subloans) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after September 1, 1996 and made in respect of an Invest-
ment Project which is either a solar home system or a village hydro
Investment Project.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (a) in respect
of Part A of the Project for expenditures for goods under contracts
not exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent, for works under contracts not
exceeding $3,000,000 equivalent, and for turnkey contracts not
exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent; (b) for expenditures in respect of
Parts B and C of the Project for goods, works and services under
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (c) for consultants'
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent in the
case of firms, and $50,000 in the case of individuals; and (d) for
all training costs, under such terms and conditions as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) promote the provision
by the private sector, non-governmental organizations and cooperatives
of grid-connected and off-grid energy services using environmentally
sustainable renewable energy technologies; (ii) strengthen the
environment for implementation of demand side management; and (iii)
improve public and private sector delivery of energy services through
renewable energy technologies and demand side management.
Page  11
     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Investment Projects
     The financing of specific Investment Projects through the pro-
vision by Participating Credit Institutions of Subloans to Investment
Enterprises in the energy sector.
Part B:   Pilot Wind Farm
     Construction of a pilot grid-connected wind farm of approximately
3 MW.
Part C:   Capacity Building
     Provision of: (i) training in the form of overseas and local
workshops, seminars and classes, and (ii) technical support in the
form of consultant services and equipment for renewable and energy
efficiency initiatives.
                              *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                Modifications of the General Conditions
     For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
1.   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
2.   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
     "15.  The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth
     in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
     Agreement."
3.   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
     "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
     agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expen-
     ditures in the territories of any country which is not a
     member of the Association or for goods produced in, or
     services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
     purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
     import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge
     of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
     Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
     Charter of the United Nations.
4.   Section 6.03 is modified to read:
     "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the
     right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
     Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
     of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
     at any time, the Association determines, after consultation
     with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be
     required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out
     of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the Asso-
     ciation determines, with respect to any contract to be
     financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or
     fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of
     the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the
     procurement or the execution of such contract, without the
     Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satis-
     factory to the Association to remedy the situation, and
     establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such
Page  12
     contract which would otherwise have been eligible for
     financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any
     time, the Association determines that the procurement of
     any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
     Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
     referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and
     establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such
     contract which would otherwise have been eligible for
     financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after
     the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain
     unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, or (f) by the date
     specified in paragraph 2 (c) of Part II of Schedule 6 to
     the Development Credit Agreement, the Association shall,
     in respect of any portion of the Credit: (i) have received
     no applications or requests permitted under subparagraphs
     (a) and (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such
     applications or requests, the Association may, by notice to
     the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
     such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from
     the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to
     such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of
     such notice, such amount or portion of the Credit shall
     be canceled."
                               SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the follow-
ing provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods,
works and services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provision shall apply to goods, works and services
to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic
     Contractors
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic
contractors.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     International or National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000
equivalent, works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equi-
valent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$20,000,000 equivalent, and turnkey contracts estimated to cost
less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  13
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract financed out of a Subloan and
in the case of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more; in the case of works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $3,000,000 or more; and in the case of turnkey
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or
more; the procedures set forth in paragraphs  2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Con-
sultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such con-
tracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consul-
tants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference
for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consult-
ing firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
A.   Implementation of Part A of the Project
1.   Administration and On-lending Arrangements
     The Ministry of Finance and Planning of the Borrower (MOFP)
shall be responsible for carrying out Part A of the Project.  For
the purposes of administering the Subloan credit program under
Part A of the Project, MOFP shall cause the AU to implement Part
A of the Project in accordance with the Administration Agreement
and the Operating Guidelines.  For the purposes of on-lending to
Page  14
Investment Enterprises, MOFP shall enter into a participation
agreement with each Participating Credit Institution in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 of this Agreement.
2.   The Administrative Unit
     The AU shall be established and maintained with organization,
structure and administrative and technical functions satisfactory
to the Association, headed by a general coordinator assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications, experience
and performance shall be satisfactory to the Association.
B.   Project Reporting and Review Provisions
1.   Periodic Review
     (a)  Without limitation or restrictions upon its other reporting
requirements under Sections 9.05 and 9.06 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower, CEB and the Association shall periodically exchange
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project.  The
first such exchange of views shall take place no later than six
months after the Effective Date, and subsequent reviews shall take
place at intervals to be determined by the Association.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment, a report on
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the review period, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request. The progress report shall include, among other things:
(i) in respect of Part A of the Project, (a) a summary statistical
report on Investment Projects; (b) AU off-grid support activities;
(c) semiannual loan collection performance reports of each
Participating Credit Institution; and (d) annual audited financial
statements of the Participating Credit Institutions and auditors
reports thereon; (ii) in respect of Part B of the Project, the
work, training, procurement and wind farm performance during the
review period, and plans and budget for the succeeding review
period; and (iii) in respect of Part C of the Project, the training
and activities during the review period, and the training and
activity plans for the succeeding review period.
2.   Mid-Term Review
     The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indi-
cators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association no later than two
months prior to the date specified in paragraph (c) below, a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Association, on the earlier of the date
which is two years from the date of this Agreement or the date on
which amounts authorized for withdrawal from the Credit Account
in respect of Part A of the Project total the equivalent of
$10,000,000 (or such later date as the Association shall request),
the report referred to in paragraph (b) above, and thereafter, take
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Association's views on the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 6
Page  15
                      Terms and Conditions of, and
                Procedures for Subloans and Guidelines for
        Participating Credit Institutions and Investment Projects
Part I.   Terms and Conditions
A.   Terms for onlending by the Borrower to Participating Credit
     Institutions
     1.   Interest rate            :    variable rate equal to AWDR
     2.   Amortization Period      :    15 years, inclusive of 5 years
                                        of grace
     3.   Foreign exchange risk    :    to be borne by the Borrower
     4.   Administration fee       :    1% per annum of Credit
          to be paid by Borrower        proceeds withdrawn and
          to Administrative Unit        outstanding with respect
                                        to Part A of the Project,
                                        until the proceeds of the
                                        Credit with respect to
                                        Part A of the Project
                                        are fully withdrawn,
                                        and 0.5% per annum there-
                                        after
B.   Terms of Subloans
1.   Interest rate                :    to be determined by the
                                       respective Participating
                                       Credit Institution
2.   Amortization Period          :    up to 10 years including
                                       periods of up to 2 years
3.   Maximum amount to be         :    $3,000,000 equivalent
     financed out of Credit            per Investment Project
     proceeds
4.   Maximum percentage           :    60% of debt or lease
                                       financing provided by
                                       a Participating Credit
                                       Institution for an
                                       Investment Project
                                       eligible for financing
                                       out of the proceeds of
                                       the Credit
5.   Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain
or cause the Participating Credit Institution to obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association
and the Borrower, including the right to:
     (a)  require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards,
to obtain all required licenses and permits and to maintain adequate
records;
     (b)  require that:
          (i)  the goods, works and consultants' services to be
               financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
               procured in accordance with the provisions of
               Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
         (ii)  such goods, works and services shall be used exclu-
               sively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
Page  16
     (c)  require the Investment Enterprise to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operation and financial condition;
     (d)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents;
     (e)  require that:
          (i)  the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain
               with responsible insurers such insurance, against
               such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
               with sound business practices; and
         (ii)  without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
               insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
               acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
               financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the
               place of use or installation, any indemnity there-
               under to be made payable in a currency freely usable
               by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair
               such goods;
     (f)  obtain all such information as the Association or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
     (g)  suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise
to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Invest-
ment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the
relevant Participating Credit Institution.
C.   Adjustment of Terms
     The interest rate charged to the Participating Credit Institutions
by the Borrower shall be adjusted every six months based on the AWDR;
provided however that the Borrower may, with the Association's approval,
decide on an alternate basis for determining the interest rate payable
by such Participating Credit Institution. The administration fee to be
paid by the Borrower to the Administrative Unit may, with the Asso-
ciation's approval, be revised from time to time.
Part II.  Procedures
A.   Application Procedures
1.   No expenditures for goods or works required for an Investment
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
credit unless:
     (a)  the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Association and such expenditures shall have been
made not earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received the application and information
required under Part II (A) paragraph (2) (a) of this Schedule in
respect of such Subloan; or
     (b)  (i)  the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have
been a free-limit Subloan for which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which
the Association shall have received the request and information
required under Part II (A) paragraph (2) (b) of this Schedule in
respect of such free-limit Subloan. For purposes of this Agreement,
a free-limit Subloan shall be a Subloan as determined by the
Association for each Participating Credit Institution in terms of
the amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for
Page  17
an Investment Project.
          (ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (i)
above: (A) the first two Subloans proposed to be made by each
Participating Credit Institution; (B) the first Subloan in respect
of a solar home system investment project proposed to be made by
each Participating Credit Institution; and (C) the first Subloan
proposed to be made to an Investment Enterprise in respect of a
solar home system investment project, shall not be eligible to
be treated as free-limit Subloans.
2.   (a)  When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit Subloan)
to the Association for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association an application in form satisfactory to the Association,
together with:
          (i)  a description of the Investment Enterprise and an
               appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
               description of the expenditures proposed to be
               financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
         (ii)  the proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan,
               including the repayment period of the Subloan;
        (iii)  a statement as to the environmental impact of the
               Investment Project, including where relevant any
               remedial action to be taken with respect thereto;
               and
         (iv)  such other information as the Association shall
               reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan shall
contain:
          (i)  a summary description of the Investment Enterprise
               and the Investment Project, including a description
               of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
               the proceeds of the Credit;
         (ii)  the terms and conditions of the free-limit Subloan,
               including the schedule of amortization therefor; and
        (iii)  a statement as to the environmental impact of the
               Investment Project, including where relevant any
               remedial action to be taken with respect thereto.
     (c)  Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented
to the Association on or before December 31, 2000.
B.   Eligibility of Participating Credit Institutions and Procedures
     for, and Terms and Conditions of,  Participation Agreements
1.   Each Participating Credit Institution shall meet criteria
satisfactory to the Association in order to be eligible to parti-
cipate under the Project.
2.   Participating Credit Institution compliance with such eligi-
bility criteria shall be reviewed semiannually by the Borrower and
the Association.  If any Participating Credit Institution fails at
any time to satisfy the eligibility criteria, the Association
reserves the right to suspend Subloan authorizations under the
Project until the Participating Credit Institution has taken
specific steps to address its problems in a manner satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
3.   The Borrower shall enter into a participation agreement with
each Participating Credit Institution providing for its participation
in the Project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, including, without limitation, those outlined in this Part B
Page  18
of Schedule 6. Without limitation, the Borrower shall ensure that
each participation agreement includes provisions for the relevant
Participating Credit Institution:
     (a)  to retain responsibilities and staff satisfactory to the
Association to appraise Investment Projects and extend Subloans
under Part A of the Project;
     (b)  to apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to the
Association in the appraisals of Investment Projects; and
     (c)  to complete environmental impact assessments satisfactory
to the Association for each Subloan.
C.   Environmental and Other Standards for Investment Projects
1.   Each Investment Project shall comply with all applicable
national environmental standards and procedures.  To that end the
Borrower shall require, or shall cause each Participating Credit
Institution to require:
     (a)  each Investment Enterprise to submit evidence showing
that each Investment Project in respect of which application for
a Subloan has been made complies with all applicable national
environmental standards and procedures, such evidence to include,
where relevant, an environmental impact assessment satisfactory
to the Association and a resettlement plan satisfactory to the
Association in respect of any persons displaced or to be displaced
by such Investment Project; and
     (b)  each agreement under which a Subloan is made to include
suitable provisions obligating each Investment Enterprise sponsoring
such Investment Project to ensure compliance with such national
environmental standards and procedures.
2.   Each off-grid village hydro and solar home system Investment
Project shall comply with, respectively, the Village Hydro Speci-
fications and the Specifications for Solar Home Systems (collec-
tively, the "Specifications") on file with the Administrative Unit.
Such Specifications may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Association, provided however that any such amend-
ment shall not apply to those Investment Projects for which
applications were received prior to the date of such amendment.
                                SCHEDULE 7
                             Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of Special
Account A, Category (1) and, in the case of Special Account B,
Categories (2) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,000,000 in respect of Special Account A and an amount equiva-
lent to $100,000 in respect of Special Account B, both such amounts
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
respective Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for: (i) Special Account
A  shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
Page  19
for Part A of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
of SDR 7,000,000; and for (ii) Special Account B shall be limited to
an amount equivalent to $50,000 until the aggregate amount of with-
drawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all out-
standing special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the pro-
visions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the respective Special Account has been duly opened, with-
drawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the respective Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
               for deposits into the respective Special Account at
               such intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
               ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
               graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
               in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
               the basis of each such request, the Association shall,
               on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
               Account and deposit into the respective Special
               Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by said
               documents and other evidence to have been paid out
               of the respective Special Account for eligible
               expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
               by the Association from the Credit Account under
               the respective eligible Categories, and in the
               respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
               justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
any Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Page  20
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to, in the case of Special Account A,  Part A of the
Project and, in the case of Special Account B, Parts B and C of the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
respective Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Category for Part A of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in such Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of any Special Account:
          (i)  was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
         (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
               Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
               from the Association: (A) provide such additional
               evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
               deposit into the respective Special Account (or,
               if the Association shall so request, refund to the
               Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
               payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
               justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
               agree, no further deposit by the Association into
               such Special Account shall be made until the
               Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
               deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
