Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                         c e y
Report No. P-3352-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY, LIMIT]
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF JAMAICA
FOR A THIRD POWER PROJECT
June 7, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of -.
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(March 1982)
Currency Unit                          =        Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$1.00                                =        J$1.783
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 kilovolt (kV)                                 1,000 volts (V)
1 megawatt (MW)                        =        1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 megavolt ampere (MVa)                =        1,000 kilovolt amperes (kVa)
1 megavolt ampere reactive (MVAR)      =        1,000 kilovolt amperes
reactive (kVAR)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                  =        1 million kilowatt hours
(kWH)
I mile (mi)                                     1,609 meters (m)
1 British Thermal Unit (BTU)           =        3,969 calories (cal)
1 barrel (bbl)                         =       42 US gallons = 159 liters
1 imperial gallon                      =        4.546 liters
1 US gallon                            =        1.785 liters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPI                                    =        Consumer Price Index
GDP                                    =        Gross Domestic Product
GNP                                    =        Gross National Product
JPS                                    =        Jamaica Public Service
Company
MME                                    =        Ministry of Mining and
Energy
PCJ                                    =        Petroleum Corporation of
Jamaica
REP                                    =        Rural Electrification
Programme Limited
MPUT                                            Ministry of Public Utilities
and Transport
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
THIRD POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower and
Beneficiary:          Jamaica Public Service Company, Limited
Guarantor:              Government of Jamaica
Amount;                 US$30.5 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                  Payable in 17 years, including a grace period of
four years, at 11.6% per annum.
Loan Description:       The objective of the proposed loan is to support a
minimum investment program designed to provide ade-
quate service to existing and new customers, reduce
system outages, and promote efficient operation of
the company. The proposed loan would primarily fi-
nance the foreign exchange cost of JPS' 1982-1984
investment program, excluding ongoing works and in-
terest during construction. The program includes:
the rehabilitation of thermal generating capacity;
construction of about 25 miles of 69 kv transmis-
sion line with expansion of associated substations;
upgrading and extension of distribution equipment;
improvement of systems control and data acquisition
equipment; vehicles for operation and maintenance
of the project; and technical assistance and train-
ing to strengthen top and middle management and en-
able staff to operate and maintain the system ef-
fectively.
Risks:                  The primary risks arise from weaknesses in manage-
ment and from uncertain labor relations. The tech-
nical assistance and training component of the pro-
ject is directed at minimizing these risks. The
Jamaican Government is also attempting to improve
management/labor relations through improved econo-
mic management.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Cost
Foreign   Local   Total
…US$ million------
Generation                                   6.0       4.0     10.0
Transmission and Substations                 4.4       3.5      7.9
Distribution                                 4.9       3.2      8.1
General Property                             5.0       3.4      8.4
Technical Assistance and Training            4.1       1.0      5.1
Total Direct Cost                      24.4     15.1      39.5
Physical Contingencies                       2.4       1.5      3.9
Price Contingencies                          3.2       2.0      5.2
Total                                  30.0     18.6      48.6
Interest During Construction                 1.3       0.8      2.1
Front-End Fee                                0.5       -        0.5
Total                                 31.8      19.4 /a  51.2
Financing Plan:                     ---------US$ Million---------
Foreign   Local    Total
JPS                                1.3       19.4      20.7
IBRD                              30.5        -        30.5
Total                             31.8       19.4      51.2
Estimated Disbursements:            ---------US$ Million---------
Bank FY                              83       84       85     86
Annual                              6.1    18.2       5.8    0.4
Cumulative                          6.1    24.3    30.1   30.5
Economic Rate of Return:        23% for 1982-85 investment program
Appraisal Report:               No. 3892a-JM dated May 28, 1982
Map:                            IBRD No. 12602R1
/a Local costs include US$2.5 million in import duties for the purchase of
vehicles and electronic equipment.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY, LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF JAMAICA
FOR A THIRD POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Jamaica Public Service Company, Limited, with the guarantee of
Jamaica, for the equivalent of US$30.5 million for a Third Power Project.
The loan would have a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Development Issues and Economic
Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors in February 1982.
Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        After almost a decade of sustained decline, the Jamaican economy
appears to have reached a turning point. A new government, elected in
October 1980, is following policies designed to bring the economy out of
its long depression, and to correct serious structural weaknesses.
According to preliminary data, in 1981 total output rose by between 1% and
2%.
A. The Jamaican Economy to 1980
4.        The economy of Jamaica was affected by severe disturbances during
the 1970s. In the first years of the decade the brisk growth of the 1960s
continued, but the trend was abruptly reversed as a result of external
shocks and the impact of domestic policies. Per capita GDP declined every
year from 1973 to 1980; the cumulative decline reached 26% at the end of
the period. Externally, the increases in energy costs in 1973-74 and
1979-80, the mid-decade recession in the industrial countries that provoked
declines in export volumes and in the price of sugar and aluminum, and the
increase in interest rates in international capital markets all affected
Jamaica negatively. On the domestic front, the Government's programs to
reduce unemployment and redistribute land coincided with the deterioration
in the external environment and eventually led to an overextended public
sector and the disruption of production; at the same time drastic increases
in taxation on the bauxite alumina industry discouraged investment and
output in this important export sector. Moreover, the Government projected
an increasingly populist image, which undermined the confidence of the
private sector, both domestic and foreign, contributing to reduced
productive investment and the increased outflow of capital and skilled
migrants.
5.        The agricultural sector was one of the few sectors whose output
did not decline during the decade. Overall agricultural production in-
creased at about .7% per annum from 1970 to 1980. The major components,



- 2 -
however, showed contrasting trends: while export agriculture (largely sugar
and bananas, and also citrus, coconuts, coffee, cocoa, and spices) declined
at a rate of 4.0% per annum, domestic agriculture increased at 3.8% per
annum; these trends, to a large extent, reflected a shift in the use of
agricultural land, resulting from inadequate farmgate prices for export
crops, a deterioration in cultivation practices, deficient management, and
the unavailability of inputs resulting from the foreign exchange shortage,
to which the gradually growing overvaluation of the Jamaican dollar
contributed importantly.
6.        The role of the bauxite/alumina sector as a leading force in the
economic development of Jamaica came to an abrupt end in 1974. Between
1970 and 1974 the sector grew at an average real rate of 9.7%, continuing a
pattern established in the 1960s. Bauxite/alumina real value added fell by
37% in 1975-1976. Output recovered, particularly in 1977 and 1980 but even
in this last year sectoral value added was still 15% below the 1974 level.
Three major factors account for the decline in Jamaica's bauxite/alumina
industry: the tendency of aluminum producers to diversify their sources of
alumina supply, the 1975 recession in the industrial countries, and the
bauxite levy imposed by the Government of Jamaica in 1974, which led to a
deterioration in Jamaica's competitive position relative to that of Austra-
lia, Brazil and Guinea. Jamaica's share in the world bauxite and alumina
trade declined from 18% and 10%, respectively, in 1974, to 13% and 7% in
1979. On the credit side, the bauxite production levy increased more than
fivefold the Government revenues originating in the sector, from an average
of US$33 million in 1969-73 to US$170 million in 1974-79. In late 1979,
the Government of Jamaica negotiated an agreement with the companies that
resulted in a reduction of the levy rates.
7.        Total manufacturing production peaked in 1973; by 1980 the sec-
tor's output was 31% below the 1973 level. The general decline of the eco-
nomy caused, and was fed by, the contraction in manufacturing. Although
the apparent cause was the unavailability of imported inputs due to the
shortage of foreign exchange, frequent labor unrest, unavailability of
skilled manpower (caused by intensified emigration) and the deterioration
of the country's infrastructure compounded the sector's problems. An
unfavorable investment climate led producers to shelve expansion plans.
Although manufactured exports registered some growth during the period,
they did not compensate for the decline in the domestic economy. The
import-substituting-oriented industries set up in the 1950s and 1960s were
ill prepared to face the challenge of world markets. Besides, the
structure of incentives, resulting from a protective system based on
quantitative restrictions to imports, made sales to extraregional markets
less profitable than sales to the sheltered but limited CARICOM market, and
these in turn less profitable than sales to the domestic market.
8.        The decline in economic activity increased unemployment from 22%
in 1973 to 27-28% in 1979-80. Joblessness is even more acute for some
groups; the 1980 unemployment rates for youths aged 14 to 19 and for women
were, respectively, 60% and 39%. However, Jamaican statistics overestimate
unemployment compared to data from other countries because both the labor
force and the unemployed include non-seekers of work (those persons who
although not looking for work, wanted work and were in a position to accept
work during the survey week.) If this group is netted out, the official
unemployment rate for 1980 would be nearly halved.



- 3 -
9.        Inflation was moderate in 1970-72, but increased to 27% in 1973.
After a period of lower inflation levels, in 1978 the consumer price index
jumped 50% from December to December, reflecting the impact of the
devaluation of the Jamaican dollar during that year and the elimination of
subsidies on some consumer goods. In 1980 the consumer price index rose
29%.
Public Finances
10.       The financial performance of the Jamaican Central Government was
weak during FY73/74-FY80/81, deteriorating sharply between FY74/75 and
FY76177. Large increases in both current and capital expenditure--associ-
ated with the Government's new social programs--outpaced revenue growth.
As a result, the current account, which had registered a surplus in FY74!
75, showed a deficit equal to 6% of GDP in FY76/77; the overall deficit
increased from 8.6% of GDP to 19% of GDP in the same two year period. As
financial performance declined, the Government relied increasingly on do-
mestic financing, mostly from the banking system. During FY77/78 and
FY78/79 the Government took a number of measures to increase revenues and
control expenditures in order to correct the fiscal imbalance and stabilize
the economy. By FY78/79 the current account deficit had decreased to 2.6%
of GDP and the overall deficit to a share of 13.7%
11.       In spite of a FY79/80 program aimed to improve further the
financial performance of the Central Government, the fiscal position
weakened. The current account deficit rose to 4% of GDP and the overall
deficit increased to 12.1%. Current expenditures were higher than
projected, in part owing to higher interest payments that reflected
conditions in international capital markets but also because of the
Government's inability to restrict wage increases and spending on goods and
services, some of the latter to repair flood damage. The financial
performance of the Central Government deteriorated further in FY80/81. The
growth of current expenditures was 20%, while revenues rose only 5%. Thus,
the current account deficit increased to 8.1% of GDP and the overall
deficit rose to about 18.1% of GDP.
External Sector
12.       The balance of payments was under continuous pressure during
1973-1980. The reasons were: declining export volume reflecting unfavor-
able conditions in the international economy as well as the impact of
domestic policies; a sharply rising oil bill provoked by higher oil prices
and a lack of exploited domestic energy resources; mounting debt service
caused by increased recourse to public capital inflows aggravated by the
surge of interest rates in international capital markets; and private capi-
tal outflows caused by the deterioration in private sector confidence.
Stabilization policies adopted by the Government and the refinancing of
commercial debt in 1977 and 1978 eased the foreign exchange shortage tempo-
rarily, but the balance of payments position deteriorated further in 1979
and 1980. The large and sustained current account deficits in the balance
of payments were offset by inflows of official capital and losses in net
international reserves. At the end of 1980 total external debt outstanding
as a percent of GDP had increased to 46% from 17% at the end of 1973; net
international reserves stood at minus US$532 million, including US$114
million of commercial arrears. Gross reserves had been reduced to less
than one month's imports equivalent by the end of 1980.



-4--
B. Development Strategy
13.       A new government took office in October 1980.  The main
development problems that it is addressing include, inter alia, a
productive structure which needs repair and redirection, particularly in
the agricultural and industrial sectors; a potentially dynamic tourism
sector damaged by social and political unrest and the international
economic situation; an acute scarcity of skilled managerial and technical
personnel, particularly in the public sector, mainly as a result of massive
emigration in recent years; an unfavorable investment climate for domestic
and foreign capital, coupled with labor unrest and a deterioration of law
and order; and persistent and large deficits in both public finances and
the balance of payments.
14.       The Government's overall strategy is export-oriented and relies
on the private sector as the main engine of development. The strategy was
designed and adopted in two partly-overlapping stages. The first contained
priority actions that could be begun within two or three months and was
supported by an Extended Agreement reached in March 1981 with the IMF. The
new Government introduced radical changes in economic policy. It defined a
leading role for the private sector and immediately set itself to the task
of restoring the investment climate. A gradual deregulation of the economy
was started. This policy has two major dimensions: first, the reduction
of government involvement in commercial operations; second, the elimination
of unnecessary controls. To reduce its own involvement in production, the
Government has set up a Divestment Committee that is proceeding with the
orderly reduction of the role of government-owned commercial enterprises.
In connection with the reduction of bureaucratic controls, the Government
has focused on rent controls, import licensing, and reducing the operations
of the State Marketing Corporation. Strengthening public sector finances
was another important objective of the new policy. Expenditures, current
and capital, were restrained and additional revenues were sought,
emphasizing improved tax administration while a reform to improve the tax
system was designed and implemented. In connection with the external
sector, the initial strategy sought to finance imports needed to set in
motion the economic recovery. Resources from the IMF and special balance
of payments assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors were
obtained. Government decriminalized the informal foreign exchange market
and simplified the import licensing system.. Finally, the Government
restricted wage adjustments in the public sector to an average of 10% a
year, helping to set a mood of restraints for wage claims in the private
sector. The Government complied with the financial targets established
under the first year of the Extended Agreement; agreement on the second
year program was reached in March 1982.
15.       The second and longer term program emphasizes actions to overcome
deficiencies in Jamaica's economic structure, and is supported by Bank
structural adjustment and technical assistance loans (2105-JM and 2106-JM
respectively). The structural adjustment program provides for policy
actions in four major areas. With regard to savings and investment, the
Government seeks to increase domestic savings rates, promote increased
private investment levels, and rationalize public investment to support its
development strategy. In this context, in order to strengthen public
sector savings, the Government is now committed to eliminate the current
account deficits of the major public enterprises by FY83/84. It is also



- 5-
taking steps to improve private savings rates and to expand medium-term
credit available for domestic private investment. At the same time, a
three-year public investment program and financing plan has been approved
by the Cabinet, and a system for the periodic monitoring and revision of
the program is being established.
16.       In the area of balance of payments management, the action program
aims to achieve greater efficiency in the allocation of foreign exchange
over a period of five years by moving from a specific licensing system to a
general open license system subject to availability of foreign exchange.
The Government has proceeded with the decriminalization of the informal
foreign exchange market and the simplification and rationalization of the
import licensing system.
17.       With regard to agricultural policy, the action program comprises
a number of activities. In order to upgrade the quality of natural resour-
ces management, the Government plans to formulate specific programs for the
sale or lease of government-owned lands, to implement a program of land
classification to induce the adoption of appropriate crops, to improve ero-
sion control on hillside farms, and to strengthen water management sys-
tems. At the same time, the monopsony powers of official external market-
ing organizations have been terminated in order to permit private external
marketing of certain crops; the nonmarketing functions of the external
marketing organizations are being assessed. A campaign to eliminate prae-
dial larceny in order to assure farmers are rewarded for their work is
presently under way. A prime objective is the revitalization of the sugar
and banana industries. In this regard, the Government has terminated the
sugar cane workers' cooperatives and is planning to close two sugar facto-
ries and divest others. An action program for the rehabilitation of the
banana sector has also been formulated.
18.       In the area of industry, the Government seeks to stimulate manu-
factured exports by eliminating the anti-export bias of the manufacturing
sector, through the removal of quantitative restrictions on imports over a
five-year period. In addition, the Government has agreed to prepare an
action program for the promotion of non-traditional exports, including
measures to increase the availabilty of foreign exchange to exporters, the
provision of fiscal incentives for exports outside CARICOM, and possible
modifications to the export financing system.. Specific action programs are
also being prepared for the subsectors of garments, footwear and construc-
tion materials.
19.       In the area of bauxite/alumina, which is not specifically
included in the program supported by the Bank structural adjustment loan,
the Government seeks to expand production in conjunction with the
identification of suitable markets. The authorities are following a
four-way approach. First, they are negotiating with the bauxite companies
to use more Jamaican bauxite for their production of aluminum and also to
increase their sales to third parties. Second, the Government is
concentrating on the EEC Market, where it benefits from the Lome II
Agreement. Third, the authorities are approaching international brokerage
firms to place some of Jamaica's bauxite. Finally, the Government has
sold bauxite to the United States strategic stockpile. With regard to the



- 6 -
development of new markets, the Government has already signed a seven-year
contract with the USSR for the supply of 250,000 metric tons per year from
1984 through 1990. Other new markets are being sought.
20,       The Government's strategy in the tourism sector, which is also
not specifically included in the program supported by the Bank structural
adjustment loan, is directed at rapidly decreasing the Government's
involvement in the direct operation of hotel properties and creating an
atmosphere conducive to the private development of the sector. The
Government has also launched a major promotional effort through increasing
funding to the Tourist Board.
C. First Results: Economic Performance in 1981
21.       In 1981 the Jamaican economy grew for the first time since 1973,
with real GDP growth preliminarily estimated at 1.3%. Most major
productive sectors increased in response to a general improvement in
business confidence and the increase in the availability of imports.
Construction (6%) was the leading sector, but important gains were also
registered by tourism, domestic agriculture and manufacturing, The sectors
that did not grow were: export agriculture, where output (and exports) of
sugar continued to decline reflecting the lack of easy solutions to the
deep structural problems that affect this crop; electricity and water,
where the frequent power outages resulted in outputs lower than demands;
and Government services, where a reduction reflected the Government's
policy of reducing public sector employment to the extent of the attrition
rate of the labor force.
22.       Unemployment and inflation decreased, the former modestly but the
latter dramatically. In April 1981 the unemployment rate stood at 26.2%,
that is 1.7 percentage points less than a year before; during the
12 month period 40,000 new jobs were created.   The inflation rate declined
substantially in 1981 as a result of the increase in the availability of
goods, both imported and domestically produced; the December to December
increase in the All Jamaica Consumer Price Index was 6%, compared to an
increase of 29% in 1980. The fiscal position of the Central Government
also improved substantially. The current budgetary deficit declined from
about 8% of GDP in 1980/81 to under 4.0% in FY81/82, the result of improved
tax administration, increased receipts from the bauxite levy, and expendi-
ture control efforts. In keeping with the IMF program the level of banking
system support was substantially reduced from J$485 million in FY80/81 to
about J$140 million in FY81/82.
23.       In contrast, balance of payments performance sharply deteriorated
in 1981 with a near doubling of the current account deficit to US$410 mil-
lion, or about 14% of GDP. Exports of goods and non-factor services rose
by only 3% in nominal terms, Exports of bauxite and alumina grew only
marginally because of the depressed world market. Production (and exports)
of the two major export crops, sugar and bananas, continued the declining
trend of the last decade. Tourism, in spite of some growth, still showed
the continued effects of the negative image of 1980 and the depressed
levels of economic activity in most source countries. Imports of goods and
nonfactor services rose sharply, increasing by nearly 20% in nominal terms
and by 14% in real terms. Liberalization of licensing and foreign exchange



- 7 -
restrictions facilitated an inventory buildup, the satisfaction of pent up
consumer demand and the availability of the inputs needed to support
economic recovery. The volume of food and other consumer goods imports
rose by 41% and 35% respectively.  Capital goods imports increased by 38%
in real terms and imports of raw material were also up sharply.  The value
of fuel imports remained constant at the 1980 level; volume declined mostly
because of continued conservation efforts.
24.       Net capital inflows totaled about US$325 million in 1981.  Spe-
cial balance of payments assistance from bilateral and multilateral
sources, refinancing of debt service due in FY81/82 and FY82/83, and a new
foreign commercial bank US$71 million loan to the Government of Jamaica
permitted net public capital inflows to total US$277 million, despite a
sharp increase in amortization payments. Inflows of other capital have
also increased, primarily reflecting the rise in no-funds import licenses.
As a result of the higher capital inflows, the loss in net international
reserves was held to the 1980 level, about US$75 mi'llion. At the end of
1981 net international reserves stood at minus US$607 million.
D.  Economic Prospects
25.       The stabilization efforts and the medium-term programs launched
by the Government of Jamaica are expected to put the economy once again on
a growth course.  Real GDP growth has been projected at 3.8% in 1982, 4.9%
in 1983, and at between 4.0% and 4.5% in 1984-86. These growth rates, to
be attained through the adoption of the export-oriented development
strategy described above, would imply a strong economic performance,
especially in view of the fact that the world economy is projected to grow
relatively slowly during those years.1/ The projections imply that per
capita GDP (measured in 1980 US dollars) would reach a value of $1,442.00,
in 1986, 18% over the 1981 level, but still 13% below the 1972 peak. On
the expenditure side, these projections reflect a shift from consumption to,
investment; in this framework, private consumption expenditures would
nevertheless attain modest gains. Measured at constant prices, the share
of investment expenditures in GDP has been projected to increase from 14%
in 1981 to 19% in 1986; the share of total consumption expenditures,
private plus public, has been projected to decrease from 89% in 1981 to 79%
in 1986. A projected decline in public consumption expenditures reflecting
the Government's objective of reducing public expenditures relative to
GDP,will permit private consumption expenditures to increase 15% over the
projection period, permitting some improvement in the standard of living.
26.       The financing of the investment effort has been projected to
change its composition, in line with Government's policies.  Investment--
measured at current prices--is projected to ilncrease as a share of GDP,
rising from nearly 17% in 1981 to about 24% in the last two years of the
1/ The World Development Report IV, for example, projects "midpoint" OECD
growth at 2.5% per annum during 1980-85; this compares to 5.1% (1960-
70), 3.3% (1970-80), and 1.3% during 1980,



- 8 -
projection period. Internal savings are expected to finance a growing
portion of the capital accumulation, while external savings would finance a
decreasing share. The former are projected to increase from 3% of GDP in
1981 to 16% in 1986; the latter to decline from nearly 14% of GDP in 1981
to 7.4% in 1986.
27.       Consistent with the above growth targets, the volume of exports
of goods and non-factor services is expected to grow about 7.1% a year
during 1982-86. The volume of exports of bauxite is expected to attain
substantially higher levels in 1982-84, reflecting purchases by the US
Government for its strategic stockpile. The volume of alumina exports, on
the other hand, is expected to decline nearly 12% in 1982, but thereafter
to grow gradually to reach full capacity utilization by 1985. In 1986,
alumina exports would increase by 12%, reflecting the completion of the
Jamalco plant's 350,000 MT/year expansion. Volumes of the traditional
export crops of sugar and bananas are also expected to rise, in line with
the Government's objective of exploiting fully its guaranteed markets in
Europe and the action programs for those sectors. Reflecting their pivotal
role in the Government's export-oriented program, manufactured exports are
projected to nearly triple from a 1982 nominal value of US$116 million to
US$331 million in 1986, representing an average real growth of 15% a year.
This growth projection assumes that the sector will undergo significant
structural changes during this period. Tourism is expected to achieve
average real growth of 9% per annum as capacity utilization gradually is
increased to a nearly 70% hotel occupancy rate by 1986. After taking into
account projected changes in international prices, the nominal growth of
exports of goods and non-factor services is expected to average 14.4% a
year during the period, rising from US$1.5 billion in 1981 to nearly US$3
billion in 1986.
28.       Growth in the volume of import of goods and non-factor services
is projected at about 5% between 1982 and 1986; the nominal increase is ex-
pected to average 12.2% per annum, from US$1.7 billion in 1981 to slightly
over US$3 billion in 1986. Jamaica's fuel import bill would rise from an
estimated US$450 million in 1981 to US$724 million in 1986, Energy conser-
vation is expected to generate oil import savings in the non-bauxite/alu-
mina economy of about 20% by 1985, so that the volume of fuel imports would
increase by only 8% over the period. Outflows of investment income are
projected to average about US$360 million a year given the rapid increase
in public external debt and higher private sector remittances.
29.       The share of the current account deficit in GDP is projected to
fall gradually from 14% in 1982 to 7.4% in 1986. Net external capital in-
flows averaging about US$520 million, would be required to cover the cur-
rent account deficit, external debt amortization and an increase in inter-
national reserves. External capital requirements would peak at US$554 mil-
lion in 1984, and would fall to US$469 million in the last year of the
period. About 30% of the requirements would need to be covered by private
capital flows whose importance would increase from a share of 14% in 1982
to 39% in 1986. If these inflows are less than anticipated, the require-
ments of public capital would be correspondingly higher or the growth tar-
gets would have to be scaled down. The remaining 70% of external capital
requirements are projected to be filled by public capital disbursements
averaging US$565 million a year.



- 9 -
30.       Because of the rapid increase in public external debt in recent
years, Jamaica's debt service ratio had risen to 20.3% in 1981. The debt
burden is expected to ease, however, particularly after 1983, with the debt
service ratio falling to about 16% in 1986. The continued requirement for
public external capital results in a rising ratio of public external debt
to GDP, from a projected 52.5% share in 1981 to a high of 61% in 1983
before gradually falling in the following three years, reaching 56% in
1986. Provided Jamaica successfully carries out its economic stabilization
and recovery program, it should be considered creditworthy for continued
external borrowing, subject to close monitoring of the implementation of
the structural adjustment program described above.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
31.       The Bank has made 29 loans2/ in Jamaica totalling US$432.8 mil-
lion after cancellations. Of this amount, US$117.4 million (27%) has
been for infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power,
water supply and sewerage; US$180.8 million (42%) for program-type lending,
related technical assistance, and for a revolving fund for financing of
inputs for export industries; and the remainder has been for agriculture
and agroindustry (9%), education (9%), sites and services (3%), forestry
(3%), population and nutrition (2%), small-scale enterprises (2%), and pet-
roleum exploration (2%). At the end of 1980, Jamaica's debt to the Bank
stood at US$171 million, or 14% of external debt outstanding and disbursed;
debt service to the Bank during the year amounted to US$16.7 million, or
10% of total debt service. These shares are not expected to change sub-
stantially in the next five years. The undisbursed amount of Bank loans as
of March 31, 1982 amounted to US$136.0 million. There have been four IFC
investments in Jamaica, with the most recent being a loan in 1981 to a
flour mill company.
32.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized
infrastructure investment. Although financing for this purpose continued,
the emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to
the social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition,
housing and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In res-
ponse to the changing economic situation, a further shift in Bank lending
took place in Jamaica in the late 1970s. The priority needs of this most
recent period have been the country's critical short-to-medium balance of
payments and production requirements. Thus, the FY78 lending program con-
tained a US$30 million program loan and a US$18 million loan for the reha-
bilitation of sugar factories. The FY79 US$31.5 million second program
loan was directed at similar needs. Most of the FY79 program loan proceeds
were allocated to the financing of import needs of export industries
through the establishment of a revolving Export Development Fund. Other
FY79 lending operations included a fourth highway loan of US$16.0 million,
2! Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaica
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.



- 10 -
a small-scale industry loan of US$7.0 million, and a forestry project of
US$17 million. In the absence of a medium-term economic program, no loans
were made in FY80. In FY81, the Bank made a second loan for the Export
Development Fund and a loan for offshore petroleum exploration. FY82
lending substantially expanded to include a third education loan to
strengthen vocational and technical training (US$6.8 million), structural
adjustment and technical assistance loans of US$76.2 million and US$6.2
million respectively, in support of the Government's medium-term
development program, and a US$13.5 million loan for the development of an
industrial free zone area in Kingston.
33.       Other projects under consideration for Bank financing in FY83 are
agricultural and industrial credit projects, which would support new credit
institutions and provide medium- and long-term capital for private sector
investment, particularly in those areas which will result in increased
exports. If the Government's Program under the existing structural
adjustment loan is executed as projected and has the expected results, a
follow-up structural adjustment loan is likely to be considered for FY83.
34.       Project implementation difficulties have occurred in Bank and
other internationally financed projects. These difficulties have had three
principal causes: (i) shortage of key personnel; (ii) organizational and
structural problems in the public sector, including inadequacies in the
management systems used in planning and controlling projects; and (iii)
shortages of local financing. The difficult economic conditions of the
last several years have affected and intensified the problems in all
areas. The Government has committed itself to deal with these problems
through the structural adjustment program that it has undertaken, which
includes specific measures for improved project management, monitoring and
financing.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resources
35,       Jamaica is largely dependent on imports to meet its energy
needs. Of the total commercial energy consumption in 1980 about 91% was
provided by imported petroleum. The remainder was provided by sugarcane
bagasse (7%) and hydro power (2%). Petroleum imports in 1980 amounted to
about 15.6 million barrels, equivalent to about US$450 million, or nearly
half of Jamaica's merchandise export earnings for the year.
36.       To reduce its dependence on petroleum imports, the Government,
through the Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica (PCJ) and the Ministry of
Mining and Energy (MME), is taking a number of steps to expand and develop
indigenous sources of energy. In the area of oil and gas exploration, on
shore drilling financed with the help of an Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) loan began in November 1981 at three sites; execution of an IBRD
project (Loan 2017-JM) for drilling off the southwest coast with the
assistance of international oil companies is under way. The Government and
the Jamaica Public Service Company (JPS) are planning a hydropower
development program; the largest of the six sites (Great River) has a
potential capacity of 7.8 MW. In addition, the Government, JPS, the



- 11 -
National Water Commission and the Ministry of Agriculture are reviewing
prefeasibility studies of a water supply irrigation and electric power
project at the Blue Mountain site with a potential capacity of 55 MW.
Feasibility studies on the development of peat reserves adequate to fuel an
80-100 KW power plant for 30 years are under way; preliminary studies on
coal utilization, including conversion of existing generating capacity, are
being conducted. At the same time, a variety of renewable sources of
energy are being examined, including solar technology, wind energy, ocean
thermal and geothermal potential.
37.       The MME, supported by technical assistance from a number of
different multilateral and bilateral sources, is also promoting energy
conservation.  The Ministry is presently developing an energy accounting
system, conducting fuel use surveys and has introduced an energy audit
scheme designed to identify waste and recommend practical methods of
increasing energy efficiency. The economics of re-refining used
lubricating oils will be studied under the aegis of the Bank petroleum
exploration loan. A public education program aimed at increasing awareness
of the energy crisis was launched in April 1979 and is still under way.
38.       The Government has complemented these efforts with fiscal
measures aimed at curtailing petroleum demand and promoting efficient
energy utilization. In January 1980, overall subsidies on petroleum
products were removed. The Government periodically reviews the price of
all petroleum products, and has established a stabilization fund to cushion
consumers against short-term fluctuations in world oil prices. During the
past year, the stabilization fund has also been used as a vehicle by which
the prices of gasoline and other fully refined products subsidize the price
of fuel oil by approximately 9% of ex-refinery price. Under the provisions
of an agreement with the small, privately owned refinery, which supplies
most of the fuel oil used in the nonbauxite economy, the ex-refinery price
is set at a level which provides the refinery an operating margin. The
price paid by JPS for fuel oil, even taking into account the cross subsidy
element, is well above the Caribbean posted price (US$32/bbl. compared to
about US$23/bbl. in January 1982). Discussions with the refinery
concerning the present purchasing and pricing arrangements are under way.
The Government will also review its present energy pricing system as part
of an ongoing energy assessment study. Under the provisions of the
petroleum exploration loan, the Government has agreed to consult with the
Bank concerning the findings of the study.
39.       The development of non-petroleum energy sources and the
Goverrnment's energy conservation program have the potential of moderately
easing the country's balance of payments constraint over the medium and
longer term. Nevertheless, barring significant discoveries of oil and gas
or unforeseen technological breakthroughs, Jamaica will continue to rely on
imported petroleum to meet most of its energy requirements during the next
two decades.
Power Sector Organization and Regulation
40.       The main institutions concerned with energy in Jamaica are:  JPS
(electric power generation and distribution); the Ministry of Public
Utilities and Transport (MPUT) (regulation and financial supervision); MME



- 12 -
(energy policy, fuel pricing, conservation and research); and the PCJ
(exploration, development and marketing of petroleum and other energy
sources). JPS, which is 99% government-owned, provides monthly financial
reports to the Advisory and Monitoring Unit of MPUT, which is closely
involved in financial and investment planning for the company. Authority
for the setting of electricity rates is vested in the Ministry; in
practice, JPS files proposals for rate adjustments with the MPUT which then
analyzes them and submits them to the Cabinet for approval.
Electricitf Tariff Structure
41,       JPS's current tariff structure contains features which appear to
discourage the most efficient energy utilization, such as declining block
rates and no differentiation between peak and off-peak pricing. Under the
aegis of the second Bank power loan, JPS agreed to hire consultants to
study the structure of its tariffs in relation to the marginal cost of
supplying electricity. Subsequently, grant financing for such a study from
another source became available. The recommendations of the completed
study, however, were not based on a marginal cost analysis. At present,
the uneconomic operations of the power plants preclude a useful analysis of
the marginal cost of electricity supply. Accordingly, such a study would
be carried out upon completion of the generation rehabilitation component
of the proposed project.
Existing Facilities
42,       Total installed generating capacity at the end of 1980 was about
680 MW of which approximately two-thirds was part of the JPS system. The
remainder were captive plants owned principally by the aluminum, sugar and
cement industries. Of the electric energy generated by JPS, approximately
83% was by steam plants, 6% by gas turbines and diesel plants, and 11% by
hydroplants. The JPS transmission system consists of about 540 miles of
138 KV and 69 KV lines. There are about 5,000 miles of primary
distribution lines at voltages of 24 KV and below. The high proportion of
captive generation is caused in part by an historic difference in frequency
(most captive generating plants operate at 60 HZ while the public system
operates at 50 HZ), as well as the need of certain industries for process
steam.  The inability of the public supply system to provide a consistently
reliable service has become an increasingly, important factor. Equipment
breakdowns and poor maintenance practices have resulted in frequent power
outages in recent years.
Electricity Consumption
43.       The mining, industrial and commercial sectors, constituting
approximately two-thirds of GDP, accounted for about 75% of total
electricity consumption in 1980. The public service system supplied about
56% of total electricity consumption that year. Commercial and industrial
consumers accounted for about 56% of the public service electricity
consumption, residential consumers accounted for 31% and others (street
lighting, government, municipalities) the remaining 13%. The trend in
electric energy consumption, as measured by JPS' sales data, has paralleled
the trend in economic activity in the country. Between 1970 and 1973
electric energy sales increased at an annual rate of about 9.7% while the



- 13 -
real GDP average annual growth rate recorded for the period was 4.5%. The
slowdown in economic growth in 1973-1974 was accompanied by a similar
slowdown in electric energy sales. Energy sales which reached a peak of
1,136 GWh in 1977 declined thereafter; by 1980 the accumulated decline in
sales was about 10% while the GDP declined by about 6% in real terms during
the same period.
44.       Compared to countries at similar stages of development9, access to
electricity service in Jamaica as a whole is good. About 85% of all
Jamaican households have access to public electricity supply by virtue of
being within 100 meters of existing lines, while about 52% are connected to
the electric power system.  Prior to the establishment of the Rural
Electrification Program Limited (REP) in June 1975, only about half of the
rural population had access to the public service electricity system.
Since then, with financial assistance from the Government of Jamaica and
the Interamerican Development Bank, REP has constructed about 29,000 new
connections covering an area of about 1,560 miles in about 600 villages.
By the end of the REP program period in June 1982 electricity supply will
be accessible to about 70% of Jamaica's rural population.
Sector Investment Program
45.       The JPS investment program for 1982-85 is estimated to cost about
US$86 million of which 62% is foreign exchange. The program is directed at
providing adequate service to existing and new customers, reducing system
outages, improving generation thermal efficiency, and strengthening the
management of the company. The investment program includes the proposed
project, which is discussed in Part IV.
46.       In the area of generation, the investment program includes
rehabilitation of the four existing steam units at Old Harbor (206 MW) and
two steam units at Hunts Bay (84 MW), as well as overhaul of the three 20
MW gas turbines, for a total estimated cost of US$12.2 million. With the
assistance of consultants, the Government is presently carrying out
feasibility studies of eight new hydro sites with a total estimated
construction cost in 1981 prices of US$53.4 million. Construction of the
selected sites could commence in mid-1984; IDB has informed the Bank that
it plans to finance the foreign exchange costs for the total hydro
program. JPS and the Government are also considering the economic
feasibility of adding about 40 MW of large diesel generation capacity for
the purpose of improving system thermal efficiency and thereby reducing
fuel costs. The costs associated with the hydro expansion and the
additional diesel capacity have not been included in the investment
program, as these programs are still under consideration. JPS and the
Government have agreed to consult with the Bank before adding any major new
investments to the program during the execution of the project (Loan
Agreement 5.08).
47.       The proposed expansion program for transmission lines and
associated substations (US$19.2 million) is a continuation of the master
plan developed in 1978 as part of the Second Power Project. The objective
is to improve reliability of service, particularly to the north coast, and
to allow greater utilization of the most efficient generating units by
improving the tie line around the Kingston area and between the major



- 14 -
generating stations. The program includes a 69 KV line between Annotto Bay
and Port Antonio, reconductoring of about 105 miles of existing 69 KY wood
pole line, a new substation at Port Antonio and an extension of the Annotto
Bay substation.
48.       The investment program also provides for expanded distribution
(US$21.2 million) designed to improve service to existing customers and
provide power to new customers. It includes the addition of about 900
circuit miles of 24 KV lines; 68 MVA of distribution transformers; 60,000
meters; about 55,000 distribution extensions; 30 MVAR of capacitors and
2,500 street lights. In the area of general property (US$14.5 million), it
provides for the expansion of the existing supervisory control and
automatic data acquisition (SCADA) system, as well as the procurement of
about 75 vehicles needed for implementation of the program and operation
and maintenance of the system.  The program also includes a substantial
component for technical assistance and training to strengthen management
and technical skills to carry out essential studies (US$7.5 million).
These cost estimates include physical contingencies. Price contingencies
are estimated at about US$11.7 million.
'istory of Bank Grou  Involvement with the Sector
49.       The first Bank loan to Jamaica's power sector (454-JM) for US$22
million, was made to JPS in 1966, when it was under private control, to
help finance the foreign cost of approximately 99 KW of oil-fired steam
generating capacity, 22 MW of diesel peaking plant, and associated
transmission and distribution facilities for the greater Kingston area.
The project was completed in 1972, substantially within the original
schedules and cost estimates, although completion of the transmission and
distribution components was delayed by about six months because of JPS's
financial difficulties.
50,       The Second Bank loan for power (1516-JM) for US$20 million was
made to JPS in 1978, The project, with a total cost of about US$36
million, provided for expansion of the transmission and distribution
systems in urban centers, as well as technical assistance for the
improvement of operating and maintenance practices, and the preparation of
contract documents. Implementation of the transmission and distribution
component of the project has proceeded satisfactorily, after initial delays
in the hiring of consultants and the preparation of bidding documents. JPS
power plant operations and maintenance practices improved somewhat with the
assistance of consultants engaged under the second power project to assist
in developing operations and maintenance procedures. Because of financial
constraints and a severe shortage of foreign exchange in the economy, JPS
was unable to fully implement the consultantst recommendations concerning
repairs and overhaul of its boilers and turbine at Old Harbor Station. The
level of maintenance and operations is still far from adequate, resulting
in the current unreliable state of electricity services. The proposed
project will provide for the rehabilitation of part of the existing plant,
as well as additional financing for consultants to assist in restoring the
security and reliability of the electricity supply to an adequate level.
JPS's financial performance under the second power project deteriorated,
and the company was unable to comply with the rate of return covenants in
the loan agreement. The reasons for this failure and the program provided



- 15 -
for in the proposed loan to improve the company's financial performance are
discussed in para 59-61. As of May 1982, US$17.3 million of the loan had
been disbursed; almost all loan proceeds had been committed. The project
is now expected to be completed in September 1982, about nine months later
than the appraisal schedule.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       JPS' staff prepared the proposed project over an 18-month period
with the assistance of consultants employed under the Second Power
Project. Appraisal was conducted in late February 1982. A Staff Appraisal
*          Report, "Jamaica Third Power Project" (No. 3892a-JM dated May 28, 1982) has
been distributed separately. Annex III provides supplementary project
information. Negotiations took place in Washington from May 17-20, 1982.
The Jamaican negotiating team was led by Mr. Horace Barber, Financial
Secretary and Mr. Orville Cox, Board Chairman of JPS.
Background and Objectives
52.       The unreliability of the public power supply has posed a serious
constraint to the country's economic recovery. The proposed project
supports JPS' 1982-85 investment program (see para 45-48), which aims at
improving the quality of service, reducing system losses and meeting
projected demand through rehabilitation of the power plants, extension and
upgrading of the transmission/distribution system, and strengthening of
management and staff skills. The project consists of the 1982/1984 portion
of the 1982-85 investment program, excluding ongoing works, and includes
the following:
(a) rehabilitation of three thermal units, totalling 146 MW, and
improvement in the boiler feed water treatment systems at Hunts
Bay and Old Harbor power plants;
(b) construction of about 25 miles of 69kv transmission line from
Annotto Bay to Port Antonio, with expansion of associated substa-
tions and upgrading of about 53 circuit miles of 69 kV wood pole
lines;
(c) upgrading and extending of about 272 circuit miles of 24 kV pri-
mary distribution lines and installation of 15 MVAR of capaci-
tors, 39,000 meters, 47 MVA of distribution transformers, 36,000
service connections, and 1300 street lights;
(d) improvements in general property consisting of upgrading and
extending the supervisory control and automatic data (SCADA)
equipment and providing 50 vehicles for operation and maintenance
of the project; and
(e) consultants' services to perform studies on long range generation
and financial planning, strengthen top and mid-level power plant
management, improve operations and maintenance, and train staff.



- 16 -
Organization and Management
53.       JPS is a 99% Government-owned corporation which is the sole
public-service supplier of electricity in Jamaica. Vested with corporate
powers, the Government-appointed JPS Board has traditionally set broad
policy, leaving daily decision-making to the Managing Director and his ten
immediate subordinates. Since about 1979, the loss of a number of
qualified top and mid-level managers has contributed to poor operational
and maintenance practices at the power plants, delayed preparation of
accounts, impeded record-keeping, and weakened technical and financial
planning. To address these deficiencies, the Board became more actively
involved in the day-to-day management of the company.  In October 1981, it               e
formed three subcommittees to review technical and financial planning and
purchasing decisions. The role of the Board in the day-to-day operations
of the company increased after the resignation of the Managing Director in
1981. The Chairman took over as Managing Director while conducting a
search for a suitable replacement.
54.       Strengthening JPS' management is essential to a turnaround in the
company's performance. To this end, the appointment of a qualified chief
executive officer is a critical step. For this reason it has been made a
condition of loan-effectiveness (Loan Agreement 7.01). The loan also
provides that tne Bank be promptly informed of any change affecting the
office of managing director, and that any person holding that position
should have qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement 4.05).
55.       Weaknesses in upper level management must also be addressed
promptly. In this regard, JPS has already taken steps to fill key
positions. In the financial area, a budget officer was hired in March and
a controller began work in April. The firm is actively recruiting a
systems and methods manager to rationalize and expand its computer
operations. In the technical area, the proposed loan would provide
financing for several key functions, including a project coordinator to
supervise the rehabilitation of generating capacity; an adviser to the
Director of Production, who would strengthen overall power plant
management; and training specialists in power plant maintenance (Loan
Agreement 3.02). JPS has also undertaken to evaluate and strengthen its
internal control system3 with the assistance of its external auditors by
June 30, 1983 (Loan Agreement 5.02(b)). To strengthen management
information and accounting systems, the project provides for a study on
ways to improve financial planning, budgeting, and purchasing.  In order to
permit the new financial management team to help direct and focus the
study, it is scheduled to begin in April 1983.
56.       The current organization structure of JPS places system planning
at a tertiary level and burdens the Managing Director with direct
supervision of ten managers and directors. A management audit of the
company, completed subsequent to the project appraisal, has made
recommendations providing for reduced supervisory burdens on the part of
the Managing Director. These recommendations will serve as the basis for
further discussions between JPS and Bank staff.



- 17 -
57.       In addition to these measures, the proposed loan would finance
training of JPS staff; JPS will furnish the Bank a detailed program
covering its 1983-84 training needs by December 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement
Section 4.06). The program would be a continuation of the training program
carried out under the aegis of the second power loan (1516-JM) and would
emphasize general mid-level management and power plant operations and
maintenance. JPS would also retain consultants at the operational level in
the areas of system operation, maintenance, and rehabilitation of the power
plants (Loan Agreement Section 3.02).
Load Forecast and Generation Requirements
58.       Electricity sales have dropped steadily during the past four
years. This situation reflects the combined effect of a number of
different factors, including declining GDP, conservation efforts, demand
response to rising tariffs, and increasing system outages. In contrast to
the previous decline, energy sales are projected to increase at a modest
annual rate of 2.7% during the 1982-85 period. The forecast is based on a
multiple linear regression model which takes into account economic
activity, population trends, and the price of electricity. The reversal in
sales trend is consistent with an anticipated improvement in economic
performance. It is anticipated that installed capacity, if rehabilitated
as proposed, would be adequate to meet peak demand for the next five to six
years.  The forecast will be reassessed based on the conclusion of a
long-range generation planning study to be financed by the proposed loan
(Loan Agreement 3.02). The study, which is scheduled to begin in September
1982, would refine current load projections and make recommendations for
the least cost development of the system. It would evaluate the role of
hydro, utilization of bagasse, peat and coal, and the advantages of
interconnection with isolated systems elsewhere in the country. The
generation planning study is urgently needed, since the company at present
has no comprehensive long-term plan and since additional capacity, for
which a three to four year lead time might be required, could be needed as
early as 1988. In conjunction with the study, to improve the basis for
generation planing, JPS will implement a program for the recording of
customer outages (Loan Agreement 5.09).
Finances
59.       The financial performance of JPS deteriorated seriously during
1977-1981, and JPS was unable to comply with the covenants of the second
power loan, which required rates of return on net revalued assets rising
from 8% in 1978 to 8.5% in 1981. Tariff increases during the period, while
substantial, were not adequate to keep pace with rising costs. The diffi-
culties stemmed also from the loss of key personnel, the neglect of basic
maintenance (exacerbated by the shortage of spare parts), excessive
reliance on generating units designed for peak loads (with more expensive
fuel requirements), increasing fuel prices, rising energy losses, and the
rapid growth of the wage bill as a result of union pressures. As a
consequence, the rate of return fell from 5.9% in 1977 to negative 2.4% in
1981. The level of accounts receivable was also high, ranging between 75
and 88 days of sale during 1977-81. As a consequence, JPS was forced to
rely increasingly on commercial bank borrowing and on government loans to
meet its working capital requirements.



18 -
60.       The financial rate of return in 1982 is projected to improve
slightly, but to continue to be negative. In view of the inefficiency of
the company and the unfavorable public reaction to an unreliable power
supply, the Government has been understandably reluctant to raise the
overall tariff to the consumer beyond the expected 10% average increase for
1982. (The 10% average increase is an estimate based on an automatic
increase of 1% per month in the basic tariff and a projected 8.5% average
annual increase in fuel prices which would be reflected in the fuel
adjustment surcharge.) As a condition of loan effectiveness, however, the
Government has agreed to take tariff action satisfactory to the Bank to
enable JPS to achieve a 5% financial rate of return in 1983 (Loan Agreement
Section 7.01). Improvements in efficiency and tariff increases as
necessary would enable the company to achieve financial rates of return of
8% in 1984 and 8.5% in 1985 and thereafter (Loan Agreement 5.04.) JPS
would submit annual audited accounts to the Bank (Loan Agreement Section
5.02(a)).
61.       Besides the proposed tariff increases, JPS will take a number of
other steps to improve its financial position under the provision of the
proposed project. In addition to the generation rehabilitation and
technical assistance programs designed to increase the company's managerial
and operating efficiency, JPS will implement programs agreed upon with the
Bank to reduce distribution losses and maintain its accounts receivable at
reasonable levels (Loan Agreement Section 5.09). These programs provide
for a reduction in distribution losses from the present level of 21% of net
generation to 15% in 1984, and in accounts receivable from the present
level of 77 days of sales to 60 days of sales in 1984. Contracting of
additional debt and the undertaking of major new investments (defined as
greater than 2% of the value of gross fixed assets) would also be limited
(Loan Agreement Sections 5.06, 5.07, and 5.08).
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The total project cost is estimated at US$48.6 million
equivalent, of which US$30.0 million is the foreign component. The cost of
consulting services has been estimated on the basis of about US$10,800 per
staff-month, including the foreign cost of subsistence and travel.
Physical contingencies have been estimated to average about 10%. The price
contingencies, which in the aggregate are 12% of the base costs and
physical contingencies, have been calculated on the basis of assumed annual
rates of inflation of 8.5% in 1982 and 7.5% in 1983 and in 1984. The
project cost estimate is summarized in the Loan and Project Summary.
63.       The proposed Bank loan of US$30.5 million would finance the
foreign cost of the project and the front-end fee. JPS would supply the
local cost financing of the project: about US$7.9 million from borrowings
and about US$10.7 million from internal cash generation.  In order to
ensure equal treatment with other lenders who hold debentures as security,
the Bank may request JPS to issue debentures for the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement Section 5.10-5.15).
Implementation, Procurement and Disburements
64.       Engineering, preparation of bidding documents and supervision of
construction for the project would be performed by JPS's staff. This is



- 19 -
acceptable since JPS has experience in similar work either recently
completed or under construction. Bidding documents for all items except
vehicles have been substantially completed. Contractors would build the
new 69 kV line and install the substations as well as the supervisory
control and automatic data acquisition (SCADA) equipment since JPS does not
maintain in-house construction capability for these works. Contractors
would also be employed to assist in rehabilitation of the generating units
at Hunts Bay and Old Harbor as JPS does not have sufficient specialized
technical personnel such as certified welders for boiler repairs and
turbine technicians to perform the work in a timely manner. JPS personnel
would install the distribution equipment and distribution extensions. JPS
has agreed to engage consultants to assist in the supervision of the power
plant rehabilitation work (Loan Agreement Section 3.02). The project would
commence in mid-1982 and be completed by December 31, 1984.
65,       Procurement of goods and services for the project, except as
shown below, will be through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement. Consultants would be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines as well. Local manufacturers
are expected to supply materials with a total cost not exceeding
US$250,000, which the proposed loan would finance. Jamaican manufacturers
will receive a margin of preference of 15% or the applicable import duties,
whichever is lower for bid evaluation. Local contractors are expected to
be successful bidders for construction of the 69 kV wood pole lines,
substations and primary distribution lines. It is expected that a foreign
firm will be selected by limited international tendering for the generation
rehabilitation work. Since the SCADA equipment must be compatible with the
existing system, it would be procured by limited international tendering
from suppliers who would also furnish technical assistance to local
contractors during installation. The total value of equipment to be
purchased under limited international tendering is about US$7 million.
With prior approval of the Bank, JPS may also purchase standardized or
proprietary equipment for the substations and the turbine generators from
the original manufacturer in accordance with Bank guidelines for such
purchase. The total value of such equipment is estimated at US$450,000.
In order to permit rehabilitation work on the generating units to begin
expeditiously, a provision of $200,000 for retroactive financing to cover
expenditures made after May 1, 1982 for the generation rehabilitation
program has been made (Loan Agreement Schedule 1 (4)).
66.       Disbursements from the loan account would be made for 100% of
foreign expenditures and 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally produced
items for (a) equipment and materials, and (b) contracts for services,
installation and erection of works. 100% of the foreign expenditures for
consultants' services and the training program would also be covered. The
closing date would be December 31, 1985, one year after estimated
completion of the project.
Project Benefits
67.       The rehabilitation of the existing thermal units is the least-
cost solution to provide sufficient capacity to meet projected loads.
Other technically feasible alternatives such as the installation of gas
turbines or diesels require higher capital investment and operating costs
and have not been shown to be economic. The addition of 69 kV transmission



- 20 -
and 24 kV primary distribution lines is a continuation of an ongoing pro-
gram determined in 1975 by JPS and its consultants as the least cost solu-
tion for future expansion. JPS, during program preparation, conducted
studies using updated load flows, fuel and construction costs, which con-
firmed the above for discount rates up to 20%.
68.       Since the proposed project is an integral part of JPS' 1982-1985
investment program, the economic rate of return on the overall program was
computed. This was estimated as the discount rate which equalizes the
present values of the economic net cost and benefit streams associated with
investment program. The economic costs include capital investments and
operation and maintenance costs including fuel.
69.       The economic benefits include:
(a) forecast revenues from incremental sales of electricity valued at
existing tariff levels;
(b) fuel cost savings resulting from the reduction of about 2.5% in
system losses as a result of improvements in the transmission and
distribution system; and
(c) reduced fuel costs by improving thermal generating efficiency by
about 9.5% as a result of power plant rehabilitation.
This return does not include certain important but non-quantifiable bene-
fits which will result from the project such as a reduction in power out-
ages and institutionally strengthening JPS. The internal economic rate of
return of the investment program is about 23%, which compares very favor-
ably with the opportunity cost of capital in Jamaica, currently estimated
at about 11%. The relatively high economic rate of return reflects the
fact that the investment program focuses on overdue rehabilitation of the
plant. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the economic return is un-
likely to be affected significantly by any errors in valuation of the basic
parameters used to derive it.
Environmental Aspects
70.       JPS has carried out previous projects as well as on-going works
which are similar to the proposed project with due regard to environmental
protection and would do so in this project. Line routes consist mostly of
conversion or upgrading of existing lines and will, in most cases, follow
established rights-of-way with land clearing and visual impact kept to a
minimum.
Project Risks
71.       The procurement and construction schedule estimated for the proj-
ect is reasonable and takes into account normal engineering, administrative
and construction procedures but does not provide for unusual delays.
Timely completion of the project by the borrower will depend to a large
extent upon strengthening JPS' managerial capacity, improving employee work
discipline, and contractor adherence to the construction schedule. The
company's managerial and skilled staff have been greatly depleted during



- 21 
recent years, by the loss, through emigration and resignation, of
experienced personnel. JPS has already taken steps to fill key management
positions; the project provides for technical assistance in the area of
power plant management and training as well. A second risk relates to the
ability of JPS to raise sufficient financial resources to contribute to the
financing of the project. Rate of return covenants included in the
proposed project are aimed at mitigating the effect of this constraint.
Finally, notwithstanding changes in upper level management and the
Government's recent appointment of a Minister of Public Utilities with
extensive union experience, it will be difficult to moderate longstanding
union practices that encourage labor unrest which in the past has caused
delays in implementing the ongoing generation rehabilitation program and
construction of the 138 KV transmission lines.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Jamaica Public
Service Company Limited, the draft Guarantee Agreement between Jamaica and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the Project are
listed in Section III of Annex III. As additional conditions of effec-
tiveness, JPS will be required to take measures (including tariff adjust-
ments) to produce revenues which will yield an annual rate of return of 5%
in 1983 and to appoint a chief executive officer with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 7, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEMAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSANI) SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECEUT ESTIMATE
TOTAL             11.0                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       4.8               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  470.0       830.0    1260.0  *             1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILUGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     445.6       1298.6    1389.6                1324.1                   2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1629.0       1869.0    2159.0  *
URBAN PUPULATIUN (PERCENT OF TUTAL) 33.8         41.6      48.9                  64.2                     53.2
POPULATlON PROUJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        3.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2065
PUFULATIUN DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      148.1        169.9     196.3                  34.3                     80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    327.0        392.0     448.4                  94.5                    133.9
POU?LATIUN AGE STRIUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         41.7         47.0      41.7                  40.7                     30.1
15-64 YKS.                         54.0        47.5       52.4                 55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.3          5.5       5.9                  4.0                       8.3
POPULATIUN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
rOTAL                               1.51t       1.4]c     1.6/c                 2.4                      1.5
UKBAh                              3.8          3.5       3.4                   3.7                      3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     39.5         34.9      28.5                  31.2                     22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.4          7.5       6.5                   8.4                      9.1
GROSS KEPRODUCTION RATE               3.4         2.7       1.9                   2.3                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        19.3      27.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..      40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FPOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-10U)          98.0         99.0      99.0                 108.3                    119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   91.0        111.0     119.0                 107.6                    125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          56.0         67.0      70.0                  65.8                     92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0         33.0      35.0                  34.0                     39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALIITY RATE      7.2         3.7       2.9                   7.6                      3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    64.2         68.9      70.8                  64.1                     68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           51.5         32.2      16.2                  70.9                     25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PUPULATION)
TOTAL                              20.9        62.0      86.0                  65.7
URBAN                             50.7        100.0     100.0                  79.7
RURAL                              5.7         48.0      79.0                  43.9
ACCESS To EXCRETA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         94.0      94.0                  59.9
UHBAN                               ..        100.0     100.0                  75.7
RURAL                                *-        92.0      91.0                  30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          25B9.8       2632.4    3523.0                1728.2                    973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1990.0/d    17i7.8      547.0                1288.2                    896.6
POPULATIUN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            241.2/d      243.6     263.0                471.2                     262.3
URBAN                               ..        245.9        ..                 558.0                    191.8
RUKAL                               ..           ..
ADlISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        17.0      19.0                    ..                     18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.9         4.3
URUAN                              2.7           ..
RURAL                               4.8          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.9         1.6
URBAN                               1.6          ..
RURAL                              2.0           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TUTAL                               ..         27.0
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                     Page 2 of 6
JAn&ICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                92.0       119.0      98.0                101.7                   105.9
MALE                92.0        119.0     97.0                103.0                   109.6
FEMALE              93.0       119.0      98.0                101.5                   102.2
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                45.0        46.0      58.0                 35.3                    66.3
MALE                44.0        46.0      55.0                 34.9                    73.2
FEMALE              46.0        45.0      61.0                 35.6                    59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  9.0         5.5       2.3                 30.1                    28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          55.0        47.0      49.0                 29.6                    26.8
SECONDARY                        21.0        26.0      22.0                 15.7                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      82.0        95.4        ..                 80.0                    75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       20.0        39.0      45.0                 42.6                    83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       90.2       267.5    263.9                 215.0                   181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        7.0        37.5      57.1                 89.0                   131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                63.0       114.0      48.0                 62.8                   123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         ..       0.2                  3.2                     5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     606.9       631.5    762.8
FHMALE (PERCENT)                 37.2        38.8      39.7                 22.6                    32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            39.0        29.5      21.8                 35.0                    34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               24.9        25.6      25.2                 23.2                    28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              37.3        33.8      35.3                 31.8                    42.3
MALE                               48.7        42.4      43.6                 49.0                    56.5
FEMALE                             26.7        25.6      27.4                 14.6                    28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.2         1.6       1.3                  1.4                     0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.2/e       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.2/e       ..
LWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.2          ..2.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   8.27         ..        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    501.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    439.0                 187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    585.0                 513.9
RURAL                              ..          ..    509.0                 362.2                   385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
bRBAN                                         ..               ..
RURAL                              ..          ..      80.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populatior-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1963;  /e 1958.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population
estimates to be shown in the 1981 World Bank                                        May, 1981
Atlas are $1030 (at 1978-80 prices) and 2.2
million.



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                                                Page 3of 6
ptPlt(ZT:O'd N   tilCAt.  PTICATOOt
Lecca'  AitbhaSh the data  a  dra-  trom a--ac  ge...eelly lodged the weat ta                ieta  -ard rtlIiab,  at th.ald alea on n'tad that abty day ate be itasoc-
nationeiiy ..nparnl  bara         I h at tt iak af  taadardlsad dat±niia±na cad atateate a-d bY dY              'Art, Otta-t-1 In talacatiat aha data.  The. data to., .a.t-
theleSa, ucta   a  doee..ibe aodare  'C ret.tdt,  iadictat   treads, ate therartaris esraiaf  rajar difttrs..... betac- ratre
The rotareate gr-ura ar  (1) c .h a..t  at-try gttty at tht saI et t-Attoy tatd (2)   ataaty gr-ty with atAt-Att hi9l oaetg nhttte  teaata!oa
at,aetir rauay (aap   a    Itie:tpa  Oi1 Exportere" gatap chart "Middla t.ata  No-th Altrar  ta   -                            oOeae t   bon  ocs   tsrtt
oiaota ad  f:it±e)    ta th         otreAta getp data theA... ea gac are:p-ytlaiat asighoat eribath-Li  aetna far ert.diaato tad  hbaa  only ata-
najarcey af tbc .. tatoiteta grup Kaa  ata tar. that iadhacet-. Ot S              t.hecovea,ge ofg . tatirta   eang al    drtr    aed tthe aaahhtlttyat dat
cand cctmuiec    aea  eut be                        totraea  h   nal .i . ne -a or  ate iadiact,r  to soothes.    ..  .bsn .tep- art oly nafa±  t. arap,tog the a.I.. at
teitditte'a a   a-lnat~   h            atry and teftrsam  anpe
UNIAn RIzA (th-nard soa..)                                                                             !L3s.O'0yOtad-rt±o~mndaoi-Pplta   tt
Total - Ttact  audr   rt    ptl .o ead cAt.  aad  rina.d taat.tbto, cad ers..:   dtnidsd hy  bthrospaeor.                                                   aa.be   a -pbteyma  hate
pjr±aloaot    ialana ate9rlolf     ' a -ltt  toad te-potrlty nOprtreoyaallahls an patlia erd prlattKn geama  cod eptoli.mied baspisladr
fao  trapt, totetat,  -okat and bltther pardate ar to lIratllr  1970 data.                           habilitetatio  ronttra,   Il,epites eon rgtrhltartonata  porzateacly tit.fad
hy atIn c a~& teG hybpia,i-r  tttbltah-Aoee  yotip,imciatplly attic-
2MP PER CdNITkA  US) -GNP   a   aaaeomeasa4 at  Iarnot crbet pote,   a-                                  dial  ater  Are rAt  catlaIded,  bate: htapitela, bhn..a. -     t atlada heaslh
taInted by eaat averta  -chad na Warld Bath Atilt   (1977-(9 beie) ;1960.                              cod aedIre  Iaereca not p..ra...ntlp arttffd by A phyctriac  (ba  byI
:9)0, tad 1579 data                                                                                     adiola   aecisatot, tames,  rdatfa, era.) aihoo  otter tn-ysceraeaten
darter  and Prarcds a limited ranage nt  -edia    tnl isec          Paa static-
r,ttetOY -tOOl'ttttdpy   -aaulaitao.r  taaar  n   tnp  ua                                                ae    aysatra    artl    tl hO.pt"  pardacya /atsonad                       ta
not lioita.   atralat, atatt  pa aat hydra-, a,teinen cd gotieth-Ia1 ' cOt-ad rural (tap) t09 lacel no ruralbept Ie od    tsltdniant-ity
tnt Icty) Or hillga-tn   tot I     au)alarPat atylac:  196C, 1970, tad 1)09                             aa1taro,    p OytcOtsaII hgbtsy)h   arc  ancladad naly  aodr total,i
dta,                                                                                               tdnsgna  tr t.adsa  Had - Total  -tobr nO adniiaanoe' toar d hArars
fttom huepi-ale divided by thoe aebar at bada.
PtOPLATION AND VITAL itoottOOCa
Toctal PattLlttirli -Pie-_ter~  (th-oauadf) - A. at daly 1i :960, 1900, and 1979                  hOOtflNt
dna.                                                                                              anorg  St&_jat nO geasaLhaldt(aar   c           hauc      - atal,  Rb  -A
lt~~jeruley(yyj~rtartuf;ttaJ)-Ratta a) arbet to total  aulot:A hteahold at-int.                                      t     raya  indlatutalsaa hohamn reirig  ater
ditflte.t   aicat   da.aant   sty efttea   -op-rbility at d,at                                       cod their    ttct    a-tra   o                 rny no masp noa he ct.ai, to
oasa   _tataia-; 0960, 1970, tad '979 data,                                                        the h. ehhad Oarat istca Itanete
IAnAips)atrrtloitueat  ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~         ra~n race     t totl., tobS,  sodtual    aegeor
Pooa1aataaI o~,Yr 2001, - Caro,ta   aaatayoetacrebadn PA00190                                        her atIpea  pa   rc   nalabt eat  rt)  u."apied  -aa-otesl1
toa   etniaby co   n   a   nd- d ihaio a.tointycadPriiyata                               daniliogs, oeepeotsity.  tcli9sanld.A                  _ tan-peneoo   soraat-re   tad
bad   td  atat  lioa  -craratt y nas.bolling ct 77.)  .a..e.  The par-                      Ce-Attiee A     rll-  g  vihta  ktietiaty A it  artg   apocO   ccyateg
neta_t lo ,tat-toay  .ten   c1a. hare those Ibails ae...ania datliac  I)r                          atontal, triter, cod rate  dasIltnac  rotynatiasy
t~artiflty stnrdinp t an-la,a oral sad yast fecily pla-tiog yartarneat.
lath rtartr,y i,tahab  attiband eta atl..ne. nIII  aabinotiiur  to  =ernlity                 LLUbATION
ata ft-ility t-ade Irayr(nnit                  I'allra                                          Adiast.d inonienA.t tatoa
Mieaica_ttrv   taleia   - It A ctaatnnrp  pyalatoObr   Is at or-ath ectoa                          Pri-te  sabaci - atl   d saOact*raetotal, ni-  ad   eed
the bitrar.c ica taqua) to aha d.taro .t.n , cad aOeo h tba ten           . taars  s                nor1onisn  at af  toesj.  at tba printry lore) e             Icaataeatrsats
ais neot.Thig it nahi*sed arlIy aftar fertility rates d            aAir  topwry atel-%..pI                              tita    natl   atlaelatdres efed'bl
tb rh   lrcrt    -ant  ant corpeaon  raec, abh   oat..h pnoe... a                                   (ease..  baa aj-and tar dfttct "'lnoh   at po-ttr   danatica; tar
at AcatrpO_cInet ane y.   t.a .t..ear A.yapln   nOe ce                                               acntrins with tiacrosl adaasIIa enall. er  asy eaen   ± pecsI
satimated rItoe haia at ah  poaj atod obaratterictire at the                                                ..u.ia  itese  p a(l   re halco or ebaa the aftiti1 eahool at.~
a           I tera±00tad the rata aO dealite of farttlity atta  ta  .pon a-                        "eTadry atOnl -t'~           gpfdfb -Ceue   saoe   sode
oaIt icrel.                                                                                          adare tiatr a ia.ie   at letet tear yeare at appeared primarp  bana-notian:
lereairr' autrni  rnhd-Teyeartabet ist.t.rar   pnptlsrtan                                              provides ga...tonl  anniatel, to  ot ..her tratning tostoanti... tar ytyih
tierat  hea   ca-hod.                                                                                usanlp at 12 no 17 peace et eAB.  nere..cpnodeana. rae are gene.raly
Per sA. ho. - Pid-pa-  pa tiapot aqa-r   ifla...tar  (alt h5otnrro) at                               V,ndtiiaol nel"et        Ienan  atf sacA radri-Vttoelie)t
tote   ai; lVti, 1(70 and 1909 date.                                                             -l,onde tschnicel, iodaeootal   rabapar    ahubttetaoridoynnd-
Pant. 1,e. aartttltaral lard - Cany,tacd aa ahar  tar agi-ttaaraIlIoad                                 o.tiy or as deposet  at  sanader   cosititatia-e
_y); 1900, 1972 nod 1970 dana.                                                                    P-Ol-c ...bar -raio - Ira ae.ed  ....odar-t - Totab etadeos caralled Cc
PPanleta  ap',.      aae nrct.    Childoo. 10-la ynre) , -keiag-age 115-                                 primary nod .....adaay Ile..la daradad by rachbr  of t.eanbas to ch.
64 pears).  cd rsoiI 6r(P   y         ..ead are) ee P.-orsansa     at  rd-y... patti-                  carr...paadOe levels
lani.an  1960, 1970, nad 1979 dt-.                                                                   Adualt lit-s   y re_e  (ae-acr) - Litneosan edal    (able tc reed codnin)
Pacalettan  rtonth Rtata  -tarnt    a -       - Atta-   gathb rates at toalt aid-                        seayanatb              atcaal edalt Paptlatioa toed 1) yeses e.adrs
year 'p-pitiana  tar 195061  1060-, tad  97-9.
Pnan   r-rtht beta (asnasto  - tabac- An.t..  grarrh rates at arb.A  papa-                  CONSMPOTION
OsIIIe foarI50-60, 1960-70.sd97-9PssecCrsto r                                                                            btasra aealhoa.). dcaeog rtea  tspoism  name
Irae  arh   ar  (pr  haead(- at   bra-  bitahe year that....d af aid-year                     caeeetglo   hnseipaao;ncae    macte.ece   o
pnyalaaintA; 1960, 1970, sand 1979 dart..                                                             tliatrp-hinla..
trad   Dnh Boar  (par thaasa.od(- a-at  deatho par nha...a.dn at aid-year                       RadIaI heceorer  (oar thaasani a-naltica)     All types at eaare.   tar raedio
ypalar.tarn; 1960, 1970, tad 19)9 loota.                                                             braadna_te at gnnrl (al pr theceend of yayaletine; analada  an
Ora.. haaarao           t Ot A-avet     numberoaOdeaght-r  a   at   ill bear In                        linoo...ed rca.r.. I  to In  aie  sad to years ~wha  -eistrt.e  nof radi
hs-  avI a-p-dattir-  pnrindIOf eb h            nionsprceot  is-pati  tea-                           aeon we  it efeert; date One re-te   yeara nay rantbe   pasprable si-
aiio  ran .c;a.oaty tar-ye.ar ......e  ca oIt 1900. 1971, cod r9ot.                                  aet naa,troo    hlee         raste-tot.
(a yt PIa..tan.-AAranrn.an..tatsete                            ...ae banbsof at anaryaroT tesvro nortaao                          aaslt                          f Voatro    a  tdtnt
at hrabrarrpl  av .oc .ad      . epiase at aaanna  tant"'ly PlnIngpaeran.                    g...ersl pablia per tbh.t.  Papaita;  eldc   sisas    Vreevr
(to  PI _roin   -     e lasa   Iaann  at. nar    ... Ie  - Pr--tag  of at r str±d                   in onanorice tad in years abet reofriata  TVAas  aeIte tn.
nar at rhlld-bsariaa tSa  (1)-ad y-rs)  h.a ace blrth-ao-t-I davinne at                           Mcoc    Cinnalatta- (Par thaaecnd -aa laiana) - thaws tha tramps  ci-
all atrtd Iea Ir i..att  age gaup.                                                                  naniaa  "daily gor.ra c             Ina....st oewepPyr'   nio   napeai
ialntanlrod prixtrily tv r-ordin9 .nona  one1 A          It io Ir...idsoed
Order atPnof     auaa  ten  apit  (196-71ll00  - Iaden at pa ..plat tra ..I                          Cirnae dnan1 Atat-da-tac  a  Captio  Par year - Pace d anhb  aber tof
Podata   tal"ad  andlto    Prdtio                     lan    cd  a   ea   n                       itkten  ..Id da-iag aha year * iarltdicg adedeatns on dir-io trm
itataodnpe  Atata.   Ca-.dtcIPetnvar yrOo-y grade letg. eaar                               ad nabtil  talon
tnsa-d at eagr) .attoh tan  dibla tad  Annnirroutrisate  (e.g,..ff.. sand
t-  o   arae)    A             .r.ar  ycoadati- of  ..a  acuar.aty I. he...d an                 LAB00 FaORCt                ..2
natia_lvraec prdarar itrc n htebt; a96l-il. 1970, ard 1979 dana.                                  Total aLecb con  tbaed)                ......... asly eacivoP .. ysAao,inad
"omIm   naprr  rln                 pararo-  at roauircn-nAt   - Caryatad Porn.                       a d farret ea3t areiysd baat aaladino baa-tr-, etadents, eta,,
eanogy eqairalona at ret (tad capyilco available in  catyprepOrt.                  tarinS papalastei.n  all. apse    DotiniLi.ae  in vani..as.. ttaioi            re
perdr.  AiOeblbepplraiatnIe dceti   prd Atar,  spreItrapararbI                                                 90,   97  and199 dta
raparna,   nd abanin   it eart .  t eaPpyltc owlao  nia  tod,cede,                     Fc-Ia (P.raaat) - Fenl  laa .rat  am                  ,.nonn. atitlo     aoftre
qannairoaaaodOr rardyvanooiag, ed Ia.eta in dioaoibItotn. enqarra-                    Aoritnt  ran    (porters   - Lbhar  tarr  it fereant, ftarmey, h.Aet         n
aor.          Iteancrnad Fh Al ba..d  -a phyeaaiapiaal atedo far nArna  car-                       t itntga.p-aranage   o atrein  labta tarre( 1960.  1970 end 199dn..
raytd health ....etd-rlngevarAa_ratre  at_paratorI, hcdy  -ngh,,. aPe                         Otdcetry (rareot)  - LabarrrAtosia, artata,secatio
and  -m  dhctnOrib   aa.     pyti  ta,ofend ntitwn  ltparta ta   cs   tadoaerna,atr d Ecow   pobaaaa.aollhrOrs   1900,
hb....bhld lava:  1960-65, 1970, Ia 977odeact.                                                     1970 ard 1979 dAta
(an  tata cpytyat  nantel,~ t... py,jyd.yf - P Ant  macta t   pea ..yit.                    Partirhptiia  bentaraa  -tsl.sl, atd tone     - O.tittipattar no
anapy  f (tadye  day.  Oat ecyyly at tra    ndtrdI             caao    a                     rairOtynaeoeaprd  ac ntal   a,nd ot                             aerfrea
qairarort. tar all --tanvr  -narahilbd by USAa P-aidotora alatna_                                  penneecapan of tata,   Atsed £_ traIt                   ofpaerta a   all naermsaatas;
alltno   at. ItO6  a-an   f at.nr.a  tran-tayam day tad DOpa9 t  toe   t0l , 1900, tad  1979tl da                                  I...at... bea.rd to I10's  eo.       iacarate
paesprtta fa  hlah 10 gonn  ahattd ha -rIna  potaria.  Thoe.. et.rd-rPair  at-t. IeatIana tthypaaa,no aetnta d A
arde  r  lcer nb-  t    brc th aP 75 gaemeo a .t.1aPa   . pacia tad 23 tran  at                    It  nriarn            from rettnt a. aa.   e
totral pratoitA ..  .a .vag   tar rho at.aId, propr...d by FAQ in tha Third                     teracfeadeayPai  Et,              taia   t  apaennad.r 1) cad 61 end tc
W.etId Part S-r-y; 1961-65, 1970 rod 1977 data,                                                    at  tho t-tlInhan- tarts.
Pananr  n .  rrna  t        _l ftar  arica)tad palan      rtmla arpl   ft Lad da-
rlrv   tIn  anhe1l  and yptlote haprepa  day; 1961-6, 19 70 tad. l(77.dcta.                   INCoCt DITRIBUTIrON
Chl   aes1G   antt h   bta (Par rhaaad        A ..a.oI d.thbs par tharsad it               P-- r    a -rean  at Paanac baa-   (b.th Ia  -ah and hard)                b rria    yrlaih-e
e r gtp l-t yans ...    thiltnon  ta thln apas artp;  Iat star doralylno. tar-                    5p-r-nt, airhata 20 partar. , patreat 20 pran  tad yanrent tO pan-ot
trtoa dtan d atiredtrclIn. rebla; 1(6, 171 aod 1979 dart,                                            at h.erla
HALTHa                                                                                               PtOVERTY TARGET GOUPSt
LiOe Eapartancy at Birth lyatar) - Avr.nato, arche  a) pra. at life  -tririr                        Trhe talra   ctnnr  r   wy appata.itnan ctrn at pararry I-Ial,
an  Om;t t.1961,.1970 cad 1979 dat,                                                                  cad  h.aId ho hntnrpratad alnh rao..idnoebla    rtn
rt.Art (tr tliyPc   7r hcr   t_h.            Annual decth.ofa iraaecdcvcr p.. n.                    rEnirated  Ibaln   Pa.na Ltyarc- Irvl (US( yet -ayir                - aba  and rar)1
Ifag   atl .ha..an   lOn- biraha.                                                                    Ab.oalan  parvr_y iarar  lewa  In rOa h       ts   bor l ha     aa'h a soica~l
tran  n  aefa N_ra  (yarIto    tpraeinto       -  at)   rbor1 cad naral - t-taritian..lly adnarata diet pita  waonaI                                  ar.o   rqaonasi   a
boa atpatOn   tcrt,  ahe, td atatit  ttb roaaiaba rans  acaeaar.  R.I.tivc.y""                                                      "ubn  n    ..
rrr ahnothat trot p       -rn d  arnal-n, optn,ad .etitamry call) no                         Ora   aaiayvryIrathm    tactid   ta aaynapt
per_taroca  r  rf h.toan_prthat ypuplarlira.  II ra tbaha  ama   pablic                              porea-    innan   of rha oatr-y.  Urban brat Is darOrd tarn the rara1
f-tatia  at  trndp.ta t1ta-d art  -ar  th-r 200 neat-  Itn   a1hatc ta  ha 
ratnidnoad  at betatgnitbir reananabta atara at rOan hutar.Inh. rura   brra          lava  ,aha   dj.tint foar bigharat.     t I      rfIn in arba  erec.
h,, h...,J cur al r-Entietttod Pataltalta aela Abhe1tat Pam-a Intact Lava (a-sr..ta - coen.
_ottahl  aro         'Jwul  lep    thatbla hraes   I.. an -nn oa   f at   h.r.hobachld            ma_ad t    -        a    tpapaI.tnia  (urban tad ranch1wOw are 'abea1ato
da ran hare ato npnodcdia parl. aa.prt ..       - f athnb  dey Or ta       thit .b
facaly', eana  -adn-
Masher rO pnple (ntetl, u-bar, tad nurr)  -rr-d by enaytat dinpanel a
yP anarnat   athriir t-apeati-cyaalt Ea . -taa     Gipaca  map  iaodc
rho atO,ltanha  tad dle,preti, riOth. ariata "I        asot t       barerh-    I    tarn                                                    roc-ro  end atriti Data tirisha
ca Iaa-aar  by  tana-brre  yntac tor thn a-  at pit proahasead cclvO -aic Aa.lnipi  mad (rajetairn                                                                       p.t-yn rsr
.paaiothnr. pan Phyahae        P  tpulatta  dividod by tanber aM  prarticltg phyoi-
P             _aat   aytrint Parsat - Paptletinr divadad by taboc a  parara
ntleatotlprdatc   arca  ptrtraaaeo.adecIfnte trarac



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
JAMSAICA: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Population:      2.2 million (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,030 (1980)
Amount
(million US$ at
current prices)                                    Actual                            Preliminarv
1980                1975       1976      1977       1978            1979    191OI Bs1
PRICES
GDP deflator (1974=100)                                 121.2      134.0     150.4      189.4        219.6    256.0   281.8
Exchange rate (J$ per US$)                                0.91       0.91      1.25       1.48         1.77     1.78      1.78
Share of GDP at market prices (%)         Average Annual Increase (x)
(at constant 1974 prices)             (at constant 1974 prices)
1976      1981      1986                     1976 /81  1981 /8
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/
Gross Domestic Product               2,658             100.0      100.0     100.0                      -1.6     4.3
Agriculture                        220               8.2       8.8        9.1                      = *      5.0
Industry                           982              34.3      29.2      J2.6                      -4.7      6.6
Services                         1,456             57.5       60.0      58.3                      - .1      3.1
Consumption                          2,340              96.0      89.6       79.4                      -2.9     1.9
Gross Domestic Investment              418              18.8      13.9       18.6                      -7.4    10.7
Exports GNFS bi/                     1,408              25.4      41.1       47.5                       8.4     7.1
Imports GNFS b/                      1,415              40.5      44.5       45.5                        .3     4.8
Gross National Savings                 117               5.9        3.1      14.9                     -16.B    43.1
As % of GDP
1977 /78        1979/90          1981/82 @/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                                                                20.5            25.7             26.8
Current Expenditure                                                            26.2            29.7             30.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                     -5.7            -4.0             -3.6
Capital Expenditure                                                            10.5              8.1            11.0
Foreign Finance (net)                                                            .6             3.2             11.7
a/ At market prices.
izdirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  Based on balance of payments data.
c/ Fiscal year - April l/March 31. Figures refer to Central Government operations.
d/ Estimated.



1976-81                   1981-86
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                        -2.9                         5.0
GNP per capita growth rate (C)             -4.0                         4.0
ICOR                                       -7.9                        4.6
Marginal savings rate                        n.a.                        .6
Impiort elasticity                          1.8                        1.3
-Amount                                                              Annual Growth Rates (7)
(million us$ at                                                         (at constantl974 prices)
current prices)__                             A       c t u a                        Prelininary                P r o j e c t e d
1981            1976          1977         1978          1979         1980          1981          1982         1983          1984          1985    1986
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                         990            -16.2           9.0          6.0         -10.i          8.8           1.6          -1.0         12.5           9.9           8.2    10.6
Primary                                  875           -18.8          11.4          -1.3        - 1.0          -1.7          1.0          -4.2          12.0          8.6           6.4      9.4
Manufactured                             115           - 2.4            .4          31.6        -45.i          66.2          5.0          15.0         15.0          15.0          15.0    15.0
Merchandise imports                       1,440            -24.1        -21.7          14.4         -11.D         -8.3          18.2          5.8           9.1           7.2          3.7      2.6
Food                                     105           -34.4         -29.6         29.0         -32.5          -2.5         41.4           5.0           5.0          3.0           2.0      2.0
Fuels                                    450           -14.8          10.2        - 4.6          21.8        -17.6          -8.1           3.0          3.0             0             0     1.8
Machinery & Equipment                    290           -37.3         -25.8         - 5.9          3.3        -19.2          37.6           6.6         22.3          12.1           2.7    -4.1
Other                                    595           -16.6         -23.6         32.5         -25.+           2.6         21.4           6.8          6.8           8.7           6.0      6.4
PRICES (1974=100)
Export price index                                         149.5        157.7         163.3         187.5        203.3        206.0         215.2         229.5        243.1         257.4   273.5
Import price index                                        122.9         128.4         130.0        169.1         215.7        224.6         237.1         256.1        276.4         297.7   319.6
Terms of trade index                                       121.6        122.8         125.6         110.8         94.3         91.7          90.8          89.6         88.0          86.5    85.6
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                                             Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                                 (at constant 1974 prices)
1976         1981          1986                                                  1976-81       1981-86
Exports                                         100.0         100.0         100.0                                                   2.3           8.0
Primary                                       86.1          88.4         82.8                                                    3.2           6.3
Manufactured                                  13.9          11.6          17.2                                                 -1.3          15.0
Imports                                         100.0         100.0        100.0                                                   -2.8           5.6
Food                                          11.3           7.3          6.9                                                  -3.3           3.4
Fuel                                          22.9          31.3         26.8                                                  -4.6           1.5
Machinery and equipment                       22.1          20.1         21.9                                                  -4.0           7.5
Other                                         43.7          41.3         44.4                                                  -1.3           6.9



BALANCE OF PAYNENTS EXTERNAL CMPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions at current prices)
A- c t u a I                                      P r a I e c t e d
Indicator                                        1976      1977      1978    1979       1980       1981t    1982        1983       1984       1985     1986
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                          916      993       1135    1218       1421      1482       1604       1920       2234       2530    2900
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                         630       724       792      815        961      990       1024       1229       1430       1639    1927
Imports of goods and services                         1257      1060      1252    1441       1721      2007       2206       2541       2898       3194    3519
Of which: Merchandise  c.i.f.                        913       747       857     w94       1173      1440       1601       1888       2187       2446     2704
Net transfers                                            6        20        26       80        91       115        115        130        140        150      180
Current account balance                               -335      - 47      - 91    -143       -209      -410       -487       -491       -524       -514     -439
Private direct investment                             - 1       -  7      - 27     - 26       -il         0         25        103        230        159      160
Public capital                                          86        26       103      76        128       277        447        393        299        360      284
Other capital                                           35      -32      -125      -59          7        48         45         25         25         25       25
Allocation of SDRs            a/                        -         -         -        10        10        10         -          -          -          -        -
Change in reserves (--increase)                        215        60       140     142         75        75        -30        -30        -30        -30      -30
Gross International reserves (end year)                 32        48        59       62       105        82        172        289        332        385      445
Reserves as months imports                                .3        .5        .6       .5        .7        .5         .9        1.4        1.4        1.4      1.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                                    143       116       224      178       194       454        642        601        475        573      533
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                       830       890      1000    1095        1209      1558      2005       2398       2697       3057      3341
Official (end year)                                                                                                                               -
o/W IBRD                                            59        68       112      127        171
Undisbursed debt (end year)                          262       320       386      377        369
OIW IBRD                                            68       101        99      139         89
Debt service                                                                                                                                                              °
Public service payments                              111       148       189      193       170       301        316        355        360        406      465
Interest                                            54        57        67       90       103       124        121        147        184        193      216
Payments as % of exports of goods and services        12.1      14.9      16.7    15.8       12.0       20.3      19.7       18.7       16.1       16.0    16.0
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__----------------.----------------------------------------------------__-----__--------
a/ Includes commercial arrears.
b/ Preliminary



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1982
…---US$ million-----
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                                (less cancellation)
No.    Year    Borrower            Purpose                    Bank  Undisbursed
13 loans fually disbursed 1/                                 129.4
1003   1974      Jamaica            Sites & Services           15.0       2.5
1146   1975      The Water          Sewerage/Water             15.0       2.9
Commission
1284   1976      Jamaica            Population                  6.8       2.5
1464   1977      Jamaica            Rural Development          15.0       7.0
1516   1978      Jamaica Public   Power                        20.0       3.4
Service Co. Ltd.
1517   1978      Sugar Industry   Agriculture                  18.0       7.3
Authority
1609   1979      Jamaica            Small Scale Industry        7.0       1.1
1715   1979      Jamaica            Second Program Loan        31.5       0.4
1716   1979      Jamaica            Forestry                   12.0       7.1
1740   1979      Jamaica            Highways                   16.0       8.2
1978   1981      Jamaica            Export Development         37.0      25.2
Fund
2017   1981      Petroleum Co.    Offshore Petroleum            7.5       7.5
Exploration
2070   1982      Jamaica            Third Education             6.8       6.8
2105   1982      Jamaica            Structural Adjustment   76.2         23.5
2106   19822/   Jamaica            Technical Assistance    6.1         6.1
2107   19824/   Jamaica             Kingston Export Free
Zone                   13.5      13.5
Total (net cancellations)                          432.8
Of which has been repaid                            36.6
Total now outstanding                              396.2
Amount sold                          1.6
Of which has been repaid             1.6             0.0
Total now held by Bank                             396.2
Total undisbursed                                            136.0
1/   Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.
2/   Not effective as of March 31, 1982.  Ln. No. 21Q6 became effective
April 30, 1982.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1982
US$ million
Date      Borrower             Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1961  Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.   Pre-mix concrete           0.2      -        0.2
1969 Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.           Tourism                  2.2      0.7       2.9
1980 West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.           Glass containers         2.3       -        2.3
1982  Jamaica Flour Mills    Food and food pro-
cessing                5.0       -        5.0
9.7     0.7      10.4
Less cancellations, terminations
participations, sales and repayments            1.9       -        1.9
Total commitments now held by IFC                7.8      0.7       8.5
Total Undisbursed                                3.3       -        3.3
C.  Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1003-JM: Sites and Services: US$15.0 million Loan of June 13,
1974; Effective date: September 9, 1974;
Closing date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is about 4-1/2 years behind schedule due
to delays in establishing and staffing the project unit and problems with
contractors. These delays resulted in a substantial cost overrun of the
original project. In view of the Government's budgetary constraints the
project has therefore been restructured to allow for some reduction in the
number of lots to be developed and for a significant reduction in housing
standards. The Government has recently proposed additional changes
involving the provision of shell houses on uncommitted lots and the
conversion of one site into an industrial estate. The Barik will study
these proposals but has not yet taken a position. The revised project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982.



30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Ln. No. 1146-JM: Kingston Sewerage and Water Supply Project: US$15 million
Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective date: June 24, 1976;
Closing date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is more than 3 years behind the appraisal
schedule but is now proceeding satisfactorily. The Borrower's financial
position has, however, continuously deteriorated. A 45% tariff increase
took effect August 1, 1981 but additional measures will be required of the
Borrower in order to comply with the Loan Agreement.
Ln. No. 1284-JM: Second Population Project: US$6.8 million Loan of June
12, 1976; Effective date: August 30, 1976; Closing date:
December 31, 19825
Project implementation has progressed reasonably well. Training
programs and most of the nutrition, education and research activities are
nearly completed. The civil works on health center facilities have been
delayed but are expected to be completed by the September 1982.
Disbursements are however lagging behind. Delays in the preparation of
bidding documents and the acquisition of sites for additional civil works
program need prompt corrective action if the project is to be completed on
schedule.
Ln, No. 1464-J)M: Rural Deve'opment Project:  US$15 million Loan of June 29,
1977; Effective date: October 14, 1977; Closing date:
December 31, 1982.
Project implementation had initially been slow due to shortage of
funds, manpower problems and the difficult general economic situation.
Recent progress has however been encouraging; most project components are
now under implementation and are advancing satisfactorily. About 40% of
the target group of settlers has been placed and a large share of the farm
homes have been completed.
Ln. No. 1516-JM: Second Power Project: US$20 million Loan of March 6,
1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978; Closing date:
September 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily after consi-
derable delays during the initial phase of project implementation, and most
of the loan proceeds have been committed.  JPSC's operations have been
seriously affected by the limited availability of its most fuel efficient
generating units due to poor maintenance and operating procedures and a
lack of spare parts, and the loss of skilled and managerial staff. The
proposed third power loan provides for rehabilitation of these units,
improvements to JPSC's transmission and distribution system, and
strengthening of management and operations with technical assistance and
training. The Government plans tariff action in the near future to improve
JPSC's financial position.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. No. 1517-JM: Sugar Rehabilitation Project:  US$18 million Loan of March
6, 1978; Effective date:  June 1, 1978; Closing date:
June 30, 1983.
Although some progress in the rehabilitation of factories has
been made, implementation slowed down during the last two years due to the
extremely difficult financial position of the National Sugar Company,
executor of the project. The Government is now planning the divestment of
the sugar mills owned by NSC and the dissolution of the sugarcane coopera-
r           tives that supply the cane.  The future of the project will be decided in
negotiations with the Government.
Ln. No. 1609-JM: Small Scale Enterprise Development Project: US$7 million
Loan of August 2, 1978; Effective date: December 27,
1978; Closing date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation of the program for modern small scale enterprises
executed by the Premier Investment Corporation (PIC) is ahead of schedule.
Implementation of the sub-program for very small scale enterprises has been
adversely affected by the uncertainty concerning the institutional arrange-
ments.  Remaining uncommitted funds from this project were recently reallo-
cated to PIC.
Ln. No. 1715-JM: Second Program Loan: US$31.5 million Loan of June 8,
1979; Effective date: August 27, 1979; Closing date:
December 31, 1982.
Loan proceeds allocated to the Export Development Fund to finance
imports of raw materials and components for expansion of nontraditional ex-
ports have been fully disbursed. Implementation of the technical assis-
tance components financed with loan proceeds is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1716-JM: Forestry Project: US$12 million Loan of June 8, 1979;
Effective date: December 11, 1979; Closing date: June
30, 1985.
Project implementation is behind schedule but is proceeding
satisfactorily. Actual planting and clearing has been delayed as a result
of Government decision to reallocate some project land to coffee produc-
tion.
Ln. No. 1740-JM: Fourth Highway Project: US$16 million Loan of July 10,
1979; Effective date: September 20, 1979; Closing date:
March 31, 1983.
The project has encountered serious delays caused primarily by
extraordinary rains and floods in 1979, a hurricane in 1980, shortages of
key staff and of budget resources.  In view of the Government's difficult



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
budgetary position and the need for urgent rehabilitation, the project has
been restructured to allow utilization of loan funds for essential mainte-
nance work by reducing targets for more expensive types of periodic main-
tenance.
Ln. No. 1978-JM: Second Export Development Project: US$37 million Loan of
May 15, 1981; Effective date: August 6, 1981; Closing
date: December 31, 1983.
The loan includes US$22 million for financing of imports of raw
materials and spare parts for expansion of nontraditional exports. In ad-
dition US$10 million are allocated to provide medium-term financing to
exporters and their suppliers for capital equipment and working capital.
US$4 million are to be used for financing inputs of imports for the banana
industry and US$1 million is for technical assistance to JECIC and JNEC.
Ln. No. 2017-JM: Offshore Petroleum Exploration Project: US$7.5 million
Loan of June 16, 1981; Effective date: February 4, 1982;
Closing date: June 30, 1985.
The proJect is directed at promoting exploration of Jamaica's
hydrocarbon potential by strengthening the Petroleum Company of Jamaica
both as a partner of private international companies and as an independent
investor.
Ln. No. 2070-JM: Third Education Project: US$6.8 million Loan of January
14, 1982; Effective date: March 24, 1982; Closing date:
June 30, 1985.
The project is directed at strengthening the technical and voca-
tional education system by expansion of the training capacity in the
College of Arts, Science and Technology, the Vocational Training Develop-
ment Institute, and the Industrial Production Centers. It also provides
for the development of new teaching programs and the provision of learning
materials.
Ln. No. 2105-JM: Structural Adjustment Loan: US$76.2 million Loan of
March 23, 1982; Effective date: March 24, 1982; Closing
date: March 31, 1983.
The loan supports the Government's economic program, which aims
at correcting serious structural weaknesses in the economy through adjust-
ment in macroeconomic industrial and agricultural policies which will pro-
vide a basis for expansion of productive capacity. The loan finances
essential imports; counterpart funds are used for economic development
related expenditures in the public investment program.  The first tranche
(US$50 million) has been disbursed; progress of the structural adjustment
program will be reviewed prior to release of the second tranche.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. No. 2106-JM:3/ Technical Assistance Project: US$6.1 million Loan of
March 23, 1982; Closing date: September 30, 1985.
The loan provides technical assistance to help the Government
implement and monitor its structural adjustment program. The loan is not
yet effective.
Ln. No. 2107-JM: Kingston Free Zone Project: US$13.5 million Loan of
March 23, 1982; Closing date: December 31, 1987.
r
The project is directed at the increasing foreign private
investment and developing manufactured exports through the construction of
shell factory buildings and supporting infrastructure in the Kingston Free
Zone area. The loan is not yet effective.
3/ The loan became effective on April 30, 1982.



34-                    Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
JAMAICA
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Section I   -  (Timetable of Key Events)
(a)  Loan request made to Bank:          July 1981
(b)  Appraisal mission:                  February 1982
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:         May 1982
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    July 1982
Section II  -  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III -  Special Conditions
i.    Additional conditions of effectiveness will be:
(a)  The taking of appropriate measures satisfactory
to the Bank enabling JPS to earn a return of 5%
in 1983 (para 60) and
(b)  Appointment of a chief executive officer with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank (para 54).
ii.   Other special loan conditions will be:
(a)  Any person holding the office of managing
director will have qualifications acceptable to
the Bank (para 54);
(b)  JPS will prepare a detailed program acceptable to
the Bank covering its 1983-84 training needs by
December 31, 1982 (para 57);
(c)  JPS will, with the assistance of external
auditors, evaluate and strengthen its internal
control systems and auditing procedures
not later than June 30, 1983 (para 55);
(d)  JPS will implement programs acceptable to the
Bank to reduce energy losses, reduce accounts
receivable and record customer outages (para 58
and 61);



- 35 -                       Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(e) JPS will engage consultants under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank to assist in
generation planning, financial planning, power
plant rehabilitation, and systems operation,
training, and maintenance (paras 55, 58, 64)
(f)  Government will permit JPS to increase tariffs suf-
*                                    ficiently to earn a return of 5% in 1983, 8% in
1984 and 8.5% in 1985 and annually thereafter
(para 60);
(g) JPS will limit the construction of works addi-
tional to those agreed with the Bank to no more
than 2% of gross fixed assets in operation
(revalued) until the project has been completed
(para 61);
(h) Limitations on short and long-term borrowing
(para 61);
(i) JPS will issue, if the Bank should so request,
debentures as security for the proposed loan
(para 63); and
(j) JPS will submit annual audited financial state-
ment to the Bank (para 60).



I               I                                                                                                                                                         r



IBRD 12602R1
78°00'                                                          77 30'                                                         77O00'                                                           76'30'                            MARCH 1982
JAMAICA
Third Power Project
Pro ect   Future  c,O-strction E.isting
----  -              138 kv tronsmission lines
-   -------      ci691k transmiss on lines
@    0      Substations
Power plants:
18-30'-
-18'30                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MUtego B.  Rio B....  C-d; Hrl1  Hydro
Locea                     'RO~~~~~~~~GUE                                -     ~     -0                                                                                                                                       Diesel
0                              sJ                                     DUNCANS t          :            _n                                                                                                                           Dee
Glag-                                                                                                                   Roaring RRes  Wh0te River
0                                                                                                                                                     U     RRACABESSA
Highg.at.              p, 1         1Yi211  .
0Negril
5VNNA LA MAR                                                                                                                                                                                A $= e geuf  ry
\                                                                    Ew irfon   8 )                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~'>-X-1 Port Antonjo
'    X                    w~~~~~~Mrggotfy\                                                                                                                                                            \
-                                        }Kendal                                                      \ \R o Cobre~~~~~~nd.  C-nst-t Spring\
'°Whlte House   \         /   7\                                                          \ ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Michnltonr Hll  *         Riow Moerroir           
OBI.~~~~k R-,                                                           Wlk~~~~~ Rd52KINGSTONNgoR,r
os~~~~~~~~~~~ 0Rlack -   ' ,\ - Rioer \
Bay station    6.        CA NE  RIVER               Mornrt Rio-r
BAHAMAS                                                                                     -               X                       Horb.,                                          9                x WO--o             t       Rao
CUBA            DOMINICAN                                                                                         Ma,y/
MEXICO                           I   eFR'
-t'BELIZE  jAAA CA      HAITII    PII RTO
I                        ~~~~~~~R CO
f    o        HGNONRA5                 R CO                                                                                                       '=                              0           ro          20           30          40          50
1.I    NICARAGUA
KILOMETERS
o COSTA                                                                                                                                                                        0                   10                 20                  30
RICA    ,t        ~~VE EZULrEA
CA    ~ ~ ~ (.MILES
v  PANAMA                                                                                      77-  3                                                          7                                                                76E 5
COLOMBIA             78-00'                                                         77 ,3O'                                                         77 00'                                                           76Q3e'



