Report No. PID8688
Project Name                     Venezuela-Millenium Science
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Social Sector
Project ID                       VEPE66749
Borrower(s)                      Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Science and Technology
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 4, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             April 13, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Main sector issues
The government sponsored S&T research system in Venezuela consists of 19
public universities and several research institutes, with IVIC being the
largest. Despite of some recent efforts to improve the quality of research,
such as the "Researcher Promotion Program" (Programa de Promoci6n del
Investigador - PPI), and "University Extension Programs", the Venezuelan S&T
system is still constrained in ways that substantially hinder its
performance. For instance, major bottlenecks to advanced training keep
Venezuela's supply of human resources for S&T insufficient for renewal and
growth. Resources for R&D are generally scarce and fragmented. Funding and
implementation procedures do not appropriately support good research output.
Planning for the sector is weak and uncoordinated. Together, these factors
perpetuate a system that is small, not efficient and flexible enough, and
relatively isolated rather than integrated on national and international
levels. The main constraints can be classified in two groups: (a) procedures
and practices that inhibit optimal performance in research and training, and
(b) scarcity of resources, both human and capital.
(a) Procedures and practices that inhibit optimal performance in research and
training
Quality and relevance of research are often inadequate. In 1999, the research
system in Venezuela consists of approximately 5,000 researchers, but only
about one third of them qualify according to the standards of the Venezuelan
Researcher Promotion Program (Programa de Promoci6n del Investigador - PPI)
as international-scale researchers with publications in journals included in
the Science Citation Index (SCI). According to the PPI statistics, Venezuelan
scientists publish 600-700 scientific papers in internationally recognized
journals per year (in average each PPI researcher publishes 1 paper per two
years). The number of patents in very low. According to Cetto & Vessuri,
1998, data from CYTED/RICYT 1997, Venezuela contributes less than 0.05% of
world's scientific articles, which is far less than Chile (0.2%), Mexico
(0.3%), Argentina (0.4%), and Brazil (0.6%).



Efficiency and quality of research are not stimulated enough and not
systematically evaluated and rewarded. Except for some notable voluntary
efforts, there are no quality assessment mechanisms nor direct financial or
promotional incentives for researchers and university teachers in public
sector to improve the quality, relevance and efficiency of research. By
contrast, most private higher education institutions (except from a few
traditional private universities, such as P. Universidad Catolica de
Venezuela) are driven by profit, and therefore most often do not undertake
any research at all.
Conditions and quality of research are disparate. At present, more than
eighty percent of PPI qualified researchers work in five strongest research
and education institutions. Almost all of PPI researchers come from public
universities and institutes with longest scientific tradition, while S&T
research groups are practically non-existent at private higher education
institutions. The main reason for this is the governmental financial policy,
which only supports national (public) educational and research institutions.
Excessive bureaucratic constraints hamper researchers. Bureaucratic
procedures significantly diminish researcher effectiveness. One example of
these restrictions is that research groups at public universities and
institutes are not free to replace a retired member of the group, or to
enlarge the number of Ph.D. students in the lab, even if they work in a
rapidly expanding field and have a promising research program. On the other
hand, there may be a surplus of researchers and teachers in another field.
Cooperation between different faculties, universities and research institutes
is also very difficult and rare, which makes interdisciplinary research
almost impossible.
Insufficient long-term planning. Policy and long-term planning for the S&T
sector has been generally weak and uncoordinated. Until recently, the
responsibility for S&T policy has not been clearly assigned to any agency or
institution. Recently, a new Ministry of Science and Technology (MS&T) has
been created, which will be responsible for science and technology policy,
for coordination, and for the implementation of policy instruments.
(b) Scarcity of resources
Number of researchers in S&T is too small. In 1995, according to UNESCO
statistics, Venezuela had 208 scientists and engineers in R&D per million of
inhabitants, which is about ten times less than in the industrialized
countries.
The present influx of new Ph.D. graduates cannot cover the needs. Higher
education sector in Venezuela is in rapid expansion. The total enrollment of
higher education students increased by 66.4w in ten years. Currently, only
about 100 Ph.D. students graduate per year, which cannot replace retired
professors at tertiary education institutions alone. Additionally, more
highly qualified S&T specialists are needed to build a solid knowledge base
in research institutes and industrial R&D departments in areas that are key
to the economic and social development of Venezuela.
Scarcity of funds for necessary equipment limits the scope of research in
Venezuela and virtually excludes Venezuelan scientists from working on
cutting edge research problems in advanced areas in many disciplines. They
- 2 -



simply cannot afford the equipment needed for such work.
Government strategy
In Venezuela, research has been mainly limited to public universities with
the longest tradition, and to large research institutes, such as IVIC. Until
recently, long-term planning for science and technology (S&T) has been
uncoordinated, and the resources for R&D relatively scarce and fragmented.
The result was a S&T system with a limited scope, reduced flexibility and
efficiency, which was isolated rather than integrated on national and
international levels. The goal of the present government and the newly
established Ministry of Science and Technology is to improve the S&T system,
both in quality and in quantity, with the concomitant social and economic
impacts, to be able to better support the country's development efforts.
The new S&T minister's vision is to (i) establish coherent policies in the
national science and technology sector, and (ii) consolidate a National
Innovation System (NIS), (iii) introduce incentives for the formation of the
critical mass of high quality researchers, and (iv) support research and
development in priority technological areas (food technology, biotechnology,
metallurgy and petrochemistry, infrastructure and informatics, environmental
science and technology).
The MS&T will have two Vice Ministries: (1) Vice Ministry for Planning and
Policy, responsible for S&T production, policy analysis and formulation,
planning, institutional cooperation (with universities, research
laboratories, national institutes and R&D entities of other ministries) and
international cooperation: (2) Vice Ministry for Research and Innovation,
responsible for human resources, research and development, technology
transfer, monitoring and evaluation. The Ministry will further establish
cross cutting task forces or working groups that will work across sectors and
directorates in the selected areas of research, such as biotechnology.
The MS&T also anticipates the need to modernize the modus operandi of the
Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones CientUficas y Tecnol6gicas (CONICIT) and
its funding instruments and strategies.
The World Bank has responded to the Government's request for assistance with
a proposed LIL. The LIL would assist in (a) the initiation of new policies
and (b) with the establishment of a technology fund - Fondo Technologico,
which would support the Minister's agenda by establishing a competitive
environment for state-of-the-art S&T research and incentives for national and
international networking.
2. Objectives
The purpose of the project is to strengthen Venezuela's R&D capacity so that
the country can gain access to global knowledge and improve the knowledge
base in areas that are key to its economic and social development. This would
be accomplished through the support of advanced training of human capital by
international level scientists engaged in high quality research.
The project Millennium Science Initiative (MIS) has two phases: (1) a
learning and innovation phase supported by a Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL) - for two years, and (2) a follow-on phase related to potential
-3 -



improvements in the sector which will follow if the LIL leads to successful
follow-on activities - for additional eight years.
The specific project development objective is to explore and demonstrate how
to revitalize Venezuela's science and technology (S&T) system. The project is
expected to energize the R&D sector that is in many cases characterized by
excessive bureaucracy. It will demonstrate and stimulate adoption of
transparent quality assessment mechanisms and efficient merit-based
allocation procedures. The project will encourage investigator autonomy in
improving the quality and efficiency of scientific research and training and
will reward research system productivity and efficiency. The project will
also promote integration and partnership with more scientifically advanced
countries, as well as with Venezuela's regional partners.
An important objective of the LIL is to show that, under proper procedures,
Venezuela can perform S&T research at high international standards of quality
and productivity, and that the high quality international level scientific
research can be expanded and sustained within Venezuela's S&T research
budget. The LIL is therefore planned as an initial phase of a larger MSI
program, which would in a period of eight to ten years spread positive
experiences from the LIL phase to the rest of the S&T system in Venezuela.
The follow-on development objective is to revitalize the Venezuelan national
innovation system by increasing the country's capacity to produce, gain
access to, and adapt scientific and technological knowledge. More Ph.D.
students would be trained at higher quality and within the country,
increasing the cost-effectiveness of the training. More and higher quality
scientific output is expected, some of which may have direct implications for
industry. The cumulative effect of increased human capital and knowledge
stocks would, in the long term, move Venezuela closer to parity with the
world's more knowledge-based economies.
The LIL will partly finance: (a) capacity building for the new Ministry of
Science and Technology, with technical support to set up national S&T
policies and a light management structure for MSI; (b) competitive fund for
scientific excellence to support: (i) 3-5 established international level
research groups, with investigator autonomy and adequate levels of longer-
term funding, known as "Centers of Excellence" (CE), and about 8-12 emerging
groups of high quality younger researchers, with investigator autonomy and
adequate levels of medium-term funding, known as "Nuclei for Excellent
Research" (NER); (ii) national and international networking and outreach
activities for the promotion of scientific excellence, that promote exchange
of knowledge and spread the benefits of top-quality research to potential
collaborators and benefactors, be they students, fellow researchers, and/or
partners from business and industry.
An important feature of the LIL will be a selective process for granting
awards. This process is planned to include participation of high level
international scientists, and fund only researchers whose work is deemed to
be at internationally accepted standard of quality and productivity.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
-4-



A. Capacity building: Capacity for Change and Management Structure for
Millennium Science Initiative "Ministry, CONICIT and the MSI Directorate"
B. Competitive fund for Scientific Excellence:
B1. Centers and Nuclei of Scientific Excellence
Funding of research projects at about 3-5 CE and about 8-12 NER
B2. Network for the promotion of Scientific Excellence
Funding of visits, exchange programs for researchers, post-docs and graduate
students, design and delivery of international advanced courses,
dissemination of lessons learned
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                                10
IBRD                                      5
IDA
Total Project Cost                        15
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   Through its support of environmentally sound research
projects (one of the Venezuela's priority research areas) and through
practices for laboratory safety and disposal of hazardous materials, the
project is expected to have a positive impact on environment.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-6712
Fax:        (202) 614-0905
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 11, 2000.
- 5 -



