Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19853
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO THE BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR THE
MILLENNIUM SCIENCE INITIATIVE PROJECT
April 28, 2000
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department Unit for Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Bolivares (Bs.)
Bs. 1.00 = US$ 1/660.25
US$ 1.00 = Bs. 660.25
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BD         Board of Directors                                MS&T    Ministry of Science and Technology
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                       MSI       Millennium Science Initiative
CE         Centers of Excellence                             NCB       National Competitive Bidding
CENAMEC National Center for Improving of Science Teaching    NER       Nuclei for Excellent Research
CDSHyT    Board for Scientific and Technological Development   NIS     National Innovation System
CNU        Consejo Nacional de Universidades                 OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
CONAC      National Council for Culture                      OPSU      Oficina de Planificaci6n del Sector Universitario
CONACYT  National Science and technology Council (Mexico)    PAD       Project Appraisal Document
CONICIT   Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y  PC        Program Committee
Tecnol6gicas
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Review             Ph.D.    Doctor of Philosophy degree
CQ         Consultant Qualifications                         Pi        Principal Investigators
FMS        Financial Management System                       PPI       Programa de Promoci6n del Investigador
FGMA       Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho                PpP      Purchasing Power Parity
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                            QCBS    Quality and Cost Based Selection
GNP        Gross National Product                            R&D       Research and Development
IADB       Inter-American Development Bank                   S&T       Science and Technology
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and        SCI       Science Citation Index
Development
ICR        Implementation Completion Report                  SIL       Sector Investment Loan
IDA        International Development Association             SOE       Statement of Expenditures
IMIU       Implementation and Management Unit                UNDP    United Nations Development Program
IVIC       Instituto Venezolano de Investigaciones Cientificas  UNESCO  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
LL         Learning and Innovation Loan                      US NSF   United States National Science Foundation
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation                         WDR       World Development Report
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Andres Solimano
Sector Director:     Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader:        Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen



VENEZUELA
MILLENNIUM SCIENCE INITIATIVE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                        7
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                  8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    8
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         8
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                               10
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             12
2. Financial                                                                            12
3. Technical                                                                            12
4. Institutional                                                                        12
5. Environment                                                                          13
6. Social                                                                               14
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       16
2. Critical risks                                                                       16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       16
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              17
2. Other                                                                                17



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           17
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          17
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Assumptions and Expected Benefits
Annex 5: Economic Analysis and Related Issues
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex 11: Indicators and Description of Venezuela's S & T Sector
MAP(S)



VENEZUELA
MILLENNIUM SCIENCE INITIATIVE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHE
Date: November 2, 1999                           Team Leader: Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano        Sector Manager/Director: Xavier E. Coll
Project ID: P066749                              Sector(s): ET - Higher Education
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
1 Loan         C Credit        El Grant        El Guarantee    1 Other (Specify)
Learning and Innovation Loan
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 5 Million
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source -                                 Local        foreif-  Total 
GOVERNMENT                                                    15.00          -5.00        10.00
IBRD                                                          0.00           5.00          5.00
Total:                                                        15.00          0.00          15.00
Borrower: BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
CONICIT
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
tFY .n.a   2000         201          2002
Annual     0.5           1.5         3.0
Cumulative     0.5          2.0         5.0
Project implementation period: 07/01/2000 - 12/31/2002
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2003
OCS PAD F- D   M3.dl, 220



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The purpose of the project is to strengthen the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela's (Venezuela)
R&D capacity so that the country can gain access to global knowledge and improve its
knowledge base in areas that are key to its economic and social development. This would be
accomplished through the support of advanced training of human capital and research activities
with high potential. The objective of the project is to demonstrate the effectiveness of
transparent, merit-based allocation procedures and investigator autonomy in improving
the quality and efficiency of scientific research and training.
The Millennium Science Initiative (MSI) Project has two phases: (1) a learning and innovation
phase supported by a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) for two-and-one-half years, and (2) a
follow-on phase related to the potential improvements in the sector which will follow if the LIL
leads to successful follow-on activities, for an additional eight years.
The specific project development objective is to demonstrate how to revitalize Venezuela's
science and technology (S&T) system. The project is supported by a LIL and is expected to
energize the R&D sector, which, in many cases, is characterized by excessive bureaucracy. It will
demonstrate and stimulate adoption of transparent quality assessment mechanisms and efficient
merit-based allocation procedures. The project will encourage investigator autonomy by
improving the quality and efficiency of scientific research and training, and it will reward research
system productivity and efficiency. The project will also promote integration and partnership with
more scientifically advanced countries as well as with Venezuela's regional partners.
An important objective of the LIL is to show that, under proper procedures, Venezuela can
perform S&T research at high international standards of quality and productivity, and that the
high quality, international level, scientific research can be expanded and sustained within
Venezuela's S&T research budget. The LIL is therefore planned as an initial phase of a larger
MSI program, which would, in a period of eight to ten years, spread positive experiences from the
LIL phase to the rest of the S&T system in Venezuela.
As part of a region-wide initiative, the MSI is specifically designed to suit the particular country
needs and circumstances within the same conceptual framework. The LIL further draws on
experiences and lessons from the first MSI Project in Chile currently under implementation, which
were transferred to the Venezuelan context.
The follow-on development objective, to be pursued during the second phase, is to revitalize the
Venezuelan National Innovation System (NIS), a complex system of institutions and practices (see
Annex 3), by increasing the country's capacity to produce, gain access to, and adapt scientific and
technological knowledge. More Ph.D. students would be trained at a higher quality and within the
country, increasing the cost-effectiveness of the training. More and higher quality scientific output
is expected, as is greater incorporation of research results into production. The cumulative effect
of increased human capital and knowledge stocks would, in the long term, move Venezuela closer
- 2 -



to parity with the world's more knowledge-based economies.
The LIL will partly finance: (a) capacity building for the new Ministry of Science and
Technology, technical support to set up national S&T policies, and a light management structure
for the MSI; and (b) a competitive fund for scientific excellence to support: (i) established
international level research groups, with investigator autonomy and adequate levels of longer-term
funding, known as "Centers of Excellence" (CE), and about 8-12 emerging groups of high quality,
younger researchers, with investigator autonomy and adequate levels of medium-term funding,
known as "Nuclei for Excellent Research" (NER); (ii) national and international networking and
outreach activities for the promotion of scientific excellence that promote exchange of knowledge
and spread the benefits of top-quality research to potential collaborators and benefactors, be they
students, fellow researchers, and'or partners from business and industry.
An important feature of the LIL will be a selective process for granting awards. This process is
planned to include participation of high level international scientists, and fund only researchers
whose work is deemed to be at a high standard of quality and productivity.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project will have two sets of performnance indicators.
In the short term, selected indicators will measure whether the S&T policies and funding
processes are in place and functioning, and if the proposed CE and NER have been created. The
indicators of success will be (a) established and implemented national S&T policies at the Ministry
of Science and Technology, with a light administrative structure to oversee the selection and
funding process, linked/integrated with CONICIT; (b) established technology fund, supporting (i)
3 Centers of Excellence and 8-12 Nuclei for Excellent Research, and an increased pool of Ph.D.
students working in CE and NER; and (ii) a regional/international network for the promotion of
research excellence and transfer of knowledge (outreach programs). In the medium term, a series
of measures will indicate whether the research and training being conducted are in accordance
with high international standards. This important indicator will be monitored both quantitatively
and qualitatively, by high level international evaluation teams composed of top international
researchers.
In the long term, the initiative as a whole will be evaluated continuously throughout its projected
10 year life span. Regular evaluations will measure the output and imnpact of the research and
training conducted, through the number of new Ph.D. researchers, through bibliometric indicators,
patents, new products and processes, and tracer studies of employment patterns of individuals
trained. Scientific research is by nature a long-term endeavor, and the initiative must be long-term
enough to accommodate. The LIL, by contrast, has a short time horizon: it will fund only the first
phase of the Millennium Science Initiative. It is expected that a follow-on project will be
requested by the Venezuelan Government.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Countrv Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16471 VE       Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/08/97
-3-



The sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Venezuela states that the Government'
s development agenda is focused towards: "(a) enhancing sustainable growth with stability by
strengthening the fundamentals for economic growth and by fostering a competitive environment
for small and medium enterprises (para. 10); (b) promoting social development by improving the
quality and coverage of basic social services - education, health, housing, water, and sanitation ...
(para. 11); (c) modernizing the public sector by strengthening public administration to improve
governance and increase the effectiveness of public programs ... (para. 12)."
In the long term, the project outcomes would support all three core themes stated in the CAS.
Specifically, the MSI project would raise the quality and enlarge the stock of a critical segment of
human capital contributing to Venezuela's research and development. It has the potential to
positively influence S&T policies and R&D strategies in Venezuela, by demonstrating and
stimulating transparent quality assessment procedures and incentives, rewarding research
productivity, and promoting research groups in Venezuela whose work is at internationally
accepted standards. The project would complement other Bank efforts to improve advanced
training and human capital formation, most notably the effort to stimulate the quality, efficiency
and performance of the higher education sector. It would also support Venezuela's efforts to
improve its integration into the world's knowledge base and knowledge production system.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues
The government-sponsored S&T research system in Venezuela consists of 19 public universities
and several research institutes, with Itnstituto Venezolatio de Investigaciones Cientificas (IVIC) being
the largest. In spite of some recent efforts to improve the quality of research, such as the "
Researcher Promotion Program" (Programa de Promocion del Investigador -PPI), and "
University Extension Programs", the Venezuelan S&T system is still constrained in ways that
substantially hinder its performance. For instance, major bottlenecks to advanced training keep
Venezuela's supply of human resources for S&T insufficient for renewal and growth. Resources
for R&D are generally scarce and fragmented. Funding and implementation procedures do not
appropriately support good research output. Planning for the sector is weak and uncoordinated.
Together, these factors perpetuate a system that is small, inefficient and inflexible, and relatively
isolated rather than integrated on national and international levels. The main constraints can be
classified into two groups: (a) procedures and practices that inhibit optimal performance in
research and training, and (b) scarcity of resources, both human and capital.
(a) Procedures and practices that inhibit optimal performance in research and training
Quality and relevance of research are often inadequate. In 1999, the research system in
Venezuela consisted of approximately 5,000 researchers. Of these, only about one-third met the
standards set by the Venezuelan Researcher Promotion Program (Programa de Promoci6n del
Investigador - PPI) and qualified as international-scale researchers, with publications in journals
included in the Science Citation Index (SCI). According to the PPI statistics, Venezuelan
scientists publish 600-700 scientific papers in internationally recognized journals per year (in
-4 -



average each PPI researcher publishes one paper per two years) and the number of patents is very
low. According to Cetto & Vessuri, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela contributes less than
0.05% of world's scientific articles, which is far less than Chile (0.2%), Mexico (0.3%), Argentina
(0.4%), and Brazil (0.6%).
Efficiency and quality of research are not stimulated enough, and are not systematically
evaluated and rewarded. Except for some notable voluntary efforts, there are no quality
assessment mechanisms, or direct financial or promotional incentives for researchers and
university teachers in the public sector to improve the quality, relevance and efficiency of
research. By contrast, most private higher education institutions (except for a few traditional
private universities, such as P. Universidad Catolica de Venezuela) are driven by profit, and
therefore most often do not undertake research at all.
Conditions and quality of research are disparate. At present, more than eighty percent of PPI
qualified researchers work in the five strongest research and education institutions. Alnost all PPI
researchers come from the public universities and institutes which have the longest scientific
tradition, while S&T research groups are practically non-existent at private higher education
institutions. The main reason for this is government financial policy which supports only national
(public) educational and research institutions.
Excessive bureaucratic constraints hamper researchers. Bureaucratic procedures significantly
diminish researcher effectiveness. One example of these restrictions is that research groups at
public universities and institutes are not free to replace a retired member of the group, or to
enlarge the number of Ph.D. students in the lab, even if they work in a rapidly expanding field and
have a promising research program. On the other hand, there may be a surplus of researchers and
teachers in another field. Cooperation between different faculties, universities and research
institutes is also very difficult and rare, which makes interdisciplinary research almost impossible.
Insufficient long-term planning. Policy and long-term planning for the S&T sector has been
generally weak and uncoordinated. Until recently, the responsibility for S&T policy has not been
clearly assigned to any agency or institution. Recently, a new Ministry of Science and Technology
(MS&T) has been created, which will be responsible for science and technology policy, for
coordination of activities, and for the implementation of policy instruments.
(b) Scarcity of resources
Number of researchers in S&T is too smalL In 1995, according to UNESCO statistics,
Venezuela had 208 scientists and engineers in R&D per million inhabitants. This is about ten times
less than in industrialized countries.
The present influx of new Ph.D. graduates cannot cover the needs. The higher education sector
in Venezuela is in a period of rapid expansion. Total enrollment in higher education increased by
66.4% in ten years. Currently, only about 100 Ph.D. students graduate per year. This number is
not even sufficient to fill the vacancies at tertiary institutions created by retiring professors.
Additionally, more highly qualified S&T specialists are needed to build a solid knowledge base in
-5 -



research institutes and in industrial R&D departments in areas that are key to the economic and
social development of Venezuela.
Scarcity of funds for necessary equipment limits the scope of research in Venezuela and
virtually excludes Venezuelan scientists from working on cutting edge research problems in
advanced areas in many disciplines. They simply cannot afford the equipment needed for such
work.
Government strategy
Research in Venezuela has been mainly limited to those public unviversities with the longest
tradition and to large research institutes such as IVIC. Until recently, long-tenn planning for S&T
has been uncoordinated, and the resources for R&D have been relatively scarce and fragmented.
The result was a S&T system with limited scope, reduced flexibility and efficiency, and which was
isolated rather than integrated on national and international levels. The goal of the present
government and the newly established Ministry of Science and Technology (MS&T) is to improve
the S&T system, both in quality and in quantity, with the concomitant social and economic
impacts, to be able to better support the country's development efforts.
The new S&T Minister's vision is to (i) establish coherent policies in the national science and
technology sector, (ii) consolidate a National Innovation System (NIS), (iii) introduce incentives
for the fornation of a critical mass of high quality researchers, and (iv) support research and
development in priority technological areas (food production, sustainable development, new
materials and processes, and communication and infonnation technology).
The MS&T has two Vice Ministries: (I) the Vice Ministry for Planning and Policy, responsible
for S&T production, policy analysis and formulation, planning, institutional cooperation (with
universities, research laboratories, national institutes and R&D entities of other ministries) and
international cooperation; and (2) the Vice Ministry jor Research and Innovation, responsible for
human resources, research and development, technology transfer, monitoring and evaluation. The
Ministry will further establish cross-cutting task forces or working groups that will work across
sectors and directorates in the selected areas of research such as biotechnology.
The MS&T also anticipates the need to modernize the imodus operandi of the Consejo Nacional
de Inivestigaciones Cientificas y Tecnol6gicas (CONICIT) and its funding instruments and
strategies. The linkage of the Project with CONICIT, critical for sustainability and maximum
impact, is based on experiences with the first Millennium Science Initiative in Chile.
The World Bank has responded to the Government's request for assistance with a proposed LIL.
The LIL would assist (a) in the initiation of new policies, and (b) with the establishment of a
technology fund (Fondo Tecnol6gico) which would support the Minister's agenda by establishing
a competitive environment for state-of-the-art S&T research and incentives for national and
international networking.
The proposed World Bank investment complements a recent Second Science and Technology
-6 -



Program loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) for US$100 million (total
project cost is US$200 million). The objective of the IADB loan is to support the actions of
CONICIT to strengthen the National Innovation System through capacity building and training of
new researchers in priority fields, and to facilitate interaction and cooperation among the various
stakeholders in the NIS. The World Bank project, by comparison, is investing in capacity building
for the new MS&T and in the creation of Centers and Nuclei of Excellence, which will eventually
lead to the production of S&T research of high international standards of quality and productivity.
This is expected to introduce a culture of reform that will lead to a positive change in existing
rules and practices, and promote transparent and fair competition throughout the system.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The proposed LIL will address the two groups of constraints described above: (a) procedures and
practices that inhibit optimal performance in research and training, and (b) scarcity of high quality,
relevant research in S&T. The Centers and Nuclei of Scientific Excellence will be designed to be
free from these constraints. Neither the increased investment in human resources nor reform of
the rules and procedures alone would significantly improve performance. A principal value of the
Centers and Nuclei of Scientific Excellence will be the demonstration of large perfornance gains
resulting from the combination of increased' investment and an improved set of rules for the
allocation and use of these resources.
The benefits from investments in S&T research could be greatly increased in a system that
operates under internationally proven procedures for best practice in research funding and
administration. As part of a region-wide initiative with lessons learned from the Chilean
experience, the Millennium Science Initiative requires that the following basic principles guide the
further development of this concept:
*      rThe core activity would be the selection of the most creative scientists available to the
country for training of high quality human resources through the performance of high quality
research. Individuals selected to conduct this training must have an internationally recognized
reputation for excellence and achievement in their fields.
*     Activities and individuals involved would be selected from multi-investigator proposals in
fair, open, and transparent competition. The selection process would include high-level
international peer evaluation. The selected research directors must exhibit strong leadership
qualities.
*     The resources made available to the Centers and Nuclei of Scientific Excellence must be
appropriate to the objectives and under the control of the investigators (free from bureaucratic
constraints).
*     The centers must reach out to, and interact with other entities, be they in industry or in the
education and social sectors.
The different benefits are expected to accrue to the initiative at different stages. The impact of
transparent, objective, merit-based procedures- should be felt immediately and consolidate over
time as the initiative gains a reputation for funding in this manner. International experience
strongly suggests that the existence of these effective procedures create peer pressure for the
-7 -



elimination of remaining non-transparent funding systems. Benefits due to advancement of
knowledge do not obey a strictly predictable timetable; they may appear or be realized
immediately, or, more usually, increase over time as the quantity of high quality research
increases. Benefits due to improved human resources training conform to the time schedules for
degree and study programs (5 years in the case of Ph.D.s, less time for post-doctoral training).
Finally, the impact of improved human capital occurs when the trained human resources are
absorbed into the labor market. This last benefit depends on several concomitant factors outside
the control of the initiative. It is important to note that the accrual of benefits is not linear - 10%
of the initiative's benefits will not appear when the project is 10% complete. For this reason, the
initiative should be undertaken in an appropriate time frame - a minimum of ten years - if it is
undertaken at all.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
LII Economic    I Technical     I Social      Cl Participation
Z Financial     3 Institutional  D Environmental O Other
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A. Capacity Building:              Institutional        1.02       7.0       0.50      10.6
Al. Institutional Strengthening    Development
A2. Capacity for Change and
Management Structure
B. Competitive Fund for Scientific  Institutional      12.00      82.5       3.47      73.5
Excellence:                        Development
B 1. Centers and Nuclei of Scientific
Excellence
Funding of research projects at about 3
CE and about 8-12 NER
B2. Network for the Promotion of   Institutional        1.52       10.5      0.75      15.9
Scientific Excellence              Development
Funding of visits, exchange programs
for researchers, post-docs and graduate
students, design and delivery of
intemational advanced courses,
dissemination of lessons learned
Total Project Costs                    14.54     100.0       4.72     100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00        0.0       0.00       0.0
-8 -



Total Financing Required                14.54     100.0     4.72    100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The LIL phase of this project would be implemented over a period of
two-and-one-half years, as the first phase of the ten-year Millennium Science Initiative. During the
first 6 months, a management structure for the MSI would be created, the grant selection process
would take place, and the grant contracts would be signed. During the remaining 24 months,
awards would be disbursed, research conducted, the project networking and outreach activities
would be implemented, and a second round of competition would take place.
Implementing agencies: A light administrative structure, attached to the new Ministry of Science
and Technology,would implement the MSI. The MS&T would establish an agreement with
CONICIT and utilize personnel from CONICIT to perform implementation duties as necessary
and appropriate. The structure would be comprised of: (a) a Board of Directors, chaired by the
Minister of Science and Technology, which would provide broad management oversight; (b) a
Program Committee, composed of six distinguished individuals of international stature and
representative of Venezuelan R&D priority fields, which would direct and execute the grant
award selection process and other activities that require scientific expertise; (c) an Implementation
and Management Unit (IMU), composed of an Executive Director, a Deputy Director, an
Accountant, an Executive Secretary, and others as deemed necessary. The IMU would have
responsibility for all day-to-day administration of the selection process, grant contracting, and
grant management. Procurement would be decentralized, with most decisions and actions taken
by CE and NER, but under the supervision and aegis of the IMU. In general, individuals who
exercise decision-making power with respect to the work of the MSI must excuse themselves
when they have. interests that directly compete with the objectives of the MSI. This includes-
members of the Board of Directors, the Program Committee, the IMU, and peer reviewers.
Overall, CONICIT, following technical and policy decisions by the Board of Directors, would be
responsible for the Competitive Fund, Network for the Promotion of Scientific Excellence, and
Project Management, while the MS&T would carry out Institutional Strengthening.
Key policies. The present Venezuelan Government supports the development of a national vision
for S&T and the establishment of a coherent set of policies. This is evident from the recently
established Ministry of Science and Technology (MS&T) which was made responsible for science
and technology policy, coordination of activities, and for the implementation of policy
instruments. According to the new minister's agenda, the key challenge for the new ministry will
be to establish a critical mass for innovation and research and to consolidate a National Innovation
System (NIS). The Ministry intends to establish a task force with the productive sector to support
technology transfer to production. It also intends to work with the Ministry of Education to
support universities in postgraduate training and research, and support centers of excellence in
scientific research and technology. By investing sufficient resources in advanced human capital,
the Ministry intends to establish incentives for the formation of a critical mass of research
excellence, which will focus on selected priority fields in food production, sustainable
development, new materials and processes, and communication and information technology. The
Ministry also plans to modernize CONICIT and its funding instruments to support the strategies
-9-



and goals of the National Innovation System.
Institutional reform always presents a challenge. Some Venezuelan S&T research and higher
education institutions are more prepared to implement and benefit from proposed changes than
others. The same is true for individual researchers within each institution. However, the LIL, with
centers and nuclei of excellence, will permit the selected leading institutions to advance. This will
serve as an example for other institutions still preparing to enter the competition, and lead. to
changes and improvements. Additionally, with the creation of the new Ministry for Science and
Technology and the appointment of a Minister for S&T, there will be a redefining of
responsibilities for CONICIT. The Ministry of Science and Technology will be responsible for
setting, implementing and monitoring new and current S&T policy. CONICIT will be responsible
for funding S&T through competitive mechanisms. Reforms of this nature may require a bit of
time while institutions adjust to their respective roles, but it is anticipated that this reform will lead
to a positive change in existing rules and practices, and promote a culture of transparent and fair
competition.
The benefits of adequate S&T capacity are well recognized: economic growth based on
productivity improvements that well-trained S&T human capital can make possible, plus the
potential positive externalities that may accrue to civil society in sectors such as food production,
sustainable development, new materials and processes, and communication and information
technology. Venezuelan society would also expect to benefit through the better return on the
public investment made in R&D.
The target populations are qualified potential doctoral and post-doctoral S&T candidates,
creative young researchers, established scientists and top quality research groups who are
currently hindered by scarcity of resources and by rigid or inefficient procedures and practices that
inhibit optimal performance in research and training.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Accounting, Budgeting and Financial Reports. CONICIT's general internal control
environment was reviewed, including its organization, planning, budgeting, accounting records,
financial reporting, supervision and auditing. The Implementation and Management Unit (IMU)
will incorporate competent financial, accounting and procurement staff, and would be established
at CONICIT to control the project's financial resources and disbursements, maintain accounting
and budgeting records, and produce the financial reports according to the project's administration
needs and Bank's requirements.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOE). Initial deposits into the Special Account and the
replenishments, up to the Authorized Allocations set out in the Disbursement Letter, will be made
on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903), accompanied with the supporting and
other documentation as specified in the Disbursement Handbook. Once the integrated project
financial management system is implemented at the IMU in accordance with LACI requirements
and is certified as such by the Bank, a migration to a PMR-based type of disbursements may
occur.
-10-



Auditing. An independent audit firm, acceptable to the Bank, should be appointed in sufficient
time to carry out periodic reviews of the sources and application of funds and other financial
statements required by the Bank. The audit should be performed in accordance with generally
accepted international auditing standards, and the Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits
of Projects with Financing by the World Bank in Latin America and Caribbean Region, published
May 1999. Audit reports would be presented to the Bank no later than six months after the
closing date of the previous calendar year.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The IMU would be responsible for coordinating
M&E activities, under the guidance and oversight of the Program Committee, where appropriate.
They would monitor both the conduct and the output of the funded research and related data from
the project and S&T indicators as a whole. The main M&E tasks would be: (a) to establish the
baseline data for both long and short term indicators; (b) to collect information and data as
required on the project and the R&D sector as a whole; (c) to work with the Program Committee
and oversee any special studies or M&E activities contracted to consultants; and (d) to coordinate
and facilitate the work and site visits of the panels that conduct the annual external evaluations.
Annual Reports: The Director or Principal Investigator of each CE and NER would prepare an
annual report prior to April 1 of each calendar year. These reports would contain a self evaluation
on the implementation progress of the research, the scientific results and their dissemination and
impact, the progress of the training of students and post-docs, and the extent, nature, and success
of the network and outreach activities. The Program Committee would generate a consolidated
annual report for the MSI by June 1, integrating the results of all monitoring and evaluation
activities, including its own evaluation of project progress. These may contain recommendations
for policy changes and mid-course corrections, subject to Bank approval. Data related to the
sector as a whole would be collected either by the IMU or through targeted studies commissioned
by the Program Committee.
External Evaluation: During the learning phase of the MSI, a small team of three independent
reviewers would visit Venezuela for one week to make an evaluation report on the progress of all
project components. This visit would occur in 2001 and essentially be a mid-term review. The
evaluation report would be ready prior to October 1. The panelists would conduct brief site visits
to all sub-projects. Prior to their visit, the panelists would review the annual reports submitted by
the CEs and the NERs, plus any other relevant M&E data produced by the IMU or its
consultants. The panelists would produce a report evaluating, among other things, the scientific,
economic, financial, and cost/effectiveness aspects of the project. The purpose of these
evaluations would be to subject the project's own M&E data to outside scrutiny, to gain an
independent view of impact, and to summarize lessons learned. The specific purpose of the review
would be to gather all relevant experience from the first year of operation and to provide the
Government and the Bank with detailed recommendations. The evaluation would review the
establishment of the management structure of the MSI, the selection process of the CEs and the
NERs and the initiation of training and research activities at the CEs and NERs. The evaluation
would identify bottlenecks in the administrative process, including organizational, disbursement,
procurement, and financial management procedures. The Government would then decide on how
to continue into the next phase of the MSI. The reports of the panelists would serve as input into



the Implementation Completion report. Panelists would generally be non-Venezuelans with
experience, in research funding and science policy. Peer reviewers of subprojects may serve as
review panelists, if appropriate.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
There are positive economic consequences expected to all the proposed improvements to be
piloted (efficiency in selection and administration, improved working conditions in S&T research
groups, and increased training for young researchers). In the short term, one can expect to profit
and learn most from the increased efficiency and better use of resources. The assumption is that in
the absence of the project, resources are still too small to lead to world class research output, and
that the most productive researchers are being deprived of the resources they need to work
properly. In the longer term, one expects to see a stimulating effect of the project on innovation'
trends and positive labor market responses to those trained in connection with the funded
research. One also expects to see more collaboration between firms and public sector
(university-based) researchers, and, as a result, commercialization of more research outputs. The
assumption is that the skills gained through research would produce knowledge that can be
translated into goods and services.
2. Financial '(see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
In the short term, it will become apparent whether improved administrative efficiency makes
investigators more productive. Clear international benchmarks on the speed, efficiency, and
effectiveness of science administration institutions exist, and the IMU would be measured against
these. These benchmarks deal primarily with the percentage of overall funding spent on
administration, and the speed and efficiency with which resources are passed to researchers.
3. Technical:
[For LL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
The key technical issue is whether presence of high-level international scientists in the selection
process, and more open and merit-based selection criteria would create a system that functions at
the level of the best international systems (generally from OECD countries). Much of the
effectiveness of the best systems comes from the knowledge and the strict adherence to the
-12 -



highest procedural standards, embodied in the people who comprise it. The assumption is that
lack of such people in the selection processes in countries like Venezuela is a key constraint and
that inserting them would catalyze improved research performance.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
In the short term, the institutional issues relate to the extent to which the new mechanisms are
perceived as improvements and thereby diminish a perception of lack of incentives for higher
quality in Venezuela's R&D system. It is possible that the MSI will function well, but that the
project success could be frustrated at the level of the research institutions. This might occur
through stakeholder resistance to change, or simply through the influence of inflexible
bureaucracies. The long term question is, to what extent will institutions adopt improved
procedures introduced by the project. This may occur through a type of social learning, discussed
in section (5) below.
4.2 Project management:
The Implementation and Management Unit (IMU) will incorporate competent financial,
accounting and procurement staff, and would be established at CONICIT to control the project's
fnancial resources and disbursements, maintain accounting and budgeting record and produce the
financial reports according to Project's administration needs and Bank's requirements.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The IMU's capacity to implement procurement actions for the project has been assessed and
approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor. A new procurement law was issued in
September 1999. Special provisions to make its provisions consistent with Bank guidelines were
incorporated in the loan documents and will also be reflected in regulations to the new law to be
enacted effectively. A detailed procurement plan covers the procurement of goods and consultant
services according to the Project Operational Manual and with conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement records are foreseen to keep track of time taken to implement key steps and to
monitor all activities.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Conditions of financial management of the MSI have been assessed by a Financial Management
Specialist. The project satisfies the Bank requirements for financial accounting and auditing, puts
arrangements for intemal control mechanisms in place, and provides for Project Management
Reporting. A two-phase time-bound Financial Management Action Plan is planned, with Phase A
to be completed prior to effectiveness and Phase B not later than January 30, 2001.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatrnent emerging from this analysis.
While successful technology development and transfer has the potential to impact positively as
well as negatively on the environment, in the case of Venezuela, through its support of
environmentally sound research projects (one of Venezuela's priority research areas) and through
-13 -



practices for laboratory safety and disposal of hazardous materials, the project is expected to have
a positive or neutral impact on environment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
n,a
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: n/a
n/a
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
n/a
5.5 W1hat mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
n/a
6. Social:
6. 1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The possibility exists that researchers who do not win awards in the beginning of a LIL project
would actively resist attempts to generalize its improvements to the system as a whole. By the
same token, ev.dence suggests that stakeholders in key institutions may adopt MSI-type
procedures early and widely appear on equal footing with this high-profile project.
Two other leaming issues can be examined in the social realm. First, the extent to which the MSI
produces new collaboration between Venezuelan and international scientists, through their higher
recognition under the MSI, as well as via international dissemination catalyzed by the participation
of high-level international scientists in the selection process. Second, increased numbers of
non-Venezuelan graduate students can be expected, via potential regional scholarships designed
to attract the best young brains in the region, and in general, due to the improved quality of work.
One measure of longer term success can be the extent to which students from OECD countries,
who traditionally choose Europe and North America for their training, would be attracted to
Venezuela.
Finally, the expected influence of the MSI may act as a type of social learning. This phenomenon
occurs when the introduction of fair and open competition for resources, merit-based awards and
recognition, and rational and efficient administration, creates an intolerance for the traditional, less
efficient means of awarding and administering research grants. The intolerance in turn creates
pressure for change, and eventually change itself. Thus, the poorer performing system is driven
out by a better performing one. This type of social learning has occurred, for instance, in Brazil,
and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico, under Bank-supported S&T projects. If successful, the
changes should stimulate scientists to return to or remain in Venezuela, reversing the current brain
drain.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
- 14 -



Consultations were carried out with the main stakeholders of the S&T sector, including Ministry
of Science and Technology, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning,
University Rectors, research groups, and representatives from industry. All stakeholders were
supportive of the initiative.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Poticy                                     A0pliCabilitY
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01             L Yes N No
Li Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                   EL Yes 3 No
l Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                      L Yes E No
CL Pest Management 0P 4.09)                                        l Yes N No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   LI Yes Z No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   [L Yes M No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              O Yes 3 No
Li Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                               U Yes Z No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)Yes   No
EL Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)          E Yes O No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with-applicable safeguard policies.
n/a
- 15 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of commitment and willingness to      N         After the completion of a 2-year LIL, an 8-year
scale up and follow-up on the project in             follow-on phase is planned to consolidate
the long term                                        positive experiences in the rest of S&T sector
Lack of commitment to continue funding     M         LIL supports and complements incentives for
over the long term                                   the improvement of research quality, introduced
by the Researchers Promotion Program. This
program has been sustained since 1990.
Inadequate society demand/absorption       M         Increased collaboration between advanced
capacity for new Ph.D.s and top level                research institutions and firms will result in
researchers                                          better transfer of knowledge and increased
employability of Ph.D. level researchers in
industries.
From Components to Outputs
Research groups might view the initiative  S         Centers and Nuclei of Scientific Excellence
as preferential treatment for a select few           must be integrated into the existing system in
from which they gain nothing                         such a way that they are seen as beneficial to the
whole system (e.g. sharing of scarce and costly
equipment)
Universities might view the initiative as a  S       Centers and Nuclei of Scientific Excellence must
top-down pressure, conflicting with the              maintain and support researchers' autonomy
institutional autonomy
The initiative could be viewed as          M         High quality teaching on undergraduate and
subtraction or deviation from teaching               postgraduate levels and high quality research
and other research priorities                        other than leading to international publications
must also be valued and rewarded
The process may be perceived as biased,    N         This potential problem should be minimized
collusive, or non-transparent. For                   through strong efforts to disseminate the
instance, regional inequalities can be               transparency and openness characteristics of the
exacerbated by an apparent accumulation              process
of resources in the metropolitan area
Fresh resources might not be used to fund  M         Mechanisms have to be designed and introduced
the initiative                                       to ensure that financial resources are
sustainable.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Overall Risk Rating: Modest
- 16 -



The proposed MSI project total cost, over a two-and-one-half year period, is US$15.0 million,
with US$5.0 million in Bank financing. The research budget for public universities in the
Boliviarian Republic of Venezuela was US$56.1 million in 1998 and US$55.3 million in 1999.
The proposed project represents approximately 13.5 percent of total S&T investment in
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, with Bank investment representing 4.5 percent of the research
budget per year.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
none
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A project implementation plan has been agreed upon with the Borrower. Prior to effectiveness,
the following conditions need to be met:
(i) The Ministry of Science and Technology and CONICIT established the Board of Directors,
the Program Committee, and the IMU;
(ii) Appointment of the Executive Director and Deputy Director for the IMU;
(iii) Operational Manual for the Millennium Science Initiative, issued by the Ministry of Science
and Technology and approved by the Bank;
(iv) Agreement with CONICIT regarding project implementation entered into;
(v) Implementation of Financial Management Action Plan;
(vi) Procurement plans for the first six months of the project;
(vii) Issuance of Regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, to Procurement Law 296.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(i) Mid-term review;
(ii) Biannual procurement audits;
(iii) Special provisions of NCB procedures;
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
El 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 17-



THE PROJECT WILL BE READY FOR IMPLEI9fENTATION UPON MEETING EFFECTIVENESS
CONDITIONS (SECTION G I)
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
DJ 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen           XaEi rE. Coll                          ardo Wallentin, Acting
Team Leader                       Seor Manager/Director              Country Manager/Director
- 18-



Annex I                                                                                   Page I of 2
Annex 1
Millennium Science Initiative Project - Project Design Summary
Hierarchy of Objectives         Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and    CriticalAssumptions
and Milestones             Evaluation
Sector-related CAS goals:           Sector indicators:
The development agenda of the       The cumulative effect of increased   *   Independent  *   Political stability
Venezuelan government is focused    human capital and knowledge         client survey
towards: "(a) enhancing sustainable  stocks brings Venezuela closer to  reports          *   Sound and stable
growth, (b) promoting social        parity with the world's more                             R&D policies
development, (c) modernizing the public  knowledge-based economies.  *  National, World
sector by strengthening public       Long-term indicators are:          Bank, IMF data
administration to improve governance  *   More commercially-viable
and increase the effectiveness of public  new products and processes
programs".                          *   Advances in public health,
nutrition, environment, etc.
Follow-on development objective:    Medium term indicators:         *   IMU data and     *   Society,
To revitalize Venezuela's National  *   Transparent quality             opinion surveys     incorporates local
Innovation System (widespread).          assessment procedures and  *   International        and foreign know-
incentives in all S&T sector   comparison and       how, and demands
*   More high quality Ph.D.        "benchmarking"       Ph.D.s and top
researchers                    of S&T               quality research
*   Increased employment of        performance
them, also in the private sector  *   Tracer studies of
*   Increased quantity and quality  employment
of scientific output, some has  patterns
direct implications for
industry
*   Increased exchange of
knowledge and mobility of
researchers
Specific project development objective:  Outcome / Impact indicators:  Project reports  (from objective to goal)
To demonstrate how to revitalize     *   More Ph.D. and post-docs are  (combined for all
Venezuela's science and technology      trained in Venezuela        indicators):         *   The grantees
(S&T) system by demonstrating and   *   Increase in number and      *   IMU data             perform at the level
stimulating adoption of transparent     quality of research outcomes   *   Grantee's         of internationally
quality assessment mechanisms and        in CEs and NERs                annual reports       recognized
efficient merit-based allocation    *   Surveyed scientists perceive    *   International    scientific standards
procedures.                              positive change and appreciate  comparisons of   *   Other public
transparent quality-assessment  S&T indicators      funding
mechanisms and merit-based   *   Program            mechanisms adopt
allocation procedures.         committee self-     the lessons learned
*   Increased national and          evaluation          from MSI
international scientific   *   Panel evaluation
collaboration                  reports
Output:                             *   Consolidated capacity for   *  Basic evaluation  From outputs to
A demonstration through a Millennium     S&T policy at MS&T             of the initiative   objective:
Science Initiative that high quality  *   3 centers and 8-12 nuclei of  as a whole       *   The Initiative is
research is possible in Venezuela, with  scientific excellence          carried out by       integrated in the
improved scientific performance:        consolidated by the end of the  external/            S&T system in.
*   Support to Ministry of S&T and a    project                         intemational         Venezuela
light MSI administration structure    *   Increased enrollment in   panel from       *   Client commitment
*   Grant Centers and Nuclei of          doctoral programs, more        scientific           to scale-up and
Scientific Excellence and promote   Ph.D. research performed in     community           follow-up on the
partnership in scientific excellence  the Venezuelan S&T centers   *   Mid-term          project in the long
in the Region                   *   Established more                review and ICR       term
international/regional research  *   IMU gathered
linkages                       data and
grantee's annual
reports



Annex I                                                                                       Page 2 of 2
Activities (project components and    Inputs (budget for each                                From components to
sub-components):                      component):                                            outputs:
1. Capacity building of the Ministry of   (US$ 1.0 Million)            *   Disbursement    *   Universities and
S&T and organization of the Venezuelan                                     reports              research institutes
Millennium Science Initiative:        *   Consolidation of MS&T and         (quarterly)          clearly benefit from
*   Technical support for Ministry of     the reorganization of                                  the Initiative
S&T                                   CONICIT                      *   Supervision
*   Board of Directors                *   S&T policies enacted             missions (bi-     *   Fresh resources are
*   Program Committee                 *   Budget line defined              annually)             used to fund the
*   Implementation and Management     *   BD, PC and NMU established                             Initiative
Unit                              *   Proposal, based on LIL
*   Scale-up studies                      experiences, for the whole
Science and Technology
2. Competitive Fund for Scientific        system in Venezuela
Excellence:
2A. Selection and support of centers and   (US$ 12.0 Million)
nuclei of scientific excellence:
Selection:                            *   Guidelines to call for
*   Development and publication of the    proposals developed and
guidelines to call for proposals      published
*   Pre-selection and selection of    *   Evaluation teams active
proposals by the Program          *   Proposals evaluated
Committee, assisted by international  *   Modern scientific equipment
peers, and according to the           purchased
developed criteria                *   Fellowships for Ph.D. and
post-doctoral students to
Support of research, human resources      conduct research in
formation and outreach activities         Venezuela's S&T centers of
*   Expansion of doctoral programs in     excellence
Venezuela's S&T centers of        *   Outreach programs
excellence                            established
*   Outreach activities'
(US$ 1.5 Million)
2B. Establishment of a network for the
promotion of scientific excellence:  .*   Fellowships for researchers
*   Research visits to establish formal   and students distributed
and informal connections to top
centers and institutions
*   Coordination of research activities
*   Programs for exchange of
researchers and graduate students
*   Regional doctoral courses
*   Dissemination of results and lessons
learned
Each Center of Excellence must reach out to and interact with other entities, be they in industry, or in the education and social
sectors.



Annex 2                                                             Pcge I of 3
Annex 2
Millennium Science Initiative in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
Detailed Project Description
The project will have two components:
(A) Capacity building: Capacity for Change and Management Structure for Millennium
Science Initiative "Ministry, CONICIT and the MSI Directorate" and
(B) Competitive Fund for Scientific Excellence:
B 1. Centers and Nuclei of Scientific Excellence
B2. Network for the promotion of Scientific Excellence
Project Component A: Capacity building: Ministry, CONICIT and the MSI Directorate -
US$ 1.0 million (total cost of component)
This component includes the following: (i) capacity building for the new Ministry of Science
and Technology, with technical support to set up national S&T policies, (ii) establishment and
operations of Board of Directors, Program Committee and Implementation and Management
Unit; (iii) technical assistance for selection of CE and NER; (iv) development of a proposal to
scale-up and institutionalize the project; and (v) Monitoring and Evaluation studies. Under this
component, the program would finance studies, publications, remuneration of Program
Committee and IMU's personnel, and administrative costs.
Capacity buildingfor the new Ministry of Science and Technology will provide technical support
for (i) establishment of coherent policies in the national science and technology sector, (ii)
consolidation of a National Innovation System (NIS), (iii) introduction of incentives for the
formation of the critical mass of high quality researchers, and support to research and
development in priority technological areas (food production, sustainable development, new
materials and processes, and communication and information technology), and (iv)
modernization of the Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y Tecnol6gicas
(CONICIT) and its funding instruments and strategies.
The Board of Directors would consist of highly qualified experts interested in the advancement
of science and technology from the scientific community, academia, the business world, and/or
public life. The Board would renew at least a third of its membership every five years. Term of
office is five years for initial members, and two years for new members, renewable for two-year
periods. The function of this high level board is to oversee the project and the implementation of
the programmatic activities selected by the program committee. The Chairman of the Board of
Directors is the Minister of Science and Technology.
The Program Committee will be established by a Ministerial order and will consist of six experts
of international stature and representative of Venezuelan R&D priority fields. The Committee
members would be subject to no objection to the Bank. One committee member would be
selected as its chair. The function of this committee is to select from among the proposals
submitted in response to widely distributed and transparent calls-for-proposals. In this process,
the committee would use inputs from expert international peer reviewers.



Annex 2                                                                     Page 2 of 3
The Implementation and Management Unit would be headed by an Executive Director, with a
Deputy Director and a staff consisting of an Auditor, an Executive Sectary, and other individuals
as necessary. The IMN    would perform all necessary support activities, including dissemination
of calls-for-proposals, receiving the resulting submissions, submitting these to the program
conimittee for selection of peer reviewers, and assisting in the notification and implementation of
awards.
Project Component B: Competitive Fund for Scientific Excellence
US$ 13.5 million (total cost of component)
Project Sub-component B1: Centers and Nuclei of Scientific Excellence
US$ 12.0 million (total cost of sub-component)
This sub-component consists of the funding of research projects at 3 Centers of Excellence (CE)
and 8-12 Nuclei for Excellent Research (NER). The CEs and NERs would carry out the
following activities: (i) scientific research (ii) expansion doctoral and post-doctoral training
programs; and (iii) networking, outreach2; and special activities to promote scientific excellence.
Under this component, the program would finance high-level scientific equipment, infrastructure
rehabilitation (including laboratories), fellowships for doctoral and post-doctoral students, and
publications.
The research proposals will be subject to pre-selection and selection by the Program Committee,
assisted by international peers, and according to the developed criteria. The resources requested
in each application should be appropriate for achieving its goals, and may include state-of-the-art
scientific equipment and its maintenance, chemicals and supplies, graduate student and
postdoctoral fellowships under the control of the investigators, funds for national and
international travel and cooperation, and other necessary funds. The proposals should be
analyzed on the basis. of their scientific excellence and the ability and track records of the
principal and co-investigators. In accordance with standard international practice, the funding for
all these components should be considered in the review process, so that the investigators do not
have to apply to different sources of funds for the different elements of the proposal. The criteria
for selection of the applications for an institute orcenter should include:
*  The number of major investigators. At least 3 and preferably more should be
involved
*  The qualifications of the principal and co-investigators
*  The excellence of the proposed research
*  The utilization and training of graduate students and post-doctoral fellows
In addition, at least one of the following criteria should be considered:
*  Proposed regional outreach activities
*  Relation to Venezuela's priority R&D fields
*  Relation to other societal needs, such as health or utilization of natural resources
*  Connection to industry and other productive sectors
2 Each CE must reach out to and interact with other entities, be they in industry, or in the education and social sectors.



Annex 2                                                               Page 3 of 3
Some specifics for the CE and NER are as follows:
Centers of Excellence - CE (3), composed of Venezuelan scientists of international stature
performing high quality research work in one or more of the Venezuela's priority research fields.
One scientist from each center would be that center's head. The resources made available for the
centers would be commensurate with the research to be performed (as described in the selected
grant proposals) and with levels received by analogous groups internationally. These centers are
expected to be able to compete scientifically in high level international arena. Requests for short
preliminary proposals for these centers would be generated by the Program Committee and
would spell out transparent rules of open competition for the available resources. The range,
size, and parameters chosen for these available resources would be described in the request-for-
proposals. The Program Committee would prepare a short list of proposals; the principal
investigators would be invited to submit full (significantly more detailed) proposals. The full
proposals would each be reviewed by at least three international peer reviewers, who are to be
selected by the Program Committee. The Program Committee would then select awardees on the
basis of these reviewers' recommendations. Centers of Excellence would be supported for five-
year renewable periods, subject to satisfactory performance.
Nuclei for Excellent Research - NER (8-12), each comprised of young promising scientists with
the potential to evolve into researchers of the stature of those supported under the centers of
excellence grants. The corresponding requests-for-proposals would likewise be generated by the
Program Conmmittee (through a similar process), and evaluated under sirnilar procedures. The
amount of resources for research nuclei would be smaller, the resource parameters narrower, and
the selection criteria less extensive than those for the CE. Nonetheless, the merit of the proposals
and the quality of the proponents would be of central importance, just as it would be for the CE.
The NER would be supported for one, non-renewable three year period.
Project Sub-component B2: Network for the Promotion of Scientific Excellence
US$ 1.5 million (total cost of sub-component)
Networking activities will include: (i) research visits to establish formal and informal
connections to high level international institutions; (ii) coordination of appropriate Initiative-
wide activities with Directors of CEs, NERs, and principal investigators; (iii) programs for
exchange of researchers, post-graduate, and graduate students; (iv) design and delivery of
international advanced courses; and (v) dissemination of lessons learned. Under this component,
the program would finance remuneration for researchers, fellowships for doctoral and post-
doctoral students, travel expenditures, and publications.






Annex 3                                                              Page I of 5
Annex 3
Assumptions and Expected Benefits
The ability of a society to produce, select, adapt, and commercialize knowledge is critical for
sustained economic growth and improved quality of life. In its most basic form, a Millennium
Science Initiative Project is a competitive fund for research support with a light administrative
structure. Aside from increased scientific outputs such as training opportunities and integration
with the international scientific community, three main benefits are expected from the initiative:
(i) contributing to stem "brain drain"; (ii) forging cultures of quality; and (iii) pressuring for
transparency and merit-based allocation procedures. The first pilot MSI project for Chile was
approved by the World Bank on April 30, 1999.
Background and Assumptions
1.    Knowledge is a critical determinant of economic growth and standard of living. A
strong consensus, reflected in recent policy statements from the OECD, the World Bank, and
others, is emerging: knowledge is the most important factor in economic development. The
OECD concluded that "underlying long-term growth rates in OECD economies depend on
maintaining and expanding the knowledge base."3  The World Bank's 1998/99 World
Development Report states that "Today's most technologically advanced economies are truly
knowledge-based... creating millions of knowledge-related jobs in an array of disciplines that
have emerged overnight," and "the need for developing countries to increase their capacity to use
knowledge cannot be overstated." Improving this capacity is becoming a pre-requisite for
sustained economic growth and improved quality of life. World Bank senior management is
committed to working with clients who are developing strategies to narrow knowledge gaps with
the advanced countries.
2.    Social Rates of Return to Innovations and R&D. Mansfield, 1977; Griliches and
Lichtenburg, 1984; Bernstein and Nadiri, 1998 have concluded that the social rates of return to
innovations and to R&D in developed countries are high (on average over 20%, and for some
industries above 70%). Commercially viable innovations tend to lower the cost of production,
leading to lower prices (consumer surplus) and/or resource savings which increase output
elsewhere in the economy. In addition, close links have been established between academic
research and the development of new products and processes (Nelson, 1986; Jaffe, 1989;
Mansfield, 1991). In several industries, a substantial proportion of new products and processes
(10%-20%) could not have been developed (or, not without substantial delay) in absence of
academic research that had been carried out within the previous two decades. Further work by
Francis Narin in 1997 found that 73% of papers cited in US industry patents were from publicly-
funded research conducted either at universities or public research institutions.
3.    Knowledge is transformed into goods and services through a country's National
Innovation System. Knowledge by itself does not transform economies. Its -benefits appear
when it is employed within a complex system of institutions and practices known as a National
Innovation System (NIS). An NIS is a web of: (i) knowledge producing organizations in the
education and training system (such as universities and research institutes);
3OECD 1998, "Technology, Productivity, and Job Creation: Best Policy Practices." P.4.



Annex 3                                                                            Page 2 of 5
(ii) the macroeconomic and regulatory framework, including trade policies that affect technology
diffusion; (iii) communications infrastructures; and (iv) selected other factors, such as access to
the global knowledge base or certain market conditions that favor innovations. A NIS is
effective to the extent that these elements are developed and work in harmony.
4.     Cutting-edge scientific research is an essential part of an effective NIS.  New
knowledge drives innovation. In most cases,4 there are several reasons why at least some of a
country's researchers should be at the forefront of their disciplincs. First, even in cases where
innovation policy is primarily concerned with adaptation rather than production of knowledge,
the intellectual rigor required usually results from "pursuing the leader" at the forefront of
discipline. Second, since so much of scientific knowledge creation involves the "free exchange"
of ideas among colleagues worldwide [all of whom are seeking recognition and prestige],
countries integrate best and benefit most when they have knowledge to offer. For countries of a
basic level of scientific development, it is not impossible to be an absolute follower and taker
from the world's knowledge base-but neither is it efficient or a sustainable. In the long-term,
countries that wish to use knowledge must also get involved in its production. Third, university-
based research-relatively small compared with other university activities-has a
disproportionately large effect that energizes both educational and innovation systems.
5.     University  research  and the NIS.   Mansfield (1993) found that most important
contributions to industrial innovation came from university research done at the departments that
were world-leaders in their domain.   This same study found  geographical proximity of
university-based research to be another important factor contributing to industrial innovations.
Among the study's findings were that, "there are many advantages to firms working with, and
keeping abreast of, developments at local universities." Furthermore, students were found to
play an important role as transfer agents: studies of the US NSF's Industry/University
Cooperative Research Program found better personnel recruitment to be one of the principal
benefits of their participation in the program. Both Mansfield (1993) and Peters and Fusfeld
(1982) found students to be a strong transfer mechanism in innovation; citations in patent
applications of the work of former mentors by students who had taken jobs in private research
labs were well above the general average of citations.
6.     Trained human brains are the most effective knowledge transfer and adaptation
mechanism. Innovation is not a linear process of "science push" leading to applications. The
idiosyncratic nature of scientific and technological advance is best promoted by individuals who
are comprehensively trained in their disciplines. Proper incentive systems are necessary, and
discrete actions such as tech transfer via trade in goods also contribute. But, in the long run, the
expertise gained through training is the decisive factor in the economic impact of technology
transfer.
4 Depending on stage of development. Among the most impoverished countries, there a certainly more pressing priorities than
developing research excellence. Other countries must decide very selectively how they will spend their limited resources on
national knowledge strategies. These countries may be too poor to be effective participants in the global knowledge system.
Above a certain level of economic development [that typically found in most Latin American countries, for instance], it becomes
essential to take part in global knowledge production and use.



Annex 3                                                                 Page 3 of 5
7.    Science and technology are intertwined. There is still much truth in the common view
that the most important technological breakthroughs occurred because scientists were
investigating nature-not because they were looking for applications of their research [e.g.,
Faraday's and Maxwell's work was pure science, but it facilitated Marconi's and other's work on
wireless communication]. However, because it is increasingly true that new technologies give
rise to new sciences and disciplines [e.g., chemical engineering], it is most accurate to view
science and technology as intertwined. According to Richard Nelson5, this intertwining is the
principal reason why technology is advanced through the work of men and women who have
university training in science and engineering. It is also "the principal reason why, in many
fields, university research is an important contributor to technological advance, and universities
as well as corporate labs are essential parts of the innovation system. Thus the problems that
originate in industry are not explored only by industrial scientists. They feed into, and stimulate,
the entire scientific community."
8.    Good science is international. Nature does not respect political boundaries. In response,
science has evolved as an international endeavor. Those who work at the forefront of their
disciplines seek to interact and collaborate with their peers regardless of where they are.
Conversely, researchers need access to global interchange of knowledge to avoid obsolescence
and insularity.
9.    Anonymous peer review and competitive funding facilitate quality and productivity
in science and technology. Allocation practices that rely on anonymous review by qualified
scientific peers and open, transparent, merit-based competition for resources are nearly
universally acknowledged as the most effective means of distributing research resources. In such
systems, scientific recognition is the foundation upon which careers are built, and access to
resources is the means to recognition. This creates
strong incentives for researchers to maximize their productivity, by adding graduate students and
spending their budgets wisely. As a result, in such systems the most- highly selected researchers
tend to be the most efficient and productive.
The World Bank's Millennium Science Initiative - MSI
10.   The guiding principles for the Millennium Science Initiative are as follows: (i) the
Centers of Excellence / Nuclei for Excellent Research concept has Bank support as an integral
part of policies that can assist countries to reach the "knowledge society" (WDR 1998); (ii) the
Centers of Excellence will be designed to develop human capital, to provide vibrant research
environments where state-of-the-art scientific research can be performed, be linked to the private
sector in order to assist countries in their development process, and be part of an international
network; (iii) the Bank will be responsive to requests from individual countries for assistance to
develop concrete actions in the area of Centers of Excellence. Such actions could eventually call
for Bank financial assistance in the form of LILs, SILs, amendments to ongoing projects, etc.;
(iv) the Banks response to requests for assistance from governments in further developing the
Centers of Excellence concept would be flexible, recognizing differences in national
circumstances, and hence not prescribe a particular modus-operandi. In some cases, for example,
support of Centers of Excellence would be "institutionalized" (Princeton Model) in other cases
Centers of Excellence could be networks of excellent research teams (Hughes Model);
R.Nelson, National Innovation Systems: A Comparative Analysis, New York: Oxford University Press, 1993. P.7.



Annex 3                                                                     Page 4 of 5
(v) the Bank would suggest the names of specific international experts who could participate in
the process of further developing the Centers of Excellence concept, tailored to meet national
needs and priorities. The Bank would assist countries in establishing national/international
advisory panels as appropriate, however, there would be no international advisory superstructure;
and (vi) the Bank would actively seek the participation of private foundations and international
organizations, and trust funds in further developing an international network of Centers of
Excellence.
While the MSI will be adapted to the particular needs of the individual client countries that
participate, all initiatives will share some basic common characteristics:
11.   Support for top-quality science through a competitive fund.  Many developing
countries get low returns from their R&D investments because, inter alia, they do not follow best
practice in selection, allocation, and implementation procedures. The Millennium Science
Initiative seeks to test the extent to which higher returns can be induced through the introduction
of state-of-the-art selection and funding criteria.
12.   Involvement of the international community in the selection process.  All MSI-
funded activities will be vetted through selection processes that involve world-class international
peers. Where appropriate, some high qualified scientists will provide general direction and
oversight, and help facilitate networking and exchange.
13.   Increased training opportunities. In countries where the MSI will operate, there is
typically found a dearth of quality graduate training opportunities for bright young minds;
training systems often lack quality and dynamism, taking a long time to produce a few graduates.
All research funded through the MSI be directly connected to increase provision of training
opportunities for graduate students; In connection with their research-and as a requirement for
selection--investigators will be expected to train and advise the maximum feasible number of
graduate students.
14.   Global and regional connections to other researchers. The selection process itself will
help disseminate the activities of the MSI host countries abroad. The research projects will
similarly provide opportunities for international collaborations through long-term and visiting
professorships, post-doctoral and doctoral positions. In addition, each funded group will
cooperate with the overall Program Committee on a series of targeted activities which integrate
with national and international partners.
Expected Benefits
Aside from increased scientific outputs such as training opportunities and integration with the
international scientific community, three main benefits are expected from the initiative:
15. Contributing to stem "brain drain". In the U.S. 40% of university faculty are, foreign
born, and this percentage is rising. Brain drain is not new, but it is predictable: the most talented
individuals will get their education and pursue their careers wherever they find the best
opportunities to do quality work and secure funding. Because geographic isolation is still
extremely detrimental to research careers, the best will not stay in their countries unless a critical
mass of quality researchers appears. The MSI would contribute toward creating this by
providing career opportunity to the most qualified national scientists and researchers and by
attracting top-quality international talent.



Annex 3                                                                      Page 5 of 5
Expected Benefits
Aside from increased scientific outputs such as training opportunities and integration with the
international scientific commnunity, three main benefits are expected from the initiative:
15.   Contributing to stem "brain drain". In the U.S. 40% of university faculty are foreign
born, and this percentage is rising. Brain drain is not new, but it is predictable: the most talented
individuals will get their education and pursue their careers wherever they find the best
opportunities to do quality work and secure funding. Because geographic isolation is still
extremely detrimental to research careers, the best will not stay in their countries unless a critical
mass of quality researchers appears.  The MSI would contribute toward creating this by
providing career opportunity to the most qualified national scientists and researchers and by
attracting top-quality international talent.
16.   Forging cultures of quality. In under-performing research systems, it is common to find
an aversion to the difficult choices necessitated by true competition for resources. Typically,
anyone with reasonable scientific credentials can "survive", when survival means bad
infrastructure, obsolete equipment, and inadequate professional autonomy.   By contrast,
advanced scientific countries will usually have flagship funding agencies in which only the top
researchers get considered for funding, but those who are funded are given the resources and
freedom to do their best work. As countries attempt to transition from one system toward the
other, researchers must become accustomed to abiding by decisions [of qualified peers] that
nourish the best scientists and starve the inadequate among them. Resistance to this change is
common, but perseverance for a sustained period (10 years or more) typically results in research
community that is healthier and much more dynamic.
17.   Pressuring for transparency and merit-based allocation procedures.  This is a
corollary to the social learning process that leads to a culture of quality. The introduction of
allocation procedures that favor the most qualified scientists tends to create a vocal group that
seek to maintain fair, open processes. This group wants the opportunity to compete and be
rewarded according to their objectively-evaluated merits. The sense of resignation to an unfair
status quo can be overcome through this type targeted intervention.



.4nnex 4                                                                 PageI of I
Annex 4
Millennium Science Initiative Project in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                            Local        Foreign     Total
------------------US $ million--------------------
1. Management Structure for the Millennium Science          0.5000        0.5000  1.0000
Initiative
a) Technical support for the new Ministry for S&T           0.1000         0.1000  0.2000
b) Board of Directors                                       0.0125         0.0125  0.0250
c) Program Committee                                        0.0500         0.0500  0.1000
d) Peer Reviewers                                           0.0150         0.0150  0.0300
e) Implementation and Management Support Unit               0.2350         0.2350  0.4700
f) Studies: scale-up, M&E, surveys, baseline and tracer     0.0875         0.0875  0.1750
studies
2. Competitive Fund for Scientific Excellence               8.5250         3.4750  12.0000
a) Centers of Excellence                                    6.4000         2.6000 9.0000
b) Nuclei for Excellent Research                            2.1250         0.8750 3.0000
3. Network for the Promotion of Scientific Excellence       0.7500         0.7500  1.5000
a) Visits to establish the network                          0.0250         0.0250  0.0500
b) Exchange programs for researchers, post-docs, and        0.5500         0.5500  1.1000
graduate students
c) International advanced courses                           0.1500         0.1500  0.3000
d) Dissemination of lessons learnt                          0.0250         0.0250  0.0500
Total Baseline Cost                                        9.7750         4.7250   14.5000
Physical Contingencies                                   0.1500         0.1500  0.3000
Price Contingencies                                      0.0750          0.0750 0.1500
Front End Fee                                              0.0000         0.0500  0.0500
Total Project Cost                                         10.0000         5.0000  15.0000



Annex 5                                                             Page ] of 2
Annex 5
Economic Analysis and Related Issues
Background: Social Rates of Return to Innovations and R&D. A number of studies
(Mansfield, 1977; Griliches and Lichtenburg, 1984; Bernstein and Nadiri, 1998) have concluded
that the social rates of return to innovations and to R&D in developed countries are high (on
average over 20%, and for some industries above 70%). Commercially viable innovations tend
to lower the cost of production, leading to lower prices (consumer surplus) and/or resource
savings which increase output elsewhere in the economy. In addition, close links have been
established between academic research and the development of new products and processes
(Nelson, 1986; Jaffe, 1989; Mansfield, 1991). In several industries, a substantial proportion of
new products and processes (10%-20%) could not have been developed (or, not without
substantial delay) in absence of academic research that had been carried out within the previous
two decades. Further work by Francis Narin in 1997 found that 73% of papers cited in US
industry patents were from publicly-funded research conducted either at universities or public
research institutions.
Perhaps most relevant to this project, Mansfield (1993) found that most important contributions
to industrial innovation came from university research done at the departments that were world-
leaders in their domain. This same study found geographical proximity of university-based
research to be another important factor contributing to industrial innovations. Among the study's
findings were that, "there are many advantages to firms working with, and keeping abreast of,
developments at local universities." Furthermore, students were found to play an important
role as transfer agents: studies of the US NSF's Industry/University Cooperative Research
Program found better personnel recruitment to be one of the principal benefits of their
participation in the program. Both Mansfield (1993) and Peters and Fusfeld (1982) found
students to be a strong transfer mechanism in innovation: citations in patent applications of the
work of former mentors by students who had taken jobs in private research labs were well above
the general average of citations.
These findings argue very strongly for investments in improving the quality of the best
researchers in the Venezuela's universities and research institutes, and of prioritizing human
resources training for the sake of technology transfer. However, some important caveats must be
considered: (a) the results of academic research are utilized in many places, and appear in the
economic sphere two or three steps removed from where they were created (with an average time
interval of seven years, which may extend up to two decades in some cases); (b) industries in
developing countries may lack private R&D facilities, may produce very few innovations
(concentrating on adaptations instead), may have weak design capacity, and low or negligent
private investment in R&D, and; (c) the economic context in developing countries may be
characterized by distorted prices and markets, lack of competition, and irrational or short-sighted
legal and regulatory frameworks.
Even without these conditions, precise measurement of the returns to R&D is hampered by at
least two important conceptual constraints: (a) the long time between the conduct of research
and the appearance of results, and (b) the difficulty in valuation of factors such as the
contributions of strong basic science education in secondary and at the undergraduate level, or
mature communications information and communications infrastructures.



Annex 5                                                                Page 2 of 2
For these reasons, and consistent with the LIL guidelines, no full-scale formal cost-benefit
analysis was conducted during preparation. Under the project itself (and under the follow-on
activities), information will be collected and analysis will be performed principally on efficiency
and productivity gains in research and improvements to the stock of highly-trained human
capital.  This will be in preparation for an eventual formal cost-benefit analysis, in the
appropriate time frame.
The Short-term Goal: Measuring Cost-effectiveness and Private Returns to Researchers.
The Program Committee and the Implementation and Management Unit (PC and IMU) would
conduct or oversee the collection of data on the efficiency and productivity of MSI-funded
researchers and research. This would be compared with baseline data for the sector as a whole.
A value would be computed for both the direct saving under the MSI, and for any other saving
induced by the MSI's influence on the rest of the Venezuelan system. Efficiency savings are
expected to come from: (i) focusing resources on the best researchers - those of proven merit
and record of past performance - as identified through the high-level selection process; (ii)
introducing a "light model of administration" which decreases the bureaucratic burden on
investigators; and (iii) providing sufficient resources to allow investigators to staff their labs and
purchase the necessary equipment needed to work on the most relevant research problems.
Private returns to those trained in connection with MSI-funded research would give an important
initial indication of the potential market value of increased investment and improved quality of
research. Again, time horizons are long, but detailed data will be collected on: (i) collaborations
(especially if they are remunerative) by MSI researchers with private firms; (ii) job offers,
salaries, nature of (public or private) and time-to-first employment for all graduate students and
post-doctoral fellows connect to the MSI (as well as for grad students and post-docs in the
Venezuela as a whole); and (iii) increases in training opportunities, and changes in the profile
(especially the quality) of students selecting careers in research. Clearly, several independent
variables other than the project will influence these factors. Nonetheless, carefully conducted
analysis should yield insight on whether the MSI is providing human resources training that is
valuable in the labor market and the economy. Because of the present dearth of Ph.D.s, the
private return to those trained under the project will be monitored versus that of those trained
abroad, to gauge the perceived value of the training. Likewise, the returns will be tracked over
time to see if they diminish as the project adds additional highly-trained individuals.
The Long-term Goal: Measuring the Specific Impact on the Venezuelan Economy. Over the
very long term (ten years or more) the goal is to measure the direct effect of the activities and
outputs of the project on the Venezuelan economy.  Increased productivity and output in the
economy may result from greater success in commercialization of fundamental and applied
research. This is likely to result from: (a) increased absolute numbers of researchers working in
private firms; (b) better skills of S&T researchers (both in firms and the public sector); and (c) a
greater focus of R&D on economically relevant areas. The impact in the economy could appear
as greater output from existing firms, the creation of new, technologically-oriented firms, a shift
toward higher quality products, and/or improved socioeconomic performance, (improvements in
health, environments, etc.).
Once again, one should not expect drastic changes in the economy because: (i) the investment is
very small compared to the size of the economy; (ii) the project encourages private sector
cooperation, but does not mandate it; (iii) the purported economic relevance of the research is
only one criterion for selection; and (iv) several independent variables (e.g., worsening regional
macroeconomic conditions) could mitigate or nullify the positive impact of the project.



.4AInex 6                                                             Page I of 8
Annex 6
Millennium Science Initiative Project in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
General. Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
'Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Guidelines).
Procurement methods. The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values
for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
A. Competitive Fund for Scientific Excellence - to support CEs and NERs (The Fund)
The Fund will award grants for research, human resource formation and outreach activities. The
total amount of grants is estimated at US$12.0 million. Principal Investigators (PI) at universities
and non-university centers will apply for these grants. Applications will include a program of
activities, general services and technical assistance through individual consultants or single
source selections whenever only one individual or firm is qualified or has experience of
exceptional worth for the assignment [Clause 5.1 (c) and 3.9 (d) of the Guidelines]. Other
contracting of consultants will follow Quality Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) or Consultant's
Qualifications procedures (CQ). The terms of the grants will be established in the Grant
Agreements and in accordance wvith the Operational Manual. Thresholds for procurement
methods, including goods and works for subprojects, are established in Annex 6 Table B.
B. Other Components
Any procurement of goods and contracting of consultants for the other components of the project
will be carried out according to Bank Guidelines and the procedures outlined below. The
aggregated amounts indicated below do not include amounts assigned to the Fund.
Civil Works: The Project does not foresee anv procurement of civil works with Bank financing
other than those contemplated by the CEs and NERs for carrying out rehabilitation / construction
of research facilities.
Goods: The Project does not foresee any procurement for goods above US$50,000. In case of
procurement above US$50,000, NCB procedures shall be applied, and special provisions for
NCB will be stated in the Loan Agreement.
Goods: Goods estirmated to cost up to US$50,000 shall be procured using National Shopping
procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$150,000.
Consultant Services: Consultant's services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
published by the Bank in January 1997. revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Consultants Guidelines).



Annex 6                                                              Page 2 of 8
Firms, regardless of the contract cost, may be contracted under Quality-and-Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) procedures, except as indicated below. Other services to be contracted by the
IMU, such as surveys, background studies, study-tours, technical assistance, audits, estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 may be selected based on Consultant's Qualifications.
Individual's specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected
by comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1,000,000, and single source selection whenever only one individual or firm is qualified or
has experience of exceptional worth for the assignment (Clause 3.9 (d) of the Consultant
Guidelines).
Operational Costs: Sundry items, office rental and utilities would be financed and procured
using the MST administrative procedures, which were reviewed and found acceptable to the
Bank.
Advertising: A General Procurement Notice for procurement of consultant services is scheduled
to be published in the United Nations Development Business paper, by July 1, 2000. The Notice
will be updated annually for outstanding consultant services.
Prior Review Thresholds: In accordance with the institutional learning expectations for this
LIL, prior review by the Bank would include (i) procurement arrangements to be in accordance
with Appendix 1, Paragraph 2 of the Bank Guidelines; (ii) the first two NCB contracts for goods
and works; (iii) the first two Shopping contracts for goods and small works. The balance of
works and goods would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank and procurement audits, and
(iv) for consultants, the Bank would review all terms of reference, as well as contracts over
US$35,000.00 for individuals, US$100,000.00 for firms, any amendment of contracts resulting
in the increase of the contract value beyond the review limits set in above and all single source
selection if needed. To facilitate this process, the IMU would submit to the Bank at the beginning
of each semester, a plan for the hiring of consultants with their terms of reference and estimated
cost, as part of the Biannual Operating Plan. At the end of each trimester, CE and NER will
submit to the IMU a report of expenditures and the Bank supervision missions will carry out an
assessment of the procurement processes described above. Biannual procurement audits will be
carried out by independent auditors, as described in the next paragraph, and submitted to the
Bank during the three months following the audit to assure the required controls. The PIs and the
IMU should keep records of all procurement actions executed to allow the Bank to carry out its
post-reviews and audits. They should also submit to the Bank every six months a list of all
contracts signed indicating the name of the contracted firm, the amount and the objective of the
contract. Prior review of approximately 30% of the loan is expected under these arrangements.
Although the level of prior review would be relatively low, this would be compensated for in
several ways: (i) every six months, external auditors, contracted by MST under the loan, would
conduct performance audits covering: technical, environmental, managerial and procurement
aspects on a sample of subprojects satisfactory to the Bank as part of the ex-post evaluation of
subprojects; (ii) audit of procurement aspects would include physical audits and procurement
procedures used, so that the Bank can judge whether procurement implementation is satisfactory;



Annex 6                                                             Page 3 of 8
(iii) the project information and monitoring system would be used to compare costs, of similar
subprojects in order to detect possible discrepancies which might indicate procurement problems
and the need for further analysis; accuracy of the data in the project information system will be
checked through the audits and (iv) Bank supervision missions will conduct random reviews,
including frequent field visits and reviews of procurement documentation. Additionally, the
systemic review of the two first contracts of each type each year would help monitor quality and
consistency in the application of Bank Guidelines and procurement procedures agreed for the
project.
In addition to this prior review of individual procurement actions, the plan and budget for the
IMU Operating Costs will be review and approved by the Bank. Efforts would be made for a
procurement specialist/procurement consultant to be part of the supervision missions.
Procurement Responsibility
The project implementation will require procurement of a limited quantity of goods (about 1.5%
of the project total cost), but significant technical assistance services for studies and other
consultant assignments. MST's project implementation and management unit (IMIU) will be
responsible for the overall project procurement activity, including compliance with procedures
and timetables agreed with the Bank. The IMU will have the capability to carry out the project
procurement. Its manager, a lawyer from the MST, will establish a procurement team of two
staff. One has already been hired and is a qualified operational officer, who successfully
managed similar procurement activity under the recently completed Bank financed project, the
Student Loan Reform Project, Loan 3494-VE. During the project's appraisal mission, this officer
was involved in all of the project's procurement aspects and has since then, been actively
preparing the procurement plan and the procurement chapter of the Operations Manual. The
second member of the team will be recruited soon, under TORs acceptable to the Bank.
The team was in place prior to the Loan negotiations. The team with assistance of consultants for
procurement, if required, will prepare working instructions closely reflecting Bank procedures
and outlining all aspects of procurement under the project. The working instructions are an
integral part of the project's Operational Manual, which is under preparation. The Project
Operational Manual is to be finalized and adopted prior to the Project's effectiveness and a draft
will be required for the workshop of the project that is scheduled before effectiveness. The OM
would be updated by the MST to include specific operating and control mechanisms agreed
under the financial and physical monitoring system (FMS).
Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement. An assessment of the
capacity of the MST to implement procurement actions for the project has been carried out and
was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on May 2, 2000. There has been no
Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for the Venezuela. A key aspect for defining
the level of prior review has been the procurement capacity assessment of the IMU. The
assessment involved officials from MST completing data collection questionnaires about laws
and regulations. With regard to the IMU, since the unit's staffing is yet to be completed and its
procurement team yet to be organized, the Bank mission worked with the IADB unit's manager
(CONICIT) and the procurement staff hired recently by the MST, collecting data, analyzing
procurement performance under previous IADB Loan and reviewing how the IMU procurement
will be organized.



Annex 6                                                              Page 4 of 8
Based on the assessment, and taking into account that: i) the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela's
new procurement Law 296 does not include an Article stipulating that the procurement policies
and procedures of the international financiers apply to their respective projects, ii) the MST lack
of experience in World Bank projects, due to its recent creation and iii) the number of special
provisions that need to be reflected in the regulations and have been stipulated in the Loan
Agreement applicable to NCB, the project's procurement risk rating assessment is high. The
special provisions are as per Guidelines: i) registration as a condition of submission of bids; ii)
the use of two envelopes; iii) submission periods in NCB; iv) requests by bidders for
confidentiality of parts of bids; v) the publication of cost estimates; vi) the use of cost estimates
for the disqualification of bids; vii) declaring a bid null because two or more bids were not
received, viii) fragmentation of the subject of procurement, ix) and bid evaluation. Issuance of
regulations satisfactory to the Bank will take place prior to loan effectiveness. A detailed Action
Plan was presented to the MST. Agreement on this Action Plan was reached during negotiations.
Procurement Plan
Key instruments for carrying out the procurement by the IMU were completed, during the
project appraisal mission. They involve a detailed (i) procurement plan for goods and a
consultant plan and process scheduling for the project and (ii) guidelines for the Project
Operational Manual, including procurement process. The procurement plan, satisfactory to 'the
Bank, for the first six months of implementation of the project (not including the Fund) should
be submitted by effectiveness. Thereafter, biannual procurement plans will be submitted. The
IMU shall create the procurement plan by consolidating the plans from the CEs and NERs. The
plan shall specify the aggregate amounts for each type of expenditure (equipment, reagents,
fellowships, etc.), procurement procedures (national competitive bidding and local shopping) and
process scheduling used for acquisition of goods and applicable procedures, selection criteria,
and so forth for services during a given six-month period. The plan includes i) a list of contracts
completed, under execution, under procurement, to be procured in the upcoming calendar
semester; ii) costs of completed and under execution contracts, estimated costs for upcoming
contracts; iii) schedule of bidding; and iv) particular methods of procurement of goods or
selection of consultants. Standard Documents for national procurement and contracting of
consultants will be developed by the IMU for the use of PIs (grant recipients) and approved by
the Bank before the first request for proposals. Participating CEs and NERs will follow
procurement procedures detailed in an Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which is to
be completed before the awarding of the first grant. The Manual also details reporting and
auditing requirements to ensure proper use of resources and coordination with the IMU. In cases
where justification may be required, the IMU will liaison with the CE or NER to assure
compliance with procedures. In general, the IMU will oversee procurement and notify the Bank
of any situations warranting attention. A procurement planning tool and information systems as
well as assignment of procurement personnel are foreseen as part of a Financial Management
Action Plan. A project launch workshop will be organized before effectiveness (no later than
June 30, 2000) to familiarize the implementing unit and other institutions involved in the
execution of projects with Bank procedures. The workshop will cover procurement policy and
procedures and their application to the procurement arrangements planned for project
implementation, disbursement, reporting and auditing requirements.



Annex 6                                                             Page 5 of 8
Procurement Records
Detailed procurement records, reflecting the project's supply of goods and consultant services,
including records of time taken to complete key steps in the process and procurement activities
related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintained by the IMU. These records will be
maintained for at least two years after the project's closing date. The records for goods will
include public notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid opening information, bid evaluation
reports, formal appeals by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts with related addenda and
amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution, and any other useful information. The
records for consultants services will include public notices for expression of interest, request for
proposals and addenda, technical and financial reports, formal appeals by consultants and
outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution
and any other useful information. The procurement team will be responsible for organizing the
Unit and establishing procedures following Bank requirements. The existing filing conditions for
the IADB project are acceptable.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from the Bank office, the capacity
assessment of the MST has recommended two full supervision mission to visit the field to carry
out post-review of procurement actions during the first year of the project.
Procurement Audits
The IMU will provide the Bank, no later than two months after the end of each semester,
procurement records audited by independent procurement experts, acceptable to the Bank. The
records will be in accordance with internationally accepted standards.



Annex6a                                                                           Page 6 of 8
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements \a
(In US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                  Procurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
NCB                Other          N.B.F
Al. Competitive Fund for                           12.000                        12.000
Scientific Excellence (goods                    (3.475) c/                     (3.475)
and services)
B. Other Components
2. Goods
Communication and                               0.150 a/                       0.150 a/
Computer Equipment,                            (0.075)                        (0.075)
Publications
3. Services
Consultants, Technical                          2.300                          2.300
Assistance, Training,                          (1.150) b/                     (1.150)
Studies
4. IMU Operating Expenses                           0.500                         0.500
(0.250) a!                    (0.250)
5. Front-end Fee                                    0.050                         0.050
(0.050)                       (0.050)
Total                                              15.000                        15.000
(5.000)                       (5.000)
Note:  N.B.F. = not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
a.     National shopping
b.     Consultant's guidelines.
c.     By individual grant holders in accordance with Grant Agreements acceptable to the Bank.
d.     A total of US$ I million will be used for hiring individual consultants, not including fellows and research
assistants under the subprojects.



Annex6b                                                                           Page 7 of 8
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(In US$ million)
Expenditure                    Contract Value       Procurement              Contracts Subject to
Category                       (Threshold)          Method                   Prior Review
COMPETITIVE FUND FOR
SCIENCE EXCELLENCE
(a) Works                       >350-5,000       NCB                      First two
<350             Three Quotations        First two
(b) Goods
-Scientific Equipment   Regardless of Value    International/National  First two
Shopping
-All other goods in     Regardless of Value    InternationaVNational   First two
Proposals                                    Shopping
(c) Services \a             Regardless of Value    Consultants'           All over 100
- Firms                                       Qualifications, Single
Source Selection
- Individuals           Regardless of Value    Individuals Consultants
All over 35
OTHER COMPONENTS \b 
(a) Goods
Communication and                <50             National Shopping        First two
Computer Equipment               >50             NCB                      First two
Publications
(b) Services
- Firns                      >200             QCBS                     All
<100             Consultants Qualifications  All over 100
Regardless of Value    Single Source Selection  All over 100
- Individuals            Regardless of Value    Individual Consultants  All over 35
Total value of contracts subject to                                          US$1.5 (30% of the Loan
prior review:                                                                amount)
a. There are no contracts expected to cost over $100,000 with firms or over $50,000 with individuals
within the Grants.
b. No Civil Works are foreseen other than those contemplated under the Fund programs.



Ann.ex 6c                                                                   Page 8 of 8
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category-              Amount in US$    Disbursement Percentage
million
Fund for Scientific Excellence                         3.475    50% of amount disbursed
under each grant
agreement
Goods: Communication and Computer Equipment             0.075            50%
and Publications
Services: Consultants, Technical Assistance, Studies,   1.150            50%
Training
IMU-Operating Expenditures6                             0.250            50%
Front End Fee                                           0.050           100%
Total                                                   5.000            33%
Disbursement
The Project is expected to be completed over a two-and-one-half year period with a closing date
of June 30, 2003. IBRD funds will be disbursed according to the categories and percentages
shown in Table C of this Annex. Government's counterpart funds needed for each fiscal year to
cover the share of total project expenses not financed by IBRD will be allocated in each year's
budget made available for the project.
Use of Statement of Expenditures
Disbursements of the loan proceeds for research grants, and for contracts valued at less than
US$200,000 for goods and works, and less than US$100,000 for consulting firms (US$35,000
for individual consultants), local training, and operating costs will be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation supporting claims under SOEs will be retained by CE,
NER and the IMU and made available for review and examination by auditors and Bank
supervision mission members.
Special Account
To facilitate disbursements and timely project implementation, the Government will open,
maintain and operate a Special Account in US dollars, under terms and conditions satisfactory to.
the Bank, to cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The Fondo de Inversion de
Venezuela is considered an acceptable financial institution where a Special Account can be
opened in US dollars in the name of the executing agency. The executing agency will have
immediate and direct access to this account to pay for the expenditures under the loan.
Disbursements out of the Special Account will be made against grant agreements twice a year for
each grant agreement. The Authorized Allocation and initial deposit to the Special Account will
be US$500,000.00. Further replenishments will be made on the basis of applications
documenting the amounts actually expended from the Special Account. In addition, a Transitory
Account might be opened for registration purposes at the Central Bank. However, the transition
period of these funds in US dollars should not take more than three days.
6"Operating Expenditures of the Project Unif' means the cost of remuneration of IMU and Program Committee personnel,
secretarial services, office leasing, utilities, office supplies and materials.



Annex 7                                                                Page o of /
Annex 7
Millennium Science Initiative Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned            Actual
(At final PAD stage)
Project Budget (in US$)                      58,333             58.333
Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (montlhs)  6
First Bank mission (identification)          10/02/1999          10/04/1999
Appraisal mission departure                  02/10/2000         02/14/2000
Negotiations                                 03/10/2000         03/02/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                07/01/2000
Prepared by: Ministry of Science and Technology
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Specialty
Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen                    Task Team Leader
Michael Crawford                            Science and Technology Specialist
Marta Molares-Halberg                      Legal Counsel
Cesar Granados                             Team Assistant
Robin De Pietro-Jurand                     Consultant
Bojana Boh                                 Consultant
Birgit Zischke                             Consultant
Maria Lucy Giraldo                          Procurement Specialist
Efraim Jimenez                             Procurement Specialist
Livio Pino                                 Financial Management Specialist
German Escobar                             Certified Financial Management Consultant
Issam Abousleiman                          Disbursement Officer
William Saint                              Peer Reviewer
Carl Dahlman                               Peer Reviewer
Robert T. Watson                           Peer Reviewer



Annex 8                                                              Page I of 3
Annex 8
Millennium Science Initiative Project in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
Documents in the Project File
A.   Project Implementation Plan
1. Plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Superior
en Venezuela, Banco Mundial, October 22, 1999.
B.   Other Documents
2. Agroplan C.A., Estudio del Mercado Laboral. Fundayacucho, Coleccion Estudios 2, 1998.
3. Ailes Catherine P.; Pardee, Arthur E., Jr., Cooperation in Science and Technology- An
Evaluation of the U.S. Soviet Agreement.
4. Anuario Estadistico de Venezuela 1997. Republica de Venezuela, Presidencia de la
Repuiblica, Oficina.
5. Birdsall, Nancy; Changyong Rhee. Does Research and Development Contribute to Economic
Growth in Developing Countries? Policy Research Working Paper 1221.
6. Cardoza, Guillermo. Higher Education. Scientific Research and Sustainable Development in
Latin America:  Elements for a New Agenda.  Harvard International Institute for
Development, 1996.
7. Central de Estadistica y Informatica. Caracas, Noviembre 1998.
8. Characteristics of the Higher Education and Research System in Venezuela, The World Bank
LCSHD, November 12, 1999.
9. CNU/OPSU statistical data on Higher Education and Research in the Venezuela (data
sheets).
10. CNU/OPSU, Ley de Universidades. Universidad de los Andes, Merida, 1973.
11. CNU/OPSU. Separata del Boletin Estadistico de Education Superior 1989-1995.
12. CNU/OPSU/OCOAES, Oportunidades de Estudio en las Instituciones de Educacion Superior
de Venezuela. Caracas, 1999.
13. CNU/OPSU/OCOAES/CAN, Boletin de Informacion General Proceso Nacional de
Admision, years 1999, 1998, 1997.
14. Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy, Capitalizing on Investments in
Science and Technologa National Academy Press, Washington, D.C. 1999.
15. Coordinacion Central de Extension UCV. Extension Universitara en la UCV. Universidad
Central de Venezuela, 1998.
16. Crawford, Michael F., Review of World Bank Lending for Science and Technology 1992-
98, The World Bank, TechNet Working Paper, 1999.
17. Dagger, Fracehuli, Fundacion Universidad Central de Venezuela, 1999.
18. Datanalisis, Evaluacion Opinatica para la Jerarguizacion de las Instituciones Venezolanas
con Estudios de Postgrado en las Areas de Medicina, Economia. Gerencia, Ingenieria y
Educacion de Acuerdo a la Opinion de Estudiantes, Egresados v Empleadores.
Fundayacucho, Coleccion Estudios 3,1998.



Annex 8                                                             Page 2 of 3
19. Datanalisis, Evaluacion Opinatica para la Jerarguizacion de las Instituciones Venezolanas
con Estudios de Postgrado en las Areas de Ciencas Basicas. Ciencias del Agro y del Mar y
Humanidades de Acuerdo a la Opinion de Estudiantes. Egresados y Empleadores.
Fundayacucho, Coleccion Estudios 4, 1998.
20. Diretorio de Centros de Investigacion Cientifica y Technologica de Venezuela.
21. El Mercado de Valores - Desarrollo Industrial y Cambio Tecnologico. Nacional Financiera,
Febrero de 1999.
22. El Programa de Promocion del Investizador. http://www.ppi.org.ve/
23. Engizneers for the 21st Century, Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences.
24. Fundayacucho/APICE, El Credito Educativo - Una Altemativa para la Education Superior.
1997.
25. Galvis, Hernando Salcedo; Ruzza Aura T., Zerpa, Arminda. Estado Actual del los Estudios
de Postgrado en Venezuela. Fundayacucho, Caracas, 1998.
26. Gonzales, Luis F. Marcano, Sistema de Promocion del Investigador. Fundacion PI, Caracas,
1999.
27. Guadilla, Carmen Garcia. Situacion y Principales Dinamicas de Transformacion de le
Education Superior en America Latina. IESALC/UNESCO and Fundayacucho, Caracas,
1998.
28. Holm-Nielsen, Lauritz B., Back to Office Report (BTOR) for the Venezuela Millennium
Science Initiative Project , February 23, 2000.
29. Holm-Nielsen, Lauritz; Crawford, Michael and Saliba, Alcyone (Eds.). Institutional and
Entrepreneurial Leadership in the Brazilian Science and Technology Sector, The World Bank
Discussion Papers #325.
30. Holm-Nielsen, Lauritz B. and Crawford, Michael F.: The World Bank's Millennium Science
Initiative: Assumptions and Expectations, The World Bank LCSHD and EMTIN, 1999.
31. Inter-American Development Bank, Venezuela Second Science and Technology Program,
Operation no 1220/OC-VE, November 1999.
32. Khanna, Anupam, Knowledge Creation and Management in Global Enterprises, The World
Bank DEC Discussion Paper, 2000.
33. Korea Science and Engineering Foundation. Centers of Excellence (SRC. ERC).
34. Les Sciences hors d'Occident au Xxeme Siecle, 19-23 Septembre 1994, Orstrom, Paris.
35. Levy, Daniel C. Building the Third Sector. Latin America's Private Research Centers and
Nonprofit Development, Pittsburgh, 1996.
36. Lira, Amalio Sarco; Bonucci Mario. La Politica de Admision en Venezuela. CNU/ OPSU/
CNA, La Habana, 1998.
37. Macilwain, Colin. World Bank backs Third World Centres of Excellence Plan. Nature,
1998.
38. Mansfield, Edwin, Economic Returns From Investments in Research and Training, HRO
Working Paper HROWP 19, World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1994.
39. McMahon, Matthew. Getting Beyond the National Institute Model" for Agricultural
Research in Latin America - A Cross-Country Study for Brazil. Chile. Colombia and
Mexico. August 1992.
40. Mayorga, Roman. Cerrando la Brecha. Inter-American Development Bank, 1996.
41. Mejia, Elizabeth; Ortega, Joaquin. Sistema Nacional - de Estadistica Universitaria.
Fundayacucho, Coleccion Estudios 1, 1998.
42. Memorandum from Mr. Robert T. Watson to Mr. James Wolfensohn briefing the status of
the Millennium Institutes Project. October 15, 1998.



Annex 8                                                             Page 3 of 3
43. Memorandum to Mr. Ismail Serageldin, Vice-President ESD, from Michel Petit, Director
ESDAR on Back to office report of Foundation Meeting of the Commission on Science and
Technology for Sustainable Development in the South (COMSATS), Islamabad, October 4-
5, 1994.
44. Mervis, Jeffrey D.; Dennis Normile. Science in Southeast Asia. Science, March 1998.
45. Project Appraisal Document. Brazil Science and Technology Reform Support Project,
November 26, 1997.
46. Minutes of Meeting with Messrs. J. Wolfensohn, Shahid Javed Burki, Robert T. Watson,
Lauritz Holm-Nielsen, Phillip Griffith (Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton) on
October 15, 1998.*
47. Muller, Juan Antonio. El Credito Educativo Alternativa para la Participation de los Usuarios
en el Financiamiento de la Education Superior. Fundayacucho, Coleccion Estudios 5, 1998.
48. National Science Board, National Science Foundation, Science & Engineering Indicators
1996, Washington, D.C.
49. Popper et al., New Forces at Work: Industry Views Critical Technologies, Rand/Critical
Technologies Institute, Washington, D.C. 1998.
50. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) in the
Amount of US$5.0 Million to the Republic of Chile for a Millennium Science Initiative
Project. April 1, 1999.
51. Propuesta de Prestamo:  Argentina - Programa de Modernizaci6n Tecnol6gica. Inter-
American Development Bank.
52. Realizing the Globalization of Discovery. Report of the International Advisory Group on
Science and Technology. June 4-5, 1998.
53. Reinach, Fernando C. Article of Nature magazine Adapting to change in Latin America.
54. Roessner, J. David, Alan L. Porter; Huaidong Xu. National Capacities to Absorb and
Institutionalize External Science and Technologv.  Technology Analysis &  Strategic
Management, Vol. 4, No. 2, 1992.
55. Science and Engineering Indicators 1998, National Science Foundation.
56. Salazar, Miguel Alfonso. Talento Venezolano en los Estados Unidos. Canada y Japon.
Fundayacucho, Coleccion Estudios 6, 1998.
57. Science and Technology Program Evaluation - Project Performance Review. Brazil: Science
and Technology Program Loan 620/OC-BR Inter-American Development Bank, Evaluation
Office.
58. Science and Technology Proaram  Evaluation - Synthesis Report.  Inter-American
Development Bank, Evaluation Office. January 1998.
59. South American Science at a Crossroads. Nature, April 16, 1998, Volume 392, No. 6677.
60. Universidad Central de Venezuela, Construvendo la Universidad del Futuro. Caracas, 1998.
61. Villarroel, Cesar, Universidad. Estado y Evaluacion. Nuevas Relaciones y Compromisos.
Fundayacucho, Caracas, 1998.
62. World Bank Development Report: Knowledge for Development, 1998/99, The World Bank
& Oxford University Press, 1999.



Annex 9                                                                                                                                                                         Page I of 2
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela: Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/         Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                            Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancel.       Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 23
Active Projects
VE-PE-8216       1990   GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVARIAN            PRE-INV & INSTIT DEV                     30.00         0.00        0.00          7.80         7.80        7.80       S           S
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
VE-PE-8233       1993   GOV                                JUD.INFRA DEV                             30.00         0.00        0.00         16.35        16.37       16.37       S           S
VE-PE-8227       1993   MIN OF HEALTH                      ENDEMIC DISEASE CONT                      94.00         0.00       20.00          7.36       27.35           .19      S           S
VE-PE-8223       1993   GOVERNMENT                          HWY MGMT                                150.00         0.00       40.00         84.21      124.20        24.20       S           S
VE-PE-8218       1994                                      BASIC EDUC                                89.40         0.00       20.00         31.76       51.77         4.89       S           S
VE-PE-8210       1994   GOVT OF BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC   URBAN TRANSP.                                 100.00         0.00       20.00         43.78        63.78       23.78       S           S
OF VENEZUELA   ELA
VE-PE-8237       1995   GOVERNMENT                          INPARQUES                                55.00         0.00        0.00         45.99       35.99        25.07       S           S
VE-PE-8222       1995   GOVERNMENT                         AG EXT                                    39.00         0.00        0.00        -32.62        12.22  -     7.73-      S           S
VE-PE-8215       1995   REPUBLIC OF VEN. -                  HEALTH SERVICE REFOR                     54.00         0.00         0.00        27.03        21.42        7.62       S           S
VE-PE-8224       1996   GOVERNMENT                         MONAGAS WATER                             39.00         0.00        0.00         21.54       14.75         -.23       S           S
VE-PE-44325      1998   GOVERNMENT                         SUPREME COURT STRGTH                        4.70        0.00        0.00          3.10          .89        0.00       HS          HS
VE-PE-41807      1998   REPUBLIC OF BOLIVARIAN              PUB SEC MOD & DECEN                        8.00        0.00        0.00          8.00          .60        0.00       S           S
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
VE-PE-35743      1998   GOVT OF BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC   ENV MGT                                        28.00         0.00        0.00         27.22       27.22         0.00       S           S
OF VENEZUELA
VE-PE-57601      1999   REPUBLIC OF BOLIVARIAN              PUBLC.EXPNDITURE MGT                     20.00         0.00        0.00         19.54         0.00        0.00
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
VE-PE-40174      1999   GOVT OF BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC   CARACAS SLUM UPGRADE                           60.70         0.00        0.00         60.70         4.24        0.00       S           S
OF VENEZUELA
Total                                                                                               801.80         0.00      100.00        437.00      408.60       117.42
Active Projects        Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   264 .33            2,025.54            2,289.87
of which has been repaid:                   48.35             1,018.87             1,067.22
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   653.45             1,007.03             1,660.48
Amount sold                       :                  0.00               27.54                27.54
Of which repaid                                  0.00 :27.54                              27.54
Total Undisbursed                 :               437.00                   .36              437.36
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U =
unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 9                                                                              Page 2 of 2
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Jul-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval          Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1990              Pralca                  10.66    7.51   0.00     0.00  10.66    7.51      0.00    0.00
1991              ECV                      3.00    0.00   1.61     0.00   3.00    0.00      1.61    0.00
1991/92           Corimon                  0.00   10.98   0.00     0.00   0.00   10.98      0.00    0.00
1991/94           Zuliano                  0.00   14.07   0.00     0.00   0.00   14.07      0.00    0.00
1992             .Jose Methanol           18.12    6.80   0.00    26.45  18.12    6.80      0.00   26.45
1992              MAVESA                   0.00    9.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    9.00      0.00    0.00
1993              BVC-FPM                   .90    0.00   0.00     0.00    .90    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994              BVC-Sidetur              1.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   1.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995/00           SET                      0.00     .04    .50     0.00   0.00    0.00      .50    0.00
1995/98           COMSIGUA                35.00    0.00  10.00   121.00  35.00    0.00     10.00  121.00
1996              CANTV                    0.00    0.00  25.00     0.00   0.00    0.00     25.00    0.00
1997              Minera Loma             65.00    6.42   3.08    50.00  43.63    4.42      3.08   33.57
1997              Movilnet                35.00    0.00   0.00    60.00  35.00    0.00      0.00   60.00
Total Portfolio:               168.68   54.82  40.19   257.45  147.3   52.78    40.19  241.02
1
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity  Ouasi  Par
1999                  CERAVEN                15.00    0.00    0.00  25.
00
1999                  EDC                    40.00    0.00    0.00  35.
00
2000                  FORESTALTRILL          16.80    6.00    0.00  38.
rum                                           00
1999                . PROFALCA               24.00    0.00    0.00  31.
00
Total Pending Commitment:         95.80    6.00    0.00  129
.00



Annex 10                                  Venezuela Country at a Glance                                        Page 1 of 2
Latin   Uor-r-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-.
Venezuela   & Carib.  Incoine     Development dlamond'
.1998.;
Pooulation mid-vear (millions)                       23.2       502       588                 Life expectancy
GNPoercanita(Atlasmethod, US$)                      3.5a0     3.940     4.860
GNP Aflas merthod. VS$ bill10nsl                     81.3     1.978     2.862
Avereae annual wowth. t992-98
Poouation M.)                                         2.1       1.6       1.4
Labor force Il.)                                      3.0       2:3               GNP                              Gross
- . - . . - . per  W             JF ~ primary
Most recent estimat (latest vearavalabte. 1992-98-                                capita                       enrollment
Povertv 1% of noxulation below national ooveflv line)
Urban ooDulation f%of total oooulation-)               87        75.       77
Life exDectanov at birth (vears)                       73        70        70
Infant.mortalitv (Der 1.000.tivebirts),  .             21        32        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              5         8                         Access to safe water
Access to,safe water (% of oogiulation)                79-    75           79
Illiteracv (% of coDulation aae. 15.                    8        13        11
Gross orirnarv enrollment f% of school-ace ooDulationl   91     113       108              Venezuela
Male                                                 90                 - .              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               93
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997'    1998
Economic rattos'
GDP (USS billions)                          43.8     48.0      88.4      95.0
Gross dornestic investment/GOP              43.1     24.6      17.5      19.6
ExDorts of oodsandservices/GDP              23.2    22.1       29.1      20.0                      ade
Gross domeitic savinas/GDP                  36.3     25.1    .:26.6      19.6
Gross national savingsGOP- 35.8    24.9                        24.6      17.8
Current account balance/GDP                 -7.3     -2.9       5.5      -2.8     Domestic
Interest cavments/GDP                        0.6      5:.1      2.3   -2.3                                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                              24.5    72.0       40.2      38.9     Savings
Tatal debt service/exoorts                   8,4    37.        31.3      28.5
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      39.6
Present value of debtlexoorts    -.                     .     126.9
Indebtedness
1977487  1198-9     19994      1998   19994S-03
(avereae annual orowthl
GOPerwae annvalorwstfl            *-0.3      2 5      6.5      -0.7       31Venezue
GNP Der caoita                     -3.4      Q 2      6.6      -2.4       1 .3              Upper-middle-income grouc
Exoorts o ooods and services       -1.7      6.6      9.9       2.6       5.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
1% dtGDP1                                                                         eo7
Aariculture                                  4.9      6.1       4.5       5.0    40
Industrv                                    44.6     40.5      40.3      34.0    20
Manufacturina                              15.3    20.6       16.1      14.9
Services                                    50.5     53.4      55.2      61.0      0
-20       ~        5           7 9
Private consumotion                         51.5     64.7      67.2      72.9    .40
General oovemment consumotion               12.2     10.2       6.2       7.5               -     G01       e.GDP
lmoorts of ooods and services               30.0    21.6       20.0      20.1
197747  1988.98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (b)
(averaoe annual arowthl                                                           3
Aoriculture                                  2.7      0.7       2.6      -0.7     3
Industrv                                    -0.2      3.9       7.6      -2.0                                  0 
Manufacturina                               4.4      1.7       4.9      -3.9    10
Services                                     -0.7     1.3       5.6       0.9 o
Private consumotion                          2.3      1.2       5.9      -1.7
General aovernment consumotion               1.3      0.1       2.1       58      20
Gross domestic investment                   -7.2      2.8      15.1       0.5   -30
Imoorts of aoods and services               -3.6      4.6      18.3       7.9                   Exports       Imports
Gross nabonal oroduct                       -0.8      2.6       8.8      -0.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
^The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-arouo averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomolete.



Venezuela
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prces                                7.7    28.4       50.0      35.8    120
Implidt GDP deflator                          9.9    37.5       38.4      21.2      80
Govemment finance                                                                   40
(%6 of GDP, includes current grants)                                                n
Current revenue                              21.6    21.6        23.2     17.9             93   94   9s   98   97   98
Current budget balance                        8.5      4.4        5.5      1.6                   GDP rllaror       IPt
Overall surplus/deficit                      -4.4    -0.1         1.6     -2.5
TRADE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         9,551   10,577    23,457    17,320     25,000
Petroleum and dervatives                  9,221    9,054    18,448    12,028 *
Steel                                         ..     523       939       947
Manufactures231                                                         154
Total imports (cif)                         9,886    8,832    10,369    13,889     19,000
Food                                        902        ..      466       678
Fuel and energy                              66                                    .0
Capital goods                             3,202    3,057      4,414     2,872        0
92  93  94  95  99  97  99
Export price index(1995=100)                    ..      ..       107        74
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                      ..      ..       104       102             93Exports      *Ilports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..       103        73
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987  .  1997        1998     Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
(US$ millions)
Exportsof goods and services               10,165   11,428    25,120    18,883      15
Importsofgoodsand servioes                 13,149   11,108    18,282    20,094
Resource balance                           -2,984    .320      6,838    -1,211     10
Net income                                     88   -1,619    -2,031    -1,468      s
Net current transfers                        -283      -91        21        30                         mm
Current account balance                    -3,179   -1,390     4,828    -2,649                    94  95  96  97
-5
Financing items (net)                       3,978     455    -2,173        133
Changes in net reserves                      -799      935    -2,655     2,516    -10
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (USS millions)       8,213    9,402    19,039    16,528
Conversion rate (DEC, 16cal/US$)              4.3     14.5      488.6    547.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(05$ millions)           -                                                         | Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       10,731   34,570    35,541    36,959
IBRD                                       196       11      1,213     1,219
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                        A: 1,219
G 5 204         Ci, 1226
Total debt service                            915    4,872      8,634    6,092
IBRD                                        37        17       259       256
IDA                             .0                    0          0         0                                  D  ,2
Composition of net resource flows
Offidal grants                                1        1        11         ..E: 1,
Offical creditors                           -59       66      -254       381
Prvate creditors                          2,012   -1,780       765    -1,943
Foreign direct investment                    -3      -16     4,462     3,450
Portfolio equity                           -41         0      -569      736               F: 20,336
World Bank program
Commitments              0        0        41        69     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A - IBRD     E - Bilateral
Commitments                                   0        0        41        69      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                 5       0         91       187      C - IMF                      G - Short-te
Principal repayments                        22        16       172       179    |
Netflows                                    -17      -16       -81         8
Interest payments                            15        1        87        76
Net transfers                              -32       -17      -168       -68
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/9/99



Annex 11                                                                                 Page I of 8
Annex 11
Indicators and Description of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela's S&T sector
1.      Basic indicators.  The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (Venezuela) consists of
23 states and one federal district (Caracas). It covers an area of 916,445 km2 and has a
population of 23 million, 4 million of whom live in Caracas. The annual population growth
from 1990-97 was 2.2 percent - higher than in comparable Latin American countries. In
1997, the GNP was US$78.7 billion, GNP per capita was US$3,450, and PPP GNP per
capita was US$8,530. The structure of output in 1997 indicated that services represented
49%, industry 47%, manufacturing 18%, and agriculture 4%. Approximately 11.8% of the
population lived below the poverty line of US$1 per day [ Wrld Development Indicators,
1999] .
Country      Population   Population    GNP per    PPP GNP    Labor force    Under 5         Adult
(Millions,   growth rate    capita    per capita   growth rate,   mortality    illiteracy
1997)     1990-1997    ($, 1997)    ($, 1997)    1990-97(/)  rate, 1996,   rate, 1995
.(/)             .                               (per 1, 000)   (M and F)
Argentina       36           1.3         8,570        9,950         2.1           25         4  4
Brazil          164          1.4        4,720         6,240          1.7          42        17  17
Chile      _    15           1.6         5,020       12,080         2.1           13         5  5
Colombia        38           1.8        2,280         6,720         2.7           31         9  9
Denmark          5           0.4        32,500       22,740         0.0           6          ..  ..
Germany         82           0.5        28,260       21,300         0.3           6
Japan           126_         0.3        37,850       23,400         0.6           6
Mexico          95      r   1.8    1 3,680            8,120         2.8           36         8  13
USA             268          1.0       828,740          7            1.1           8.
Venezuela  |    23           2.2    |   3,450         8,530         3.0           28         8  10
World Bank Development Report: Knowledge for Development, 1998/99, The World Bank & Oxford University Press, 19991
Education
2.      Primary education  takes nine years and is compulsory. In 1996, the primary gross
enrolment rate was 91% with a net enrolment rate of 84%. Male and female pupils were
equally represented (50:50%). The percentage of the cohort reaching grade 5 was 86 %  for
males and 92% for females. Expected years of schooling in 1996 were ten years for males
and eleven years for females[ World Development Indicators, 1999] .
Country        Public      Primary net   Secondary net  Expected years   Scientists and     High
expenditure    enrolment,    enrolment,    of schooling,    engineers in    technolog
on educatioiz     1995           1995           1992        R&D, 1981-95   exports, 1996
1995        (%/6 of age    (/ of age                    (per million       (% of
.(% of GNP)     group)         group)        (M and F)        people)      manufacturing
exports)
Argentina       4.5            ..             59           13  14            350             17
Brazil          ..             90             19            9  9             165             18
Chile           2.9            86             55           12  12            364             18
Colombia        3.5            85             50           ..  ..            39              21
Denmark         8.3            99             86           15  15           2,647            25
Germany         4.7            100            88           15  14           3,016            25
Japan           3.8            100            96                            5,677            39
Mexico          5.3            100             ..           ....             95              32
USA             5.3            96             89           16  16           3,732            44
BR of           5.2            88             20           10  11            208             14
Venezuela                      ._                                                     I _
[World Bank Development Report: Knowledge for Development, 1998/99, The World Bank & Oxford University Press, 1999]



Annex 11                                                              Page 2 of 8
3.    Secondary education is unusually short. Most programs are of two years duration
with some vocational programs requiring three years of study. Students are divided into
two tracks: (1) a science and humanities curriculum, that prepares students for higher
education (media diversificada), and (2) a vocational curriculum (media profesional).
According to the World Bank Development Report, Knowledge for Development
(1998/99), net enrolment in secondary education in the Venezuela was only 20% (and
27.2% gross enrolment according to Anuario Estadistico 1997), which while similar to
Brazil, is substantially lower than in other Latin American countries. In secondary schools,
male students were fewer (42%) than female students (58%).
4.    Tertiary gross enrolment in 1996 was 25%[ World development indicators, 1999]7.
Students can choose between short (3 years) or long study programs (5 years). Universities
are the only higher education institutions recognized by present law, and have a leading
function in the Venezuelan education, culture and science. In practice, degree granting
Research Institutes also conduct basic and applied research in various areas of science,
humanities and technology, and serve as technical assistance centers and advanced training
centers for postgraduate students. University institutes and colleges usually conduct
shorter (or less demanding) higher education programs than universities. In public higher
education institutions all undergraduate studies are free, while students pay tuition fees for
post-graduate courses. Private institutions charge tuition fees at both levels. In 1998, there
were 140 institutions of higher education in the Venezuela: 19 public and 19 private
universities, and 48 public and 54 private University Institutes and Colleges. In ten years
(1986/87 to 1996/97) the total enrolment in higher education increased by 66.4% (from
440,734 students to 733,294 students) [Statistical data CNU/OPSU]. Total public spending
on education has fluctuated over the last 20 years. In 1995, it was 5.2% of GDP. Higher
education receives a greater share of the budget than any other level (approx. 40%).
However, all public universities are financed from the federal budget, while a large
proportion of primary and secondary school financing comes from the budgets of states
and communities.
5.    Postgraduate programs began emerging in 1970 and are now rapidly expanding.
According to the statistics of the Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho, there were a total
of 1,322 postgraduate programs was in 1998 - 658 Specialization, 575 Masters and 89
Doctoral programs. Of these, only 194 of postgraduate programs were officially accredited
(49 Specialization, 112 Masters and 33 Doctoral programs). By area of knowledge, 31% of
postgraduate studies belong to the social and economic sciences; 19% to health; 18% to
education; 14% to engineering, architecture and technology; 7% to basic sciences; 5% to
agricultural and marine sciences; 4% to humanities and arts; 2% to interdisciplinary areas
and 0.07% to military arts and sciences[ Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho, 1998] .In
1998 there were 46,249 active postgraduate students (57% at public, 39% at private
universities and 4% at non university institutions) and 20,848 professors [ Eirdaci6n Gran
Mariscal de Ayacucho, 19981, which suggests a ratio of approximately two students per
professor. However, considering the various factors involved (part timne dedication), this
number should be taken cautiously.
7 Data from Anuario Estadistico de Venezuela (1997) show gross enrollment in higher education to be 29.5%.



Annex 11                                                          Page 3 of 8
6.    Shortage of specialists with Ph.D's. The structure of the teaching faculty
appointed to postgraduate programs by level of education shows that only about one third
(5,865) of them have a Ph.D. The remaining two thirds of postgraduate faculty have a
Master's degree (9,171), a Specialization (4,224), or other education (415) [ lirulaci6n
Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho, 1998]. This clearly suggests a shortage of specialists with
Ph.D's. For instance, just to replace the professors with a Ph.D. (assuming that each year
1/25 of professors retire), Venezuela will need 235 Ph.D. specialists for postgraduate
teaching. To replace each retired member with a new Ph.D. member, Venezuela would
need 787 new Ph.D. professors per year just to maintain the present postgraduate programs.
In 1999, the Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho (Fundayacucho) had 851 active
postgraduate loans, of which 301 were for Ph.D. students. If each of these students
graduate in three years, this will still result in only 100 new Ph.D.s  per year.
Knowledgeable observers note that the present policy of Fundayacucho for supporting
graduate students contributes to this problem by denying scholarships to a large proportion
of Ph.D. candidates who apply for support, and that many students and their supervisors
wait for several years (more than five) for financial support from Fundayacucho or
elsewhere.
7.    Postgraduate students costs and support. The average cost per student depends
on the higher education institution and type of study being undertaken. Specialization and
masters degree studies at different public and private universities rang from US$235 at the
Universidad Pedag6gica Experimental Libertador to approx. US$1,500 at the Universidad
Central de Venezuela and US$11,000 at IESA, an authorized non-university higher
education institution. Doctoral studies cost from US$330 at the Universidad de Oriente to
US$3,100 at the Venezuelan Institute for Scientific Research (IVIC) [ lindaci6n Gran
Mariscal de Ayacucho, 19981. In the 1990s, postgraduate student grants were gradually
replaced with loans .The majority of them were granted for postgraduate studies abroad.
For instance, in 1997 out of 851 new loan recipients, 344 studied in the Venezuela and 507
in foreign countries (266 in the USA, 80 in Spain, 56 in UK, 29 in France, 13 in Mexico, 9
in Brazil and 54 in other countries) [ Fundayacucho, Anuario Estadistico de Venezuela
1997 .
Research and development system
8.    R&D indicators. According to the World Bank Development Report [K vwledge
for Development, 1998/99], Venezuela had 208 scientists and engineers in R&D per
million inhabitants in 1995 and ranked higher than Colombia (39), Mexico (95) and Brazil
(165), but lower than Argentina (350) and Chile (364). Compared to the industrialized
countries, the number of researchers in the Venezuela is more than ten times smaller (e.g.
2,647 in Denmark; 3,016 in Germany; 5,677 in Japan; 4,358 in Russian Federation, 1,098
in Spain, and 3,732 in the USA). High technology products, which may be taken as an
illustration of technological development, play a minor role in the Venezuelan economy.
Venezuelan high technology exports in 1996 were only 14% of manufacturing exports,
which was lower than in other countries of the region (Argentina 17%, Brazil and Chile
both 18%, Colombia 21%, Mexico 32%), and substantially lower than in the OECD
countries (e.g. Denmark and Germany 25%, Ireland 62%, Japan and Korea 39%, Singapore



Annec 11                                                                               Page 4 of8
71%, USA 44%) [World Development Report, i998/99]. Venezuela allocates 0.35% of
GDP for research[ Cetto & Vessuri, 1998; data from CYTED/RICYT 1997] ,which is
believed to be insufficient (the target is about 2.0%).
Country    GDP 1995  GERD as   % investment   Government   Enterprise   High.Educ.  Private R&D
(S billion)   % of GDP  1993-94     R&D         R&D         R&D      expenditure
public/private  expenditure   expenditure  expenditure  1994-95 (/)
1994-9S (v/)  1994-95 (%)  1994-95 (2/o)
Argentina     280.2    0.37'      85/15        51.9        10.6'       36.0        i.5
Bolivia         6.6   0.37        64/36        62.0          -         19.0        14.0
Chile          51.3    0.78       70/30        41.4        17.7        40.9         0
Ecuador        18.0    0.08       87/13        44.9         9.1        38.2        7.8
Mexico        286.9    0.35       80/20        37.2        18.3        40.4        4.1
Panama          6.2    0.10                    38.4          0         61.6         0
Venezuela      55.8    0.35         -          50.5        26.9.       22.6         0
Canada      X 639.4    1.52       44/56        15.4         59.1       24.3        1.2
USA          7116.5    2.4        36/64         9.8        71.0        15.7        3.5
Spain       .482.44    0,93'      52/48        21.4        45.9        31.6        1.1
Portugal      109.3    0.59       59/413       27.0        20.0        34.0        20.0
[ Source: Cetto & Vessuri, 1998; data from CYTED/RICYT 199 ' GERD=Gross domestic expenditure on R&D in relation to
GDP (Gross domestic product): 2 expenditure on S&T; 3 1991/92; 4 1994
The opinion is that industries, especially the oil industry, do not contribute enough to
research. In 1997, the total income of oil industry was US$32 billion. According to the
agreed upon 0.4%  which is to be dedicated for research, they should contribute US$128
million. However, in practice, only one-fourth of this amount was allocated and spent for
their own research[ Fundacion P.P.I.] .
9.     Researcher Promotion Program. In 1999, the research system  in the Venezuela
consisted of approximately 5,000 researchers. However, only 1,668 of them qualified as
international scale researchers according to the high standards of the Researcher Promotion
Program  (Programa de Promoci6n del Investigador - PPI). The PPI was established in
1990 as a program to reduce brain drain of Venezuelan researchers, to promote scientific
and technological activities in the country, to stimulate the efficie'ncy and quality of
research, and to establish a scientific and technological information system. In 1991, a
foundation was established which provided financial incentives, in the form of individual
grants, for high quality researchers from non-profit (public) research groups. The
foundation budget (allocated by the government) was US$3.2 million in 1998, with a
proposed budget for FY1999 of US$7.5 million. The system is voluntary and based on five
categories of researchers: Candidates (younger than 35, preparing their Ph.D. thesis), Level
I (Ph.D. and at least 1 publication or without Ph.D. and' 8 publications), Level 11 (20
publications in international journals), Level III (30 publications, international recognition,
and supervision of postgraduate students), and level "Emeritus" (senior scientists over 60,
with great international recognition) [ Table 92 . Financial imcentives for researchers are
individual grants. The grant for a Candidate equals the minimal government salary (about
US$150). Grants for other categories are proportionaliy higher - US$300 for the Level I,.
US$450 for Level II., US$600 for Level III and US$850 for the "Emeritus"(Level IV) level.
In practice, because of the relatively low social recognition accorded researchers and the
low basic salaries of researchers in the public sector, grants are being used to complement
salaries. The categories are not permanent. In cases of insufficient scientific performance
of a researcher, demotion to a lower category occurs. The performance of Candidates is
peer-reviewed after three years, of researchers in Level I after two years, of Level II
researchers after three years, and of Level IV researchers after four years.



Annex 11                                                                           Page  of8
Peseardiers In he PPI program                  PPI researchers by area of research, 1999
1.800  .n n                                                                 Phys,cal
u.  1.600                                                        SEngneenn    sciences.
Si  i,40 .,s                  _         m     _rTechnology &                 Cnemistry &
1,400  ~~~~~~~~~**Earth Sciences                                    M
o1200 1          _                                                  5%         22%
02           '              l   -   l- in '-i   '  '  '       Social Sc.ences
S600  *E E Eh E
E  400~                                                                      Meamm mm  20
Z  20C                                                                      13iooog,cal a
z        199 __0                                                       Agmr,caural
Sc.ences
990 1991 19921993 1994 199 1996 1997 1998 1999                        43%
Yeas
Because of its high quality standards, the program has several advocates; however, it has
even more opponents - their main criticism being that PPI supports only a scientific elite,
and that it conflicts with the autonomy of universities. Efforts are being made by some
research groups to expand the PPI research quality criteria to the entire research sector,
including higher education institutions, and to introduce financial incentives/rewards for
top quality research groups and outstanding research achievements.
10.    Scientific publications. According to the PPI statistics, Venezuelan scientists
publish 600-700 scientific papers in internationally recognized scientific journals per vear
(in average each PPI researcher publishes 1 paper per two years). The number of patents in
very low. According to Cetto & Vessuri, 1998 [ data from CYTED/RICYT 1997],
Venezuela contributes less than 0.05% of world's scientific articles, which is far less than
Chile (0.2%), Mexico (0.3%), Argentina (0.4%), and Brazil (0.6%).
11.    Research  fields and  institutions. The  largest proportion  of PPI qualified
researchers work in the field of medical, biological and agricultural sciences, followed by
physics, chemistry and mathematics. PPI statistics show that most of the high quality
research in the Venezuela comes from the public universities with the longest scientific
traditions. The first three universities in the table below are the ones with the longest (more
than one hundred years old) tradition, while the fourth one enjoys the reputation of being
one of the very top quality universities in the country. IVIC is the largest non-university
research institution, founded in 1959, and conducts basic and applied research in biology,
medicine, physics, mathematics and chemistry. It also serves as a center of expertise in
these fields and is involved in higher education on the postgraduate level.



Annex 11                                                                       Page 6 of 8
Researchers in the Researcher Promotion Program by Scientific Field, 1999 (source: FUNDACION P. P.I1)
Instituion                     Physical     Medical,     Social    Engineering    Total
Sciences,    Biological &    Sciences   Techniology
Chemistry &    Agricultural            & Earth
Math        Sciences                Sciences
Universidad Central de Venezuela  67          215         116         39         437
Universidad de Los Andes         90            97          69         47         303
Universidad del Zulia            32           III          63         36         242
Universidad Sim6n Bolivar        62            36          36         75         209
Instituto Venezolano de          68            84          11          4         167
Investigaciones Cientificas         .
Universidad Centro Occidental     5            28          2           2         37
"Lisandro Alvarado"
All others                       42           144          37         50         273
Total                            366          715         334         253    1 1,668
12.    Extension programs. Besides teaching and research, almost all public and some
larger private universities have been involved in extension programs, organized as projects
for technical assistance and dissemination of knowledge. Extension projects take different
forms, such as (1) educational programs, seminars, discussions and dissemination of
knowledge about specific problems of the country, (2) regional community participation
projects in cooperation with local governments, in medicine, agriculture, engineering,
natural and social sciences, education and in interdisciplinary fields, (3) institutional
projects as technical and advisory assistance to individual institutions, (4) technical and
scientific assistance, laboratory analysis and services. Many extension projects rely on
voluntary participation from professors and students and are free of charge. In other cases,
small autonomous enterprises are created as university spin-offs, and part of the profit
returns to the university as additional income for research, cultural activities and sports
[ Fundaci6n Universidad Central de Venezuela, 1999] .There are no (or very small) direct
financial or promotional incentives for the members of teaching faculty to participate in
non-profit extension programs. However, the recent government supports extension
programs and there are hopes for an increase of financial resources for their growth and
progress. Due to the deteriorating position of university employees, full-time university
teachers and researchers have been allowed to spend up to four hours per week consulting
in their field of expertise, which brings them some individual additional income.
13.    Commercialization of research. A well known example, linked with university
extension programs, is the Fundacion Universidad Central de Venezuela (UCV), created in
1982 to promote the commercialization of research products developed at the university,
and to act as a recipient for any donations made by the public and private sectors to the
University. The Foundation acts as the Headquarters to a group of companies which offer
advice and services, develop new products, apply and transfer new technologies to the
production of goods and services, provide the possibility for post graduate and
undergraduate students to get practical experience, and strengthen the relationship between
the UCV and the productive sector. For instance, 23 new companies were formed in 1999
at the Universidad Central de Venezuela; three of them were closed down very soon, four
do not operate, but 16 of them are active.



Annex 11                                                                      Page 7 of 8
The turnover of the Fundacion UCVin 1997 was US$335,000, and US$1,565,000 in 1998
(a 367% increase). The foundation's profit was US$196,000 in 1997 and US$1,196,500 (a
510% increase). Recently, a cooperative relationship was established between the CONAC
(National Council for Culture), the CENAMEC (National Center for the Improving of
Science Teaching) and PDVSA (a petroleum industry) [ Endacion Universidad Central de
Venezuela, 1999].
14.   CDSHyT. The Consejo de Desarrollo Cient(fico, Humanistico y Tecnol6gico
(Board for Scientific and Technological Development) is responsible for managing the 8%
of the public universities budget which is allocated to research. The research budget for
public universities was US$56.1 million in 1998 and US$55.3 million in 1999 (of which
US$25-26 million was allocated to the UCV each year) [ CNI/OPSU data] .Approximately
20% of national experimental universities have substantial research programs, while private
universities have almost no research, primarily because of financial constraints (financing
of research comes from their own budget).
15.   CONICIT. The main governmental agency supporting scientific research and
development activities is the Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y
Tecnol6gicas (CONICIT). In 1997, it had a total budget of US$91.6 million which was
used for, among other things, the promotion of research and development, the support of
innovation, and the modernization of science and technology sectors.
Program                          CONICIT Budget of expenses in 1997
(millions of USS.)
Board of Directors                                                    11.48
Material and Financial Resource Planning                              5.18
Policies, Plans and Strategies for Communication and International    0.76
Cooperation
Research and Development Promotion                                    26.74
Support to Innovation                                                 17.61
Activation, Drive and Modernization of the Science and Technology Sector  14.59
Amount not allocated to Progms                                        15.21
Total                                                                 91.58
[Anuwio Estadistico de Venezuela 1997. Oficina Central de Estadistica e Informdtica. Caracas, 1998]
CONICIT supports research groups through grants. In 1997, 285 grants were distributed to
basic sciences (93), agricultural sciences (57), engineering and technology (57), social
sciences (56) and health sciences (22). CONICIT financing awarded through subvention
programs to scientific research projects was US$6.47 million in 1997, of which about 90%
was allocated to the five largest research institutions - four universities and IVIC.
Technology and Medical Sciences received 41 % of the money. CONICIT grants for
technological development in 1997 (US$2.3 million in total) were focused primarily on
biotechnology, science of technology and engineering, informatics, and engineering.



.4nnex /I                                                                           Page 8 of 8
CO,ICITgrants for scientific research projects at the national universities and research institutes in 1996:1997
Total                                                          6,470,000 s
By receiving institutions
Universidad Central de Venezuela                                 35.30 %
Universidad Sim6n Bolivar                                        6.20 %
Universidad de Los Andes                                         12.60 %
Universidad del Zulia                                            13.40 %
Instituto Venezolano de Investigaciones                          21.60 %
Cientificas
All other Institutions                                           10.90 %
By research fields
Natural Sciences                                                 18.70 %/.
Techpology and Medical Sciences                                  41.40 %
Architecture and City Planning                                   18.30 %
Technology and Agricultural and Veterinary                       4.40 %
Sciences
Social Sciences                                                  10.80 %
En vironnient                                                    6.30 %
[ Anuario Estadistico de Venezuela 1997. Oficina Central de Estadistica e Informatica. Caracas, 1998]
COiVICITgrantsfor technological development in 1996/1997
Total                                                          2,300,000 $
By technological fields
Science of Technology and Engineering                            23.60 %
Infbrmatics                                                      14.64 %
Engineering                                                       8.88%
Nlaterial Constructioni                                          0.10%
Biotechnolog)                                                    49.77 %
Agricultural and Veterinary Sciences                             0.31 %
Other Technologies                                                2.70%
[Amnarto Esgadisuico de Venezuela 1997. Oficina Central de Estadistica e Inform4tzca. Caracas, 1998]
16.    Competition for grants. According to interviews conducted with researchers, a
typical CONICIT grant amounts to between US$100,000 to US$130,000 per research
group. There is approximately a 30%  rejection rate of research proposals. Quality and
research performance parameters have not as yet been used as a financial incentive.
However, a group of academic research scientists is emerging who are known for the
quality and relevance of their work. They are trying to introduce mechanisms which would
link the quality of a group or individuals scientific work to the level and sources of funding
available and to the professional recognition and prestige accorded the field and the
researchers. They are becoming increasingly involved in international scientific exchange
of knowledge, publishing in recognized journals, and are willing to compete with other
contenders for research funding, as well as participate in the formation of priority national
programs for academic research. However, these academnics are estimated not to exceed 10-
30%  of the teachers/researchers  in higher education  and  research  institutes in the
Venezuela.



IBRD 30802
jj-- ;K:a;-;Ht ..   .          .......           i.;                                                                                                               sl; - OW",,,- - wb,  L;i6  i  VI.NCENT ...... IBRD 600
Ann C                                                                                                             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nd the
Ca r i  b e a n   Sea                                              GRENADINES
loins flU Ayes   IVVnt             Do Wooqo4To                                    GRENADA
l/2                                                                             i       t uzz,85tu.,e 4t'S 1N y i ,hi E < 3 . Ishrtlehes .~* -.  - t  5Vnnl1E'
1. IiW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I EMil
(B6yT~~~~~Lp6
_Ccmit^  >  opoonrsd 8p -'io'  !o                DISTRITO Is>LTEotogoTVatQ sloDeMaArLgr4-9DttItSTjRIOA5ESpARTA A                  t06
P vteirldmLit  -  ,i A i ' D 91  - --' '   FEDERAL             --   PUM     R4t-  orl-m-T              PudP      TRtNIDADAND TOBAGO
/ ~onoA>             booT ~wn~p                                ARAOt;L FEDERAL                                                                                        Atlantic
 d<,)f   --.    ts.                   .--- 4 83~ ;oqo 4tvt-4 -- i00c  2io  -   ty    hT                      CooplfM0. bop       o        mrm
. g   - 5uasdua t M ~ --  1 H  ,, F 1_1 9 E     LRY LO a50 .  *,                                  H*      r 
"AAk               cl                     A                       E DrdR;, I
~~ o   bELECTED C TIES               )                                           >                             TC<t      ' Sont . 47'./     t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Z"  A la ti
MoAtooA                   N    0~~~~~~~~~~~~E Tcr  SCoos  )InM, -                          Aw9oc00            Jnp%tyIunI                                      Ocean
S   STATE CAP TALS                  2  '                                        /                   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~Poooo, -- DETA/
+< Nc*    $OfBLCAPITv A   Noon       A)T JoL] ESLoMod                                %o d -aN. TP.no,                                                  AoT
Co    l NoJi C OAD o                                              2                                           ATEO t      \
UNSURFGPACED ROADS                                           'a                                               \. A0 M' AApo 7bO%oA$S G,   ,  ,                       ,
Xlh  OILFIELDS           C O L O M~~~~~~~~~~~E BTt I   A                Rs Ir   C Emrd 2                                                                  0
C+ -                                                                                                AZOTEo AROT  oo      o '
6- RIVERS                                                                                                          Ea -  tD?, 
KLOMETER5~~~~~-                                                                                                 d, c_  >  _z,i                                        lts
F,-d.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
4' ThA                 O<5p do          Blrejo         Ocoo,oo        Bon           .,obs-                                                                         '7WSIeW.eBzSGL  n    _   J j<O.>
Sugeeo h 12!iPoS u    nroo Se.!.                               STqo    Fnooo no     A00o or   Coion C~do -                           El               G .on.poi
El  kl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~loo
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC 2000LVA
(                                                         0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.  -    C)
REPUBLICA BOLI VARIANA-                                                                                                         000 '                 Lsolo/GYN
DE VENEZUELA6oo                                                                                                                    Uno
SELECTED C TIES)                                                                                                                 Co.        Too'    '
STATE CAP TAILS                                                                                                                              El... 
NAT 0N AL CAPITAL                                                                             -                                  kbo
PAN AMER CAN HIGHoWAY                                     \IAoo P        So,L C.-oI,o l-.,,-
MA N ROADS                                                                                 -       ,      .-'T-                                                       8
UNSURFACED ROADS                                       .o                   AMAZONAS,                NN                     
OILFELDS                        COLOMBIA                                                                'C
-t  AIRPORTSA                                                                                                                                                         QMAy
RIVERS                                                     h'"'0          0        ~         o                                                     gn      0      L
-STATE EOUNDARIES                                                                                   00/.
INTERNAT ONAL EOUNDAEIES, r
-           %, n/           \Soo~~~~~~~~~CorOMSdoRiM NMSS 4q40:                                     ~         U     D
KT        BC         TO        F                                    ,\ETERS                                                     'A                                       &
Th, 1-KnPTER                                                                   I                           ,,,.,I,  R  AM
11--1 ~   ~    ~     I                                      ,,.                                                                                             A --\- -,BRA       
d L-e-~~~~~~                                                                     615'                                                                   B R A Z I L~~~Nr  *  0
MARCH 2000



