Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4572-VE
Loan Agreement
(Millennium Science Initiative Project)
between
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 15, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4572-VE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 15, 2001, between the BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
“'Euro', € and 'EUR' each means the lawful currency of the member states 
of the European Union that adopt the 
single currency in accordance with the 
Treaty establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on 
European Union.”
(b)
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full amount then due 
and payable to it under the Loan 
Agreement, the Bank shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner and for such 
purposes under the Loan Agreement as the Bank shall in its sole discretion 
determine.”
(c)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”
(d)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any university, science and/or technology institute 
or other legal entity or an individual engaged in scientific research and operating in 
the Borrower’s territory which is selected, pursuant to the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, to receive grants from the Competitive Fund (as defined below); 
(b)
“Competitive Fund” means the fund referred to in Part A of the Project;
(c)
“CONICIT” means Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y 
Tecnológicas, the Borrower’s science and technology council established pursuant to 
the CONICIT law of July 13, 1967 as amended by the CONICIT law published in the 
Official Gazette No. 3.481-Extraordinary of December 13, 1984;
(d)
“CONICIT Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower, through the S & T Ministry (as defined below), and CONICIT 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
Page  3
to time;
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4); set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Financial Management Action Plan” means the plan for the establishment 
of a financial management system for the Project set forth in the letter dated March 
3, 2000 from the Borrower to the Bank;
(h)
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.03 
of this Agreement;
(i)
“Implementation and Management Unit” or “IMU” means the unit referred to 
in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
“Law 296” means the Borrower’s Procurement Law published in the Official 
Gazette (as defined below) No. 5386 Extraordinary on October 11, 1999;
(k)
“Official Gazette” means Gaceta Oficial, the Borrower’s gazette;
(l)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter 
dated March 3, 2000 from the Borrower to the Bank;
(n)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(o)
“Research Subproject” means a scientific research and/or training project 
to be carried out by a Beneficiary which is eligible for financing by the Competitive 
Fund in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
(p)
“S & T Ministry” means Ministerio de Ciencia y Tecnologia, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Science and Technology operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Organic Law 
for the Central Administration published in the Official Gazette No. 36807 on October 
14, 1999; and
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, 
the first Interest Payment 
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits 
in dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
Page  5
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09.  Without any limitation to the authority of the representative of 
the Borrower under Section 6.01 of this Agreement, the General Director of Public 
Finance of the Borrower is authorized by the Borrower to furnish to the Bank on its 
behalf the evidence of the authority of the persons or persons authorized to act on 
behalf of the Borrower for purposes of Article 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions and sign applications for withdrawal, and the authenticated 
specimen signature of any such person.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out Part D of the Project, through the S & T Ministry; and
(ii)
cause CONICIT, under the terms of the CONICIT Implementation 
Agreement, to carry out, following the policy 
and technical decisions of 
the Board of Directors referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, Parts 
A, B and C of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, 
educational, financial, administrative, management and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, through the S & T Ministry, 
with CONICIT, setting forth their respective obligations in the implementation of 
Parts A, B and C of the Project, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank (the CONICIT Implementation Agreement).
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CONICIT Implementation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the CONICIT Implementation 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause CONICIT, in the carrying out of Part 
A of the Project, to enter into agreements with each Beneficiary, under terms and 
conditions substantially similar to those of the model form contained in the 
Operational Manual (the Grant Agreements), such agreements to provide for:
(i)
the term of implementation of the Research Subproject which shall 
not be less than two nor more than ten 
years;
(ii)
the transfer by CONICIT to such Beneficiary, on a grant basis, of 
part of the funds required by such 
Beneficiary to carry out a 
Research Subproject;
(iii)
the obligation of CONICIT to finance research and training 
activities following the term of the Research 
Subproject; and
Page  6
(iv)
the obligation of the Beneficiary:  (A) to carry out the Research 
Subproject in accordance with the 
Operational Manual; and 
(B) procure the goods, works and services required for Research Subprojects in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CONICIT to exercise its rights under the Grant 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, CONICIT and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce any Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
3.04. (a) The Borrower shall for purposes of implementation of Parts A and B of 
the Project:
(i)
establish, and cause CONICIT to establish, within CONICIT; and
(ii)
thereafter maintain and cause CONICIT to maintain; (A) a board of 
directors responsible for policy and 
technical decisions in the 
implementation of Parts A and B of the Project and approval of Research 
Subprojects; and (B) a program committee responsible, together 
with such board of directors, for the 
selection of 
Beneficiaries,
such board and program committee to have a structure and functions satisfactory to the 
Bank, and to have qualified members in adequate numbers as required to carry out their 
responsibilities.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish and maintain for purposes of Part D of the 
Project and cause CONICIT to establish for purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project 
within CONICIT, and thereafter maintain, an implementation and management unit with a 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, with qualified staff in adequate 
numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain and cause CONICIT to maintain in respect of Parts A, B and C of 
the Project policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, and cause CONICIT to prepare in respect of Parts A, B and C of 
the Project, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish and cause 
CONICIT in respect of its parts of the Project to furnish to the Bank, on or about 
June 30 each year, commencing June 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of their respective parts of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review, and cause CONICIT to review, with the Bank: (i) by August 30 each 
year, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section; and (ii) by August 30, 2001 in addition to the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, the effectiveness of the selection 
procedures for Beneficiaries, the status of the research activities being carried out 
under Research Subprojects, and any bottlenecks in the implementation of such 
research; and
(d)
thereafter take, and cause CONICIT to take, all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reviews and the 
Page  7
Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the Project, and cause 
CONICIT to carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project, in accordance with an 
operational manual satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), said manual to 
include, inter alia:
(a)
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation, of the 
Project (including the procurement and financial requirements thereof);
(b)
criteria for selection of Beneficiaries and Research Subprojects;
(c)
requirements for implementation of Research subprojects, including 
standards, satisfactory to the Bank, for environmentally sound laboratory practices 
and disposal of hazardous materials; and
(d)
model forms for the Grant Agreements. 
Section 3.07.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause CONICIT to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to all parts of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CONICIT:
(i)
to have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of 
each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Page  8
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause CONICIT:
(i)
to maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
to retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
to enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
to ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether 
the Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order 
to enable the Borrower, not later than January 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project , both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and 
(B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of 
this Section, the Borrower shall, and shall cause CONICIT to:
(a)
have the procurement of goods, works and services carried out under the 
Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan twice a year audited by private 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
three months after the end of each such semester the report of such procurement audit, 
Page  9
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the CONICIT Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and CONICIT;
(b)
the S & T Ministry and CONICIT have established the board of directors 
and program committee referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, and the IMU; 
(c)
the S & T Ministry and CONICIT have appointed the IMU’s executive 
director and deputy director;
(d)
the Borrower has implemented the Financial Management Action Plan;
(e)
the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower and approved by 
the Bank; and
(f)
the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank the procurement plans for 
the first six months of the Project referred to in Schedule 4, Section I, Part C.1 and 
Section II, Part D.1 of this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the CONICIT Implementation 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CONICIT and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and CONICIT in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date May 16, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Avenida Urdaneta
Esquina de Carmelitas
Edificio Sede
Caracas 1010
Venezuela
Telex:
Facsimile:
24215 HDACP
8022031
Page  10
8021893
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By /s/ Carlos Genatios Sequera
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ John Redwood
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Part A:
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants for Research
  3,475,000
50% of the amounts
Subprojects
disbursed under each
Grant Agreement
(2)
Goods for Parts B, C
    75,000
50%
and D of the Project
Page  11
(3)
Consultants’ services
 1,150,000
50%
and training for Parts B,
C and D of the Project
(4)
Operating Expenditures
   250,000
50%
(5)
Fee
    50,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Operating Expenditures” means the 
cost of office supplies and materials, utilities, travel and rent of office space of 
the IMU, the board of directors, and program committee referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000 may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 15, 2000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods and works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent 
each;
(b)
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each;
(c)
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $35,000 
equivalent each; and
(d)
training and operating expenditures,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Part B:
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account, in a 
bank or other financial institution satisfactory to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
Page  12
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  13
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $250,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed $500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
Page  14
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed $1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to demonstrate the effectiveness of transparent, 
merit-based allocation procedures and investigator autonomy in improving the quality 
and efficiency of scientific research and training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Competitive Fund for Scientific Excellence
Operation of a competitive fund (the Competitive Fund) for the provision of 
grants to Beneficiaries for scientific research and training.
Part B:
Networking for the Promotion of Scientific Excellence
Carrying out of networking for scientific collaboration, and outreach activities 
to disseminate the benefits of quality research to potential collaborators and 
benefactors such as students, fellow researchers and/or partners from business and 
industries, such as: (a) visits to international science and technology institutions; 
(b) design and delivery of post graduate courses; (c) exchange programs for 
researchers and graduate and post-doctoral students; and (d) dissemination workshops.
Part C:
Project Management
Establishment and operation within CONICIT of a board of directors and program 
committee for the oversight of implementation of Parts A and B of the Project and a 
Project implementation and management unit for implementation of all parts of the 
Project.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Development of a proposal to improve the Borrower’s institutional framework for 
science and technology research and training, including (i) the introduction of 
incentives for the formation of quality researchers and support to research and 
development in priority technological areas, and (ii) the improvement of CONICIT’s 
systems for funding research activities taking into account the results of research 
and training activities financed by the Competitive Fund.
2.
Carrying out of studies (including surveys) for the monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Page  15
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
      Dollars)
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2005
       250,000
through April 15, 2015
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines, issuing standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, and the 
following special provisions:
(a)
Estimates of the cost of goods to be supplied or works carried out shall 
not be published nor used as a basis for disqualification of bids.
(b)
Non-compliance by the Borrower of the deadline for award shall not 
invalidate the bidding.
(c)
In the procurement of goods and works the term specified for submission 
of bids shall not be less than 21 days.
(d)
Any proposed amendments to the bidding documents shall be distributed by 
the Borrower to all bidders in due time for their consideration but not later than 
fifteen days prior to the bid submission date.
(e)
Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of each 
bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any alternative proposals, if they  
have been requested or permitted, shall be read aloud when opened.
(f)
The confidentiality of the parts of the bids so declared by the bidders 
in their respective bids shall be respected by the Borrower at all times.
(g)
The rights set forth in Article 28 of Law 296 shall not be restricted to 
bidders.
(h)
The bid for the procurement of specific goods and/or works shall not be 
fragmented or divided into different contracts at the time of bidding or award.
(i)
Bid awards shall all be published in a local newspaper internet or other 
communication means acceptable to the Bank.
Page  16
(j)
Registration shall not be required from foreign bidders as a condition of 
submission of bids.
(k)
One valid bid shall be deemed sufficient to consider the award of the 
respective contract.
(l)
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid in a 
manner acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank.  Such determination shall be made 
exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria 
stipulated in the bidding documents.  If any factor additional to the amount or 
amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or factors and 
the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of determining the 
lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding documents.  For 
purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used 
as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, 
including correction of arithmetic errors.
(m)
The provisions of Articles 13, 36 through 41 and 103 of Law 296 shall not 
apply.
2.
Shopping
Goods for Parts B and D of the Project estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or 
less, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, and goods for 
Research Subprojects, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for Research Subprojects may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
By not later than the Effective Date and every six months thereafter the 
proposed six month procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plans as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods or works procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in B.1 above, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in B.2 and B.3 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor or the 
Page  17
execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule and the provisions of Law 296 shall not be 
applied in such procurement.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Section, consultants’ 
services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services of individual scientists with specific knowledge required for peer 
review activities which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.9 (d) of these Consultant 
Guidelines may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
 3.
Individual Consultants
Page  18
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines excluding those of fellowship holders and research assistants 
for Research Subprojects and not exceeding in the aggregate $1,000,000 equivalent, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
By not later than the Effective Date, and every six months thereafter, the proposed 
six month plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plans as shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $35,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval.
