Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13402-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FIRST REFERRAL HEALTH SYSTEM PROJECT
NOVEMBER 2, 1994
South Asia Country Department II (India)
Population and Human Resources Operations Division



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of June 1994)
Currency Unit             =            Rupee
Rupee 32.6                =            US$1.00
Rupee 1.0                 =            US$0.03
METRIC EOUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m)               =            3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer               =            0.62 Miles
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



i
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS         Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
AP           Andhra Pradesh
APHMHIDC  AP Health & Medical Housing Infrastructure Development
Corporation
APVVP        Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad
ASCI         Administrative Staff College of India
CHC          Community Health Center
CSSM         Child Survival & Safe Motherhood Project
DALY         Disability Adjusted Life Years
EMTC         Equipment Maintenance and Training Center
FW           Family Welfare
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOAP         Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI          Government of India
HIV          Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HMIS         Health Management Information System
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICDS I       First Integrated Child Development Services Project
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Education and Communication
IPP 6        Sixth India Population Project
IPP 8        Eight India Population Project
ISHA         Indian Society of Health Administrators
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MCH          Maternal and Child Health
MIS          Management Information System
MOHFW        Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GOI
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NHP          National Health Policy
NSS          National Sample Survey
PAR          Performance Audit Report
PCR          Project Completion Report
PHC          Primary Health Center
PHN          Population, Health and Nutrition
PHR          Population & Human Resources
PWD          Public Works Department
SC           Scheduled Castes
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
ST           Scheduled Tribes
STD          Sexually Transmitted Disease
SUBC         Subcenter
TB           Tuberculosis
UIP          Universal Immunization Program
WDR          World Development Report
WHO          World Health Organization






ii
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FIRST REFERRAL HEALTH SYSTEM PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT & PROJECT SUMMARY ......................... v
I.  STATE/SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Health Sector in India.                                                                                        1
B. The State of Andhra Pradesh.                                                                                   2
C. Health Sector Issues.                                                                                          7
D. Lessons from Experience.                                                                                       9
E.   Linkages with other PHN Projects in Andhra Pradesh .11
F.    Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement .13
II.   THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives  ........................ 15
B.   Approach ........................ 16
C.    The Reform Program  ................................. 16
D.   Project Description  ........................ 20
III.  PROJECT COST. FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.   Project Costs ........................ 24
B.       Financing Plan  ..................................... 27
C.  Procurement Arrangements ......................... 28
D. Disbursement Profile .31
E.  Status of Project Preparation .32
F. Implementation Plan .33
G.  Recurrent Cost and Sustainability .34
H. Indigenous Populations .35
I.  Environmental Aspects .36
J. Land Acquisition .36
K. Accounting and Auditing .36
This report is based on an appraisal mission that visited India in May 1994. The mission comprised Tawhid Nawaz (Senior Economist and
mission leader), Indra Pathmanathan (Public Health Specialist), Christopher Potter and Pradeep Kakkar (Management Consultants and IEC
Specialists), David Porter (Equipment and Support Services Consultant), Sajitha Bashir (Economist Consultant), Shreelata Rao-Seshadri (Social
Issues Consultant), Eid Dib (Procurement Specialist and Architect Consultant), Subash Chakravarthy (Architect Consultant) and Anthony
Measham (Advisor). Salim Habayeb (Senior Public Health Physician) and Dean Jamison (Director, University of California, Los Angeles,
Center for Pacific Rim Studies) contributed during project preparation. Kevin Casey (Procurement Specialist and Architect) contributed on
procurement aspects. Nischint Bhatnagar assisted in the preparation of this document. The peer reviewers were Willy De Geyndt (ASTHR)
and Jagadish Upadhyay (EA2HR). The Project is endorsed by Richard Skolnik, Chief, Population and Human Resources Operations Division,
and Heinz Vergin, Director, India Country Department.



iii
Page No.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS
A.    Benefits  ......................................... 37
B.  Program Objective Categories.37
C.    Risks ........................................... 38
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .............. 39



iv
Page No.
TABLES
1.1         Lessons Applied From IDA Experience in PHN Lending
to the Proposed Project .............................. 10
2.1         Linkages with Other PHN Projects in AP ................... 12
3.1         Cost By Component ................................ 25
3.2         Cost By Categories of Expenditure ....................... 26
3.3         Procurement Arrangements  ........................... 29
3.4         Estimated Expenditures and Disbursements .................. 31
ANNEXES
Annex 1      Project Costs    .................................... 42
Annex 2      Health Sector Development Policy Program in Andhra Pradesh  ....   . 50
Annex 3     Public Expenditures on the Health Sector in Andhra Pradesh ......    . 55
Annex 4     Cost Recovery    ................ ................... 64
Annex 5      Organization and Management System of APVVP  .. ....... .  .  .   . 71
Annex 6     Workforce Issues   ................ .................. 85
Annex 7     Clinical and Diagnostic Service Norms at APVVP Hospitals ..... .    . 111
Annex 8     Clinical Training: Improving Quality and Effectiveness  ....... .  .    . 124
Annex 9      Equipment Norms for APVVP Hospitals .... .......... .  .  .  .   . 131
Annex 10    Equipment Maintenance and Training Services at APVVP Hospitals  . . 137
Annex 11    Strengthening Referral and Support for Primary Care  ........ .  .    . 149
Annex 12    Quality Assurance Program in APVVP Hospitals . . ......... .  .    . 155
Annex 13   Information, Education and Communication Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . 160
Annex 14    Tribal Strategy ................................... 164
Annex 15    Summary of Construction Program        ..170
Annex 16  Procurement Arrangements    ..187
Annex 17  Implementation Plan            ..198
Annex 18  Performance Indicators    ..208
Annex  19    Supervision  Plan   .................................. 232
Annex 20    Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements   .      .236
Annex 21    Documents Available in Project File    ..237






v
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FIRST REFERRAL HEALTH SYSTEM PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         India, acting by its President
Beneficiarv:       State of Andhra Pradesh
Amount:           IDA Credit SDR 90.7 million (US$133.0 million equivalent)
Poveriy:           One of the main objectives of the Project is to provide better quality and
greater access to health care services to improve the health status of poor
and underserved people including women, scheduled tribes and scheduled
castes. The project contains specific strategies for interventions targeted
for these groups.
Terms:             IDA Standard with 35 years maturity
On-lending terms:   The Government of India would make the proceeds of the Credit available
to the State of Andhra Pradesh (AP) under standard arrangements for
development assistance to the States of India. GOI would assume foreign
exchange risk.
Description:      The ultimate goal of the project would be to improve the health status of
the people of AP, especially the poor and the underserved, by reducing
mortality and morbidity. The objectives of the project would be to assist
the Government of AP (GOAP) to:  (i) improve efficiency in the
allocation and use of health resources through policy and institutional
development; and (ii) improve system performance of health care through
improvements in quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services at
the first referral or secondary level to better serve the neediest sections of
society. The project would include three components:
Institutional Strengthening through Policy Reform and the
Development of Implementation Capacity. (i) Improving the
institutional framework  by:  strengthening  sectoral capacity  for
development of policy; implementing cost recovery mechanisms; and
improving sectoral resource allocation. (ii) Strengthening institutions and
their implementation capacity at Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad
(APVVP) and communitv. area, and district hospitals by: improving
capacity for project implementation through the strengthening of



vi
management capacity and structure and through the provision of training;
enhancing capacity for equipment management and maintenance, and
procurement of goods and services; strengthening monitoring and
evaluation capacity including improvement of the hospital management
information system and improving supervision of civil works;
Improving Quality, Access and Effectiveness of Services at District
Hospitals. (i) Renovating 21 district hospitals. (ii) Upgrading clinical
effectiveness and quality at district hospitals by: updating and applying
norms and standards for clinical, technical and support services; instituting
quality assessment mechanisms; enhancing staff skills in clinical and
technical areas; providing updated equipment and material; and expanding
capacity of support services.
Improving Quality, Access and Effectiveness of Services at Area and
Community Hospitals. (i) Renovating/extending 49 area hospitals and 80
community hospitals. (ii) Upgrading clinical effectiveness and guality at
area and community hospitals by: updating and applying norms and
standards for clinical, technical and support services; instituting quality
assessment mechanisms; enhancing staff skills in clinical and technical
areas; providing updated equipment and material; and expanding capacity
of support services. (iii) Improving functioning of referral by: improving
linkages and referral between different levels and with the private sector;
strengthening management of the referral system; implementing referral
and clinical management protocols; and establishing an incentive system
for users and staff. The project would finance civil works, equipment and
furniture, vehicles, medical/laboratory and other supplies, medicines,
professional services, training, studies and evaluations, and incremental
salaries and costs on a declining basis.
Benefits:           First, the policy reforms envisaged under the project would improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of health care services. The strengthening of
AP's first referral health system would optimize resource use, avoid
duplication and waste and reduce overcrowding at tertiary facilities.
Second, improvements in the health status of the people of AP would
ultimately increase the potential earning capacity of the poor by reducing
mortality, morbidity and disability. Third, strengthening first referral
hospitals and making them more client-friendly would also encourage
patients to seek timely care resulting in higher cure rates at lower costs.
Fourth, the project would help regulate and reduce patient flow to the
tertiary hospitals, where treatment per patient is more expensive. Fifth,
the strengthening and upgrading of the secondary level would lend vital
support and credibility to the primary health care system for implementing
the various national and vertical health programs, and for providing basic



vii
health care in rural areas. Finally, an adequately functioning first referral
health system would strengthen linkages with private health care through
improved functioning of referral mechanisms.
Risks:              Institutional: Since this would be the first project to reorient the health
system of a state in India, the capacity of existing institutions to undertake
systemic improvements and establish a more rational health delivery
system has not been tested in India. The institutional strengthening aspects
that are in-built in the project would reduce this risk. These institutional
aspects include: strengthening the strategic planning capacity in the
Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare; enhancing APVVP's
implementation capacity through strengthening its management structure,
systems and procedures, culture of service delivery, resources and
training; and enhancing the capacity of the Infrastructure Development
Corporation to undertake supervision monitoring of the construction
program. Financial: Potential hurdles to instituting user charges may be
faced by the state government because of the politically sensitive nature
of the issue. The state government has reiterated its commitment through
a letter on Health Sector Policy that it would institute user charges while
protecting those who cannot afford to pay. The on-going study on the
burden of disease and cost-effectiveness would provide an empirical basis
to determine appropriate user charges giving the government greater
flexibility and better information for charging user fees. The overall
financial status of the state is a risk in terms of the adequacy of funds
allocated to the health sector, especially allocations to the secondary level
of health care. The government of AP, through a Health Sector Policy
letter, has committed to providing sufficient resources to meet the
financial needs generated by the project.



viii
Estimated Project Cost:
Component                                   Local          Foreign       Total
-------------------US$ Million-------------------
Institutional Strengthening                   3.8             0.3          4.1
Improve Quality, Access and Effectiveness    46.5             8.5         55.0
at District Hospitals
Improve Quality, Access and Effectiveness    63.5            14.5         78.0
at Area and Community Hospitals
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                        113.8            23.3        137.1
Physical Contingencies                        9.9             2.3         12.2
Price Contingencies                           7.8             1.9          9.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         131.5            27.5        159.0
' Including taxes and duties estimated at US$ 8.8 million equivalent
Financing Plan:                             Local          Foreign       Total
-------------------US$ Million-------------------
GOAP                                         26.0             0          26.0
IDA                                         105.5            27.5        133.0
Total                                       131.5            27.5        159.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal year
--------------------------------US $ Million---------------------------------
FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98          FY99    FY00       FY01      FY02
Annual       4.0    9.3    15.8   21.4        21.2     21.2     31.9        8.2
Cumulative    4.0    13.3   29.1   50.5       71.7    92.9      124.8     133.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable.



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FIRST REFERRAL HEALTH SYSTEM PROJECT
I. STATE/SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Health Sector in India
1.1      Introduction. Health is a critical investment for improving the level of
human resource development and economic growth. While life expectancy at birth in
India has increased from about 44 to 60 years during the past thirty years, key health
indicators show that the health status of its people is low. Birth and death rates are still
high at 29.3 and 9.8 respectively, as is the infant mortality rate of 80 per thousand live
births; communicable diseases including tuberculosis (TB), malaria and leprosy continue
to be major public health problems; Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection is
rising; maternal mortality is high; acute respiratory and diarrheal diseases continue to be
the major causes of child mortality; and preventable mortality and morbidity, especially
among the poor, extract a high toll on the society. Moreover, with the changing age
composition of the population towards an increasing fraction of older people, India is
moving into an epidemiological transition with the double burden of significant
communicable diseases and increasing non-communicable conditions such as
cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes and cataract blindness. Thus, improving the
health status of its 846 million people (1991 census), and meeting the health needs of a
population that is increasing by 17 million annually presents a major challenge for India.
1.2       Health Policy. India's public policy for health has been based on an implicit
assumption that primary health care is a basic right to which people should not be denied
access due to inability to pay or for other socio-economic reasons. A major thrust of the
Government's health policy in the late 1970s and 1980s was the development of publicly
financed and managed universal basic health service infrastructure. The Government's
long term strategy as enunciated in the National Health Policy (NHP) of 1983 is to give
high priority to the control of fertility, infectious diseases of public health importance,
and preventable causes of maternal and childhood mortality and morbidity. It includes
quantified targets for the 1990s and the year 2000. With the exception of childhood
immunization, current achievements already lag behind these targets. The NHP
emphasizes the role of the state in providing basic universal health care through the
development of publicly run health facilities and draws attention to the strengthening of
cooperation between the public and private sectors. The Eighth Plan (1992-1997) has
identified health as one of the six priority areas, and public investments in health are
therefore critical for human resource development and poverty alleviation in India.



2
1.3       Health Care Delivery in India. In 1991, total health spending in India
accounted for about 6 percent of GDP, or about US$13 per capita per year. Of this,
government contribution including center, states and municipalities accounts for about
1.3% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) or about US$2.7 per capita (22 percent of total
health spending). Within the government spending category, states spend about 87
percent and the center spends about 10 percent, excluding external assistance; and
municipalities and external assistance account for the remaining 3 percent. While India
spends about an equal percent of its income on health as other Asian countries at similar
levels of per capita income, the percentage of government spending on health is actually
lower in India than in those Asian countries. Furthermore, a large component of public
spending on health is directed towards tertiary care and medical education, and on public
health interventions that are not the highest priority. Therefore, the total amount of
resources, both public and private, available for high priority, cost-effective health
services, is small.
B. The State of Andhra Pradesh
1.4       General Features. AP is situated in South India and extends from the east
coast to the Deccan plateau. The state has 23 districts spread across three distinct
geographical regions: Coastal Andhra, which is the most developed region in the state,
consists of large coastal plains and fertile deltas; Rayalseema, which is the most drought
prone; and Telengana in the interior, which is the least developed region in terms of
social development. In 1991, AP's population was 66.3 million. It is the fifth most
populous state in India. A majority of the state's population live in the rural areas (73 %),
while the urban population (27%) resides in 250 urban towns and cities. About 16% of
the state's population belong to scheduled castes (SC) and 6.3 % to scheduled tribes (ST);
the scheduled tribe population is high in the three districts of Adilabad (17%) and
Visakhapatnam and Warangal (14%). According to the 1991 population census, the
literacy rate among the population aged seven years and above was about 45 percent (56
percent for males and 34 percent for females). The percentage of population living below
the GOI poverty line was estimated to be 38 percent.
1.5       Health Status and Epidemiology. AP is a representative Indian state and is
about the national average in terms of health status and epidemiological profile. The birth
rate at 28, death rate at 8.7 and the infant mortality rate at 80 per thousand live births,
are similar to the national averages. State level hospital data in AP show that about 70%
of the causes of death in 1990 were attributable to: disorders in the nervous and
circulatory systems (20%), respiratory disorders (16%), maternity and infancy related
causes (11%), accidents and injuries (10%), digestive disorders (mainly diarrhea, 7 %)
and various types of fevers (6%). A recent analysis of patient registers at primary health
centers (PHCs) shows that the common diseases for which treatment was sought by tribal
adults were respiratory infections, malaria, alimentary diseases and aches and pains. For
tribal children, the common ailments were gastro-enteritis, respiratory infection, malaria,
scabies and skin infections.



3
1.6        Organization of the Public Health Care System. The public health system
in AP consists of three tiers. At the bottom are primary health care facilities where basic
health services are provided, with emphasis on preventive and promotive aspects such
as family planning, maternal and child health (MCH), treatment of minor ailments,
malarial treatment and spraying, sanitation, and public health education. The management
of this level of health care is under the Directorate of Health Services, except for family
planning and MCH services which are under the Directorate of Family Welfare. In the
middle are the first line referral hospitals or secondary level hospitals, consisting of
hospitals of various bed strengths, ranging between 30 and 350 beds, at the community,
area and district levels.' These secondary hospitals provide inpatient and outpatient care
with diagnostic and treatment facilities not available at the primary level. They are
managed by the APVVP which was established through a legislative enactment in 1986
to improve the functioning of secondary level facilities. APVVP's objectives are to
provide access to adequate patient care in rural areas, reduce pressures on the
overstretched tertiary hospitals and mobilize resources from the market as a supplement
to state budgetary allocations to improve, upgrade and maintain secondary level
institutions. APVVP is a Government agency reporting to the Government through the
Secretary, Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare. While APVVP functions
in effect like a Directorate within the Department of Health, Medical and Family
Welfare, the use of a corporate vehicle provides significant potential for improved
efficiency in contracting, disbursement and management matters as well as in providing
increased non-governmental participation in the health sector. The flexible organizational
structure of APVVP has not been adequately utilized in the past. The proposed project
would make it possible to fully use the organizational flexibility assigned to APVVP
through investments in first referral or secondary hospitals. At the top of the health
structure are the tertiary, including teaching hospitals, which are staffed and equipped
to provide more specialized treatments and generally having a capacity exceeding 500-
600 beds. They are managed by the Directorate of Medical Education.
1.7        In addition to the three major Directorates mentioned above, five smaller
Directorates report to the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare. These
include those that manage the AIDS program, Preventive Medicine, Employees State
Insurance, Indian System of Medicine and Drug Control. These Directorates have smaller
budgets, resources and staff compared to the three major Directorates and APVVP.
1.8        Availability of Health Services.  In 1994, the AP Government has the
following facilities. At the primary level, there are: 10,555 subcenters (SUBCs), 1,306
primary health centers (PHCs), 175 community health centers (CHCs) and 45 mobile
units. At the secondary or first referral level, there are 150 community, area and district
First referral or secondary hospitals consist of community hospitals that have a bed strength of about 30-50
beds, area hospitals that have about 75-100 beds and district hospitals that have about 250-350 beds. The level of
services offered increase from community to area to districts hospitals. The services that will be offered at each
level are shown in Annex 7.



4
hospitals and 22 dispensaries. The community hospitals are located in rural and remote
areas of the state, the area hospitals in smaller towns, the district hospitals mostly at
district headquarters and urban centers and the dispensaries are located in urban areas.
At the tertiary level there are 38 tertiary hospitals attached to 9 medical colleges, and 2
super specialized hospitals. In addition, there are in the state 23 district TB centers, 25
TB clinics, and 194 leprosy control units which straddle the primary and secondary
levels. The main shortcoming in the provision of services is at the secondary level, which
cannot provide the critical support needed at the primary level because of technical and
other weaknesses discussed below. The number of beds at secondary hospitals in the
public sector is inadequate relative to the size of the state's population. Indian Planning
Commission norms based on demographic factors suggest that 70% of all public hospital
beds should be at secondary level facilities. Secondary hospitals in AP in fact account for
only 32% of the total number of beds at public facilities. In 1994, there are 9,651 beds
at secondary hospitals (0.15 beds per 1,000 population) out of a total of 30,624 beds in
the public sector (0.46 beds per 1,000 population). If the Indian Planning Commission
norms were to be complied with then there would need to be a sizeable increase in bed
strength at secondary level facilities, some of this at the cost of beds at tertiary facilities.
1.9       In addition, there has been a significant growth of private sector facilities in
recent years. It is estimated that there are over 2,100 private hospitals providing about
42,000 beds (0.63 beds per 1,000 population). There are an estimated 1,100 practitioners
of Indian system of medicine providing health care services to about 2-3% of the
population. The private sector therefore comprises wide range of health providers,
ranging from the household doctors in the villages to the corporate sector in the cities
and charitable hospitals and dispensaries. However, many of these providers are
unqualified, licensing is weak or non-existent, quality is varied and the services offered
do not cover communicable diseases which afflict the poor, and they cost far in excess
of those provided by the public sector.
1.10       In terms of the total number of beds that would be required to service the
state's population, the Indian Planning Commission's demographic criterion of 0.67
hospital beds per population of 1,000 people in the public sector would suggest that there
is a shortage of about 12,000 beds. It is, however, more relevant to use a criteria based
on the epidemiological profile or burden of disease in AP in considering the total number
of hospital beds required to service the state's population. Project preparation estimated
the total number of beds required for AP on the basis of burden of disease and illness
episode criteria. The analysis provided evidence that a shift in bed strength towards non-
communicable diseases as indicated by recent data on the Survey of Causes of Death was
needed. This analysis, using the burden of disease approach, estimated that about 90,000
beds would be required to provide adequate level of clinical services for the population
of AP. Given that there are about 42,000 beds at private hospitals and about 30,624 beds
at public hospitals in AP, there is still a sizeable deficit of about 17,000 beds overall.
The private sector would be able to fill some of the gap, but private facilities are not
available everywhere and some of the critical services dealing with communicable



5
diseases which, disproportionately affect the poor, are not provided by private facilities.
The increase in bed strength at public facilities under the project will fill some of the
gaps left by the non-availability of private services.
1.11      Utilization of Health Services. The national sample survey (NSS) utilization
data from the 42nd round show that an overwhelming majority of households utilized the
allopathic system of medicine both for hospitalization (98%) as well as for ambulatory
care (96%). The preference for allopathic system was universal and not influenced by
household characteristics such as income, social class or literacy. With regard to
preference for type of hospital, the usage of public health facilities does not appear to be
very high despite the presence of a fairly extensive public health infrastructure. This is
true both for hospitalization, where public facilities accounted for 37% of utilization in
rural and 47% in urban areas as well as for ambulatory care where public facilities
accounted for 16% of utilization in rural and 19% in urban areas. The use of private
hospitals was more common for hospitalization (55 % for rural and 47 % for urban areas),
while the use of private doctors was more common for ambulatory care (47% in rural
and 38% in urban areas). Among ST households, utilization of public hospitals were
much higher (62%) compared to other groups (55%); however, ST households choose
private practitioners much less (36%) compared to other household groups. The relatively
low level of utilization of public facilities among the general population is largely because
of poor access to public facilities, poor quality of services provided and unavailability
of staff, drugs and essential supplies.
1.12      Of the 40% who used government hospitals, about two-thirds belonged to the
lower four strata of the decile groups. Government facilities were used mainly for
treatment of communicable diseases. About 98% of government services were free
(although there were indirect costs to the individual) compared to only 7% of services
in the private sector. Of the kinds of ailment treated by the private sector, preliminary
analysis suggest that 35% of cases treated were related to childbirth, 30-40% were fevers
and injuries and 20-30% were for surgery.
1.13      Public Health Expenditure. The public health care component of the budget
in AP at Rs. 5 billion represents about 5.6% of the total state revenue budget and 5.1 %
of the total state revenue and capital budget. The share of health in the revenue budget
declined from 5.8% to 5.6% between FY92 and FY95. The Government provided the
rationale that the relatively low share of public expenditures for the health sector in AP
is that, because of historical reasons, a large share of public expenditure has been
absorbed by the irrigation and drainage sectors. Although this share has declined in
recent years, the power sector now absorbs a large share of current allocations. Annual
public health expenditure is only 1.3% of the state's Net Domestic Product, which is
about the average for India as a whole (Annex 3).
1.14      In FY92, a large share of public health expenditures in AP was allocated to
the provision of primary health care services, the largest component of which included



6
expenditures on Family Welfare (20%) and programs for the prevention and eradication
of communicable diseases (17%). Analysis of the composition of public expenditures on
health during the last decade highlights the budgetary emphasis on primary health care.
The share of primary services steadily increased from 46% in FY81 to a peak of 56%
in FY86, after which it declined to about 49% in FY90.
1.15      Hospital services exhibited a consistent and significant reduction in their
share of expenditures from about 41 % in FY81 to about 34% in FY90. This analysis of
subsectoral allocations highlights some important issues. First, the allocation of
expenditures for hospital services is relatively low in AP, compared to other low income
countries. Only 4 countries in the 29 countries reviewed by Barnum and Kutzin (1993)
spent less than 40% of their health budget on hospital services. Second, allocations to
hospital services in AP have been adversely affected even in years when the overall
health budget has grown, whereas allocations to primary health care services were
vulnerable to reductions only in years when the overall health budget was constrained.
Third, resource allocations within the hospital sector are skewed in favor of tertiary level
hospitals. During the last decade, the allocation of total public resources for the hospital
sector between secondary and tertiary level hospitals has been in the ratio of 51:49
respectively. The norms recommended by the Indian Planning Commission is a ratio of
67:33 in favor of secondary level hospitals. Moreover, the tertiary sector received two-
thirds of plan resources allocated to the hospital sector and claimed a greater share of
incremental resources.
1.16      The budgetary allocation to APVVP reflects almost all of the government's
funding support to secondary hospitals. Currently almost the entire expenditure of
APVVP is financed by grants-in-aid provided by the state government. These grants
amounted to Rs. 390 million in FY92, Rs. 450 million in FY93 and Rs. 480 million in
FY94. The projected grant for FY95 is Rs. 460 million. Of the total non-plan budget for
the health sector of Rs 2.6 billion in FY92, APVVP received only 15%; this share fell
to 13% in FY94 and to about 12% in the budget estimates of FY95. Plan funds for
APVVP have been negligible -- Rs. 9 million in FY92 and Rs. 11 million in FY93 and
FY94. However, the non-salary recurrent cost budget has been shrinking and the share
of salaries in APVVP has increased from about 67% in FY92 to about 75% in FY95
(Annex 3, Table 5). With a rising share of salaries and total grants remaining constant,
the norms for expenditure on drugs, supplies and other consumables have been held
constant in nominal terms. Since price inflation for these commodities have been greater
than average, real expenditures on critical inputs other than personnel has declined
substantially in recent years. During the last two years, even nominal expenditures per
bed for drugs and consumables have declined. APVVP management has tried to protect
expenditures on essential drugs with the result that expenditures on supplies, diet and
maintenance activities have also suffered during this period.
1.17      Hence, the main conclusion is that the low level of funding for secondary
hospitals is due to three factors: the small share of health as a percentage of overall



7
public spending; the small share of hospital spending as a percentage of health spending;
and a skewed distribution of funds within the hospital sector in favor of the tertiary
hospitals (Annex 3). As a result of this weak support to the secondary or first referral
level, the secondary system up to the district hospital level has been unable to provide
adequate support to the primary health care system.
C. Health Sector Issues
1.18       Allocation of Resources. As discussed above, public resources allocated to
the health sector are inadequate to meet basic health care needs, and these resources at
1.3 % of state Net Domestic Product are low when compared to several Asian countries
with similar levels of per capita income. Moreover, within the health sector, secondary
hospitals have been continuously neglected at the expense of tertiary care and
underfunding has resulted in shortage of drugs and essential supplies, lack of maintenance
of equipment, shortage of doctors and medical personnel.
1.19       Management and Planning. Overall, the health sector in AP suffers from a
low level of efficiency and there are few incentives for hospitals to improve their
performance. Two important reasons for this are weak management at all levels and lack
of an effective planning capacity. Administrative responsibility and financial
accountability are artificially separated between the related agencies. For example, while
accountability for running the institutions lies with the hospital superintendents, key
decisions on manpower development, procurement of drugs and essential supplies,
extension of facilities, and mobilization and allocation of resources for maintenance
purposes, are made at the different Directorates of the Department of Medical, Health
and Family Welfare. Considerable improvements are needed in planning and management
aspects with respect to first referral facilities. Moreover, there is a need to develop a
strategic planning capacity to analyze the epidemiological profile and the burden of
disease, cost-effective means of achieving the best use of limited resources and the
medical manpower situation as well as monitor and guide the development of the private
health sector.
1.20       Ouality of Services. Secondary hospitals in AP continue to face operational
deficiencies and are functioning poorly due to lack of non-salary recurrent funds. Support
services and infrastructure at secondary hospitals are inadequate. There are shortages
of diagnostic facilities, equipment for performing laboratory procedures, safe blood
supply, communications network, transport facilities, trained personnel, and repair and
maintenance services for machinery and equipment. In order to provide better quality of
services at existing facilities, adequate measures need to be instituted so that operational
funds are available at each facility. There is also a critical need to update equipment,
establish norms on a range of clinical and support services and provide in-service training
in clinical, equipment, and management skills.



8
1.21       The quality of services is also affected because of the absenteeism of doctors
and other medical staff in less developed areas of the state. Incentives need to be
provided to doctors, nurses and other medical staff for relocating to remote and tribal
areas of the state and for encouraging them to stay in their post for the duration of their
assignment. These incentives could be in the form of suitable accommodations,
preferential admissions for children of doctors resident in tribal areas in government-run
residential schools and places for them in schools for scheduled tribes and scheduled
castes, transfer to an urban area after 4-5 years of service, regular and paid home leaves,
enhanced promotion or training opportunities and training scholarship after a successful
tour of duty. The AP Tribal Health Service, created in 1994, already provides for
doctors recruited for this service to be formalized into regular service after 4-5 years in
tribal areas.
1.22       Referral System. The referral system in AP, as in the rest of India, does not
function well. Institutional and technical linkages between different tiers are weak and
each tier operates as an independent entity, often providing similar levels of care. As
a result resource utilization is poor. It is estimated that a third of all cases which are
currently treated at tertiary facilities could be adequately treated, and at lower costs, at
the secondary level facilities if those facilities were properly equipped and staffed.
Moreover, the lower tier institutions such as PHCs are often underutilized due to lack
of support on technical matters, such as treatment and diagnosis strategies, from
secondary level institutions because of technical weaknesses at those institutions.
Mechanisms for improving the access of remote and disadvantaged groups to secondary
and higher levels of health care by making the referral system more timely, effective and
client-friendly, need to be formulated; clinical skills in secondary hospitals need to
updated and upgraded; technical support for the primary level of care needs to be
strengthened; and a quality assurance program in secondary level hospitals need to be
provided to monitor and improve quality in technical areas.
1.23       Access. At the referral level, access to health care and service delivery is
weak. To comply with the government's norms and all the needs of the people, especially
the underserved population, sufficient resources are not available. However, a balanced
increase in capacity, bed strength and quality of services at the secondary or first referral
level would make a significant impact on the health status of the poorer population and
those living in least developed areas of the state.
1.24       Disparities exist between the urban and rural parts of the state with respect
to access to health facilities and service quality. The urban based secondary hospitals tend
to be overcrowded, especially the outpatient facilities, and operate at near full capacity,
whereas some of the remote rural facilities remain underutilized because they are unable
to provide even basic services. The low demand for health care services at remote rural
facilities is due to the poor quality of services. Difficulties of posting doctors, nurses and
other medical professional in remote areas, unavailability of drugs and shortage of supply
and difficult upkeep of medical equipment add to the problem. As a result, access is



9
unavailable to a large number of the poor who have limited means of obtaining critical
health care services in city hospitals and private nursing homes. Such services, which are
not provided at primary health care facilities, but should be at secondary level facilities
include dental, ophthalmic, orthopedic, pediatric and surgical services.
1.25       Role of the Private Sector.  The role of the private sector in delivering
quality health care continues to be underdeveloped despite substantial private investment.
Recent sector work shows that private sector services are of very varied quality and are
provided by a wide range of qualified, less-than-qualified and unqualified practitioners
(para 1.9). Many are unregistered, unlicensed and unregulated. Lack of regulations and
effective legal remedies contributes to inappropriate practices. AP government's ability
to monitor, regulate, register and certify private care providers is weak and needs to be
strengthened. The Government should be able to assess the quality of services provided
by private care practitioners and evaluate regulations relating to such improvements in
service quality. Moreover, private primary care providers could be better utilized to treat
many diseases that are of high priority such as TB, malaria, STDs, diarrheas, respiratory
infections and high risk births. The state government could provide incentives and
schemes to finance, train and integrate private providers in case-finding, referral
treatment and monitoring for these priority problems. More contracting out of services
to the private sector where possible, especially support services, could be done to cut
costs and increase efficiency. Private voluntary organizations could also be encouraged
by the government to participate in behavior changing education activities, particularly
in tribal areas.
D. Lessons From Experience.
1.26       This is the first project in India that involves the health system at the state
level. It is more broadly based than the on-going or completed population, health and
nutrition (PHN) projects in India. Even so, the experience of social sector projects in
India is varied and extensive enough to provide some important lessons for the
preparation and implementation of this project.
1.27       There are four completed  PHN  projects in India for which Project
Completion Reports (PCRs) or Performance Audit Reports (PARs) are available2. These
are the First, Second and Third Population projects and the First Tamil Nadu Integrated
Nutrition project. In addition, the Fourth Population project has also recently been
completed and a draft PCR is available. OED has also recently completed an Impact
2 India: PCR - First Population Project (Cr. 312-IN), May 19, 1981; PPAR No. 3748, December 31,
1981.
India: PCR - Second Population Project (Cr. 981-IN), June 20, 1989; PPAR No. 8896, June 29, 1990.
India: PCR - Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (Cr. 1003-IN), November 26, 1989.
India: PCR - Third Population Project (Cr. 1426-IN), August 25, 1993.



10
Evaluation Report of the Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition project which is available in
draft. Overall, the projects have met an important part of their development objectives.
Population I and II met most of their aims, but did not have any systemic impact on the
Family Welfare program. Population III had significant outcomes in Kerala but not in
Karnataka. Population IV appears to have contributed to very significant improvements
in contraceptive prevalence and reduction in infant mortality. The Tamil Nadu Nutrition
project has been well documented as having a major impact on improving the nutritional
status of young children.
1.28        There are currently thirteen on-going PHN projects in India, and the list
below shows the seven that are now on-going in AP:
*           Health sector: National AIDS Control, National Leprosy Elimination and the
Cataract Blindness Projects;
*           Family Welfare (FW) sector: Population VI, Population VIII and Child
Survival and the Safe Motherhood (CSSM) Projects; and
*           Nutrition sector: First Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS I)
Project.
1.29        Despite many positive outcomes, the completed and ongoing projects have
suffered consistently from a variety of implementation problems. These have included:
late start-up, poor procurement, slow disbursement, frequent management turnover,
untimely and inadequate flow of funds, poor maintenance of buildings and equipment,
and inadequate attention to software and qualitative aspects.
1.30        The design of the proposed project would take account of the concerns and
problem areas identified above as shown in Table 1. 1.
Table 1.1: Lessons Applied From IDA Experience in PHN
Lending to the Proposed Project
Lessons                        Corresponding Action to be Taken             Reference
1.  Inadequate Anention to    At the early state of implementation the following  Para 2.11, 2.14
Management Aspects        actions would be taken: adequate staffing of key  Annexes 5, 6
project management personnel at APVVP;
enhancement of implementation capacity at
APHMHIDC; adequate staffing arrangements at
district, area and community hospitals; strengthening of
management procedures. In addition, a mid-term
review of the management systems would be
undertaken.



11
Lessons                             Corresponding Action to be Taken                     Reference
2.  Slowness in Implementation      Strengthen implementation capacity; detailed          Para 2.10, 3.25, 3.26
and Weak Supervision           implementation plan in place; regular field supervision    Annexes 17, 19
by local consultants included in Supervision Plan.
3.  Poor Maintenance of Building    GOAP will provide adequate resources during project    Policy letter,
and Equipment                  period for operations and maintenance services;       Para 2.8(c), 2.11, 3.29
capacity of Equipment Maintenance and Training
Center (EMTC) to be enhanced.
4.  Untimely and Inadequate Flow    Assurance provided by GOAP that annual review of      Para 3.8, 3.26
of Funds to Project            project expenditures and resource requirements will be
carried out with IDA in order to ensure timely flow of
funds; assurance provided by GOI that it would release
about three months of project expenditure in advance
to GOAP.
5.  Poor Procurement                Procurement arrangements for works and services in    Para 3.9, 3.22
advanced state of preparation; lists of hospitals    Arnex 16, 17
prepared, use of standard bidding documents; first
phase of construction plan completed; equipment lists
prepared and specification lists discussed with IDA.
6.  Inadequate Attention to         Staffing and technical norms at district, area and   Para 2.16, 2.17, 2.18, 3.23,
Qualitative Aspects            community hospitals agreed upon; referral system and    3.24
linkages with primary care services to be established  Annexes 7, 8, 11, 12
according to agreed norms; Clinical training needs
developed; management training needs developed;
quality assurance program developed collaboratively
with clinicians and practitioners from around the state;
benchmarks and monitoring methodology developed
and agreed with borrower.
E. Linkages With Other PHN Projects in AP
1.31          The proposed project would complement and consolidate investments made
by on-going PHN projects in AP by providing policy and implementation coordination
with other health and FW projects. For example, the strengthening of the first level
referral for obstetrics and child care in this project through the provision of essential
clinical and diagnostic services would complement the primary level of services being
provided under Population VI, Population VIII and CSSM projects. The complementary
curative actions that will be strengthened under this project, which are somewhat higher
level interventions than primary care services provided by the on-going projects, will also
improve the health status of women and children. Table 1.2 below shows the linkages
of this project with other PHN projects in AP.



12
Table 1.2: Linkages with Other PHN Proiects in AP
Name of Project          Primary Health Care         Linkages with AP District Health Systems Project
Objectives
Population  VI, VIII    Enhance   service            Child Health: children identified by primary care services as
and CSSM                 delivery for FW, and        suffering from severe stages of diarrheal disease, acute respiratory
s t r e n g t h e n         infection and nutritional disorders will be referred to APVVP
management at the           hospitals for appropriate treatment.
district  and  block        Maternal Health: The CSSM program has identified by name the
level, and slum areas       First Referral Units (FRUs) for the state, most of which are under
o f  H y d e r a b a d;     APVVP management. Mothers identified as having life threatening
s u p p o r t  C h i I d    complications of pregnancy and child birth will be referred to these
Survival  program;          FRUs for appropriate treatment.
e n h a n c e   S a f e     Technical supervision and training: APVVP will improve the quality
M o t h e r h o o d         of care at the primary level through: (a) visits to PHCs by Specialists
Program.                    from the hospitals to conduct clinics for patients who need more
skilled care; and (b) training at APVVP hospitals for upgrading
clinical and technical skills for PHC and SUBC staff; provide on-
going training for medical and paramedical staff from PHCs and
SUBCs.
N a t i o n a I  A I D S    Involve   states  in     AIDS Cell and Empowered Committee promote coordination between
Control                  p  r o  g  r a m            AIDS Program and APVVP. The MIS capability and patient statistics
development.                gathered by APVVP are of vital use to the AIDS project.
Monitor   epidemic;         Surveillance sites or HIV  testing facilities located in APVVP
Sc r e e n   b I o o d;     hospitals to facilitate monitoring of the AIDS epidemic. HIV
logistical support.         screening to be done within blood banks of APVVP hospitals: the
AIDS project provides the kits, training and procedure; APVVP
hospitals provide infrastructure, staffing and support services.
APVVP facilities provide essential logistical support for storage of
equipment, medicines, medical supplies and waste management.
R a i s e   p u b I i c     The [EC component of the AIDS project targets staff of APVVP
awareness;  develop         hospitals for disseminating information. Selected staff of APVVP to
clinical management         be trained by the AIDS project to provide counselling and medical
skills in AIDS and          needs of AIDS patients.
STD control.
National   Leprosy    Multidrug   therapy;           The health infrastructure of APVVP is a channel of treatment and
Eradication              disability  care  and       drug delivery. The staff and hardware provided by the Leprosy
prevention.                 project will function within APVVP  infrastructure, providing
physiotherapy facilities, operation theaters (OT) and lab facilities.
Logistics and MIS.          APVVP facilities provide storage and support services for the
Leprosy project. MIS and statistical support are also provided.
Cataract   Blindness    Expand   service             The Cataract Blindness Control Project is financing dedicated Ots and
Control                  d e I i v e r y   a n d     Blindness wards in district hospitals. APVVP will provide: support
i n s t i t u t i o n a I   staff who will receive specialized training under the Blindness
development.                project; logistical support and storage facilities. The referral system
in APVVP will complement and facilitate the referral of blind
patients to district hospitals for specialist care.
ICDS I                  Strengthen nutrition-        The linkages between ICDS I and the AP Health project are mainly
related   service           through their common link with the CSSM  project, including
delivery.                   registration of pregnant mothers; vaccination of children; and joint
training of field workers.



13
1.32      In addition, international experience has also been considered in the design and
scope of the project. The World Development Report (1993) on Investing in Health suggested
that a broad sectoral approach within a supporting policy environment produces significant
positive results and benefits. It also suggested that a limited package of public health measures
and essential clinical interventions is a top priority for government finance. On the components
of the public health package the list includes: (i) the expanded program on immunization,
including micronutrient supplementation; (ii) school health programs to treat worm infection and
micronutrient deficiencies and to provide health education; (iii) programs to increase public
knowledge about family planning, health and nutrition; (iv) programs to reduce consumption of
tobacco, alcohol and other drugs; and (v) AIDS prevention program with a strong STD
component. On the components of the essential clinical services the list includes: (i) prenatal and
delivery care; (ii) family planning services (these two components together constitute a Safe
Motherhood Program); (iii) management of the sick child; (iv) treatment of TB; (v) case
management of STDs; and (vi) treatment of minor infection and trauma otherwise known as
limited care. This project, in recognizing the specific administrative, burden of disease and
socio-technical issues in India, will provide a number of the services listed above that have so
far not been provided in other IDA financed projects in the PHN sector. It will also set the
institutional structure that can lead to the provision of some of the other services in the future.
F. Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.33      IDA Strategy. The Bank Group's Country Strategy for India (April 21, 1994;
Report No. P-6141-IN) is to support GOI's efforts to provide an enabling environment for
broad-based, efficient private sector-led growth while accelerating the development of human
resources. A major aim of the strategy is to enhance access to quality of basic social services
for the poor and to support well-targeted safety net programs that protect the most vulnerable
groups in Indian society. IDA assistance will focus on raising nutritional levels, reducing
fertility, reducing morbidity and mortality from key endemic diseases; and raising educational
attainments; and special emphasis will be put upon improving access and efficiency and
improving outcomes, as well as strengthening of links between the public and the private and
Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) sectors. The focus will be almost exclusively on the
poor, with special attention to women, Sts and Scs.
1.34      Sectoral Strategy. In the health sector, IDA's strategy is to assist India in reducing
the level of morbidity and mortality through a two-pronged approach. The first is to reduce the
burden of the most significant endemic diseases through national programs such as the AIDS
Control, Leprosy Elimination and the Cataract Blindness projects and the proposed TB and
Malaria projects. The second approach is to strengthen the performance of the health system of
the states by providing more efficient and effective health care which will mostly benefit the
poor segments of society who use it the most. IDA's strategy in the FW sector is complementary
to this approach in that the FW projects are strengthening primary level services through
program support of family planning and MCH services across India by investing in infrastructure
and support services as well as by deepening support for policy change and program adjustment.
The approach to strengthen the performance of the health system will become increasingly
important in the coming years as the epidemiological profile evolves and the need for a dynamic
health care system increases. Strengthening the health system as such will prepare the sector
to deal with the evolving long term burden of disease. The two-pronged strategy thus has the



14
advantage of directly addressing the most significant endemic diseases, and at the same time
strengthening and developing a comprehensive health care system. The basis of this strategy for
the health sector in India is rooted in our dialogue with India, and in our sector work as reflected
in three recent documents: (i) India: Health Sector Financing: Coping with Adjustment,
Opportunities for Reform, (1992); (ii) India: Public Expenditure Review: Health Sector Report
(1993); and (iii) India: Policy and Finance Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care
Services (1994).
1.35       IDA investment in the project is justified for the following reasons. First, the project
would strengthen and upgrade secondary health care facilities without which the primary health
care system cannot implement the various national health programs and provide basic health care
in rural areas. An effective secondary level of care that provides essential clinical services not
provided at the primary level, is critical for providing credibility to the district based health care
system as well as for providing technical support to the entire network of primary health centers.
Second, IDA support is warranted because this project will consolidate the investments made by
a number of other projects, such as the Child Survival and Safe Motherhood (CSSM), Population
VI, Population VIII, AIDS Control and Leprosy Elimination projects and add incremental value
to the overall health care system in AP. For example, the strengthening of the first level referral
for obstetrics and child care in this project through the provision of essential clinical and
diagnostic services would complement the primary level of care actions initiated in Population
VI, Population VIII and CSSM projects. In addition, the actions of the on-going projects with
regard to initiating a referral system from the community to the community hospital level,
providing equipment at the first level referral for obstetrics units and defining the facilities
needed for emergency obstetrics care will be further strengthened under this project. The
complementary actions that will be undertaken by this project, which are somewhat higher level
interventions than those provided at the primary level, will also improve the health status of
women and children. Third, the project is consistent with IDA's strategy of strengthening state
health systems, since it would help the state to: (i) optimize resource use, especially resources
such as medical manpower and diagnostic equipment; (ii) avoid duplication and wastage; and
(iii) reduce overcrowding at tertiary health care institutions. Fourth, the project is in line with
the overall IDA strategy of poverty alleviation in India. The economic rationale is that since the
poor cannot always afford health care that improves their productivity and well-being, public
investment in the health of the poor, such as essential clinical services that will be provided by
the project, can reduce poverty by increasing the earning potential of the poor.
1.36       The reason for selecting AP as the first state to develop a health systems project is
its fairly representative characteristics in terms of income level, poverty, demographic indicators
and epidemiological profile. It is, however, a fairly advanced state by Indian standards in terms
of administrative capabilities. The commitment AP has shown in the preparation of this project
and in introducing systemic strengthening of the health sector makes it likely that the project will
be implemented successfully.



15
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1        The objectives of the project would be to assist the Government of AP to:
(i) improve efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and
institutional development; and (ii) improve systems performance of health care through
improvements in the quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services at the secondary level
to better serve the neediest sections of society. The ultimate goal of the project would be to
improve the health status of the people of AP, especially the poor and the underserved, by
reducing mortality, morbidity and disability. The project would provide a first step towards the
creation of a replicative state model that would subsequently be used to reorient the health
systems in other states in India.
2.2        The achievement of the first objective will be evaluated on the basis of timely
implementation of the policy reforms spelt out in a Health Sector Development Policy Statement
of the Government in Annex 2. These include proposals for enhancing the overall size of the
health budget, redressing the imbalance in public spending between secondary and tertiary levels
of health care, safeguarding the operations and maintenance component of Non-Plan budget
allocations for the secondary level of health care, charging of user fees for hospital services at
the secondary level, contracting out of selected services, enhancing strategic planning capacity
and addressing work force issues.
2.3        The achievement of the second objective will be evaluated on the basis of hospital
activity and efficiency indicators as well as quality, access and effectiveness indicators as shown
in Annex 18 on Performance Indicators and summarized below.
2.4        Hospital activity indicators including turnover rate, bed occupancy and average
length of stay, which are derived from bed occupancy, cumulative inpatient days and admissions
during a given period of time, will be measured against the baseline. Also measured will be
outpatient consultations and outpatients per bed day. Hospital efficiency indicators including the
following will be measured against a baseline: clinical services, such as number of major
surgeries and deliveries and their percentages to admissions during a given time period;
diagnostic services, such as number of imaging and electro-medical tests and their percentages
to admissions during a given time period; non-clinical services such as post-mortems, percentage
of post-operative case fatalities and percentage of infection acquired at the hospital; and
emergency service index measures such as emergency outpatient and entry ratios. These
efficiency measures will be evaluated against the baseline, and compared with the best
performing facilities and against comparable international standards.
2.5        Quality, access and effectiveness indicators including the following will be
measured: staffing, equipment and drug norms met at each facility; inpatient and outpatient
waiting time; patient satisfaction; upgradation of clinical, management and equipment
maintenance skills; awareness among target group of services offered; awareness among doctors
of how the referral system is expected to function; and funds recovered from user charges. Some
of these will be measured against the baseline while others will be measured against the norms
that have been developed in a participatory manner and agreed upon at appraisal.



16
B. Approach
2.6        Taking into account the lessons learnt from past Bank projects in the state, the
project is designed to contribute to the objectives stated in para 2.1 by helping GOAP put in
place a sustainable first referral health system that will provide vital support and credibility to
primary health care services and the rest of the health sector in AP. The state's capacity to
implement such a program would be based on two closely related elements. First, an
organizational structure of preventive and curative aspects of health care at the district level to
integrate primary health care services and first referral facilities. Second, a program of health
sector policy reform to provide the general framework for health sector development.
Accordingly, the project would selectively implement some key sectoral policy reforms
(discussed below) that are essential to developing an efficient and effective health system and
direct physical investments to first referral or secondary health care facilities which are the
weakest link in the system.
C. The Reform Program
2.7        Reform of Institutional Structure. The Government of AP has shown considerable
commitment to improving its health system by establishing a necessary framework to achieve
project objectives. It is ahead of other states in terms of setting up an institutional arrangement
to facilitate greater emphasis for the intensive integrated development of both curative and
preventive aspects of health care, especially to rectify the institutional weaknesses at the
secondary level. As mentioned in para 1.6, this has been done by establishing the APVVP
though a legislative enactment to improve the functioning of the health care facilities at the first
referral level. APVVP's objectives are to provide access to adequate patient care in rural areas,
reduce pressures on the overstretched tertiary hospitals in the cities and mobilize resources from
the market as a supplement to the state budget to improve, upgrade and maintain health care
institutions. This type of an organization, which provides significant potential for improved
efficiency in contracting, disbursement and management matters, is innovative in the health
sector in India. In addition, the Government of AP is taking steps to strengthen the linkages at
appropriate levels of the health system, through public investment and support of private
initiative, to ensure that the objectives of comprehensive medical and health care can be
achieved.
2.8        Policy Framework. In addition to the institutional changes mentioned above, GOAP
will undertake selective health policy reforms that will address key health sector issues (outlined
in paras 1.18-1.25), including resource enhancement and improvements in allocation within the
health sector, improvements in management and planning capacity, enhancement of quality of
services offered at the first referral level, better linkages with primary health care services,
greater access to health care delivery and review of private sector role and quality improvement.
These policy actions are critical to meeting the project's objectives since they will ensure the
safeguard of the institutional basis and service delivery package that are at the core of efficient
and effective performance of the first referral health system. Accordingly, the Government of
AP has furnished a Health Sector Policy Reform matrix (Annex 2). Availability of IDA
assistance for the project would be subject to implementation of actions set out in the Reform
Program. Specifically, these reforms would address:



17
(a) Proposal for enhancing the overall size of the health budget. The Government
of AP spends only about 1.3% of its Net Domestic Product on health care or about US$2-3 in
per capita terms (para 1.13). This contribution is low when compared to several Asian countries
with similar or even higher levels of income an is inadequate to meet the basic health care
service needs of AP population. The World Development Report (WDR) 1993, recommends that
about US$12 per capita are required in low-income developing countries to meet requirements
of preventive and promotive services including a minimum package of essential public health and
clinical services. The WDR's recommendation when applied to AP implies that the Government
would need to increase its contribution several times to provide for an essential package of
public health and clinical services. This would be very difficult under the present stringent
budgetary scenario. The Government of AP would need to at least maintain the share of health
sector allocation to the overall budget, which is currently at 5.6% of the state's revenue budget.
Under the Reform Program, GOAP is committed to maintaining the share of health sector
allocations within the overall budget at least at the FY94-95 level.
(b) Redressing the imbalance in public expenditures between the secondary and
tertiary health care levels. Within the health sector resource allocation is skewed in favor of
tertiary care services, compared to secondary care services. Allocations of public resources
between the secondary and tertiary sectors has been in the ratio of 51:49 respectively while
norms recommended by the Indian Planning Commission suggest a ratio of 67:33 respectively
(para 1.15). Moreover, tertiary hospitals have received about two-thirds of total Plan resources
allocated for the hospital sector and claimed a greater share of incremental resources. Secondary
level care has, therefore, traditionally suffered from low level of public funds. Investments at
the secondary level will redress some of this imbalance during the implementation years. Under
the Reform Program, and reaffirmed at negotiations, GOAP provided assurances that the share
of the primary and secondary levels in the total resources (plan and non-plan) allocated for the
health sector would be increased each year until the year 2000.
(c) Safeguarding the operations and maintenance component of the Non-Plan
allocations for the secondary health sector. The non-salary recurrent cost budget of the health
sector overall has been shrinking. For example, the share of salaries in APVVP has increased
from about 67% in FY92 to about 75 % in FY95 (Annex 3, Table 5). With total grants
remaining more or less constant, a rising share of salaries has meant that expenditures on critical
inputs other than personnel, such as drugs and essential supplies have declined in recent years.
Since price inflation for these commodities have been greater than average, there has in fact been
a decline in real expenditures on non-salary recurrent costs. Moreover, during the last two years,
even nominal expenditures per bed for drugs and consumables have declined. At negotiations,
GOAP provided assurances that it would allocate resources in accordance with agreed norms so
as to ensure that adequate supplies of drugs, essential supplies and maintenance of equipment
and buildings at secondary hospitals will be provided in accordance with norms set out in
Annexes 7, 9 and 10.
(d) (i) Charging of user fees for hospital services while protecting the poorest
segments of society. Inadequate charging of user fees has not helped to redress the low level of
funds for supplies, operations and maintenance at secondary facilities. The APVVP Act of 1986
created a provision for charging user fees so that hospitals are able to generate some additional
revenues to top up government contributions. The government has confirmed that APVVP has



18
the legal authority to institute user charges and that no legal restrictions against APVVP exist
that prevent it from charging user fees. APVVP's Governing Council's is responsible for taking
decisions to introduce specific user charges. However, it needs Government regulation to
facilitate implementation. Understanding was reached with the Government of AP and APVVP
that they would ensure that while protecting the poorest segments of society, charging of user
fees at secondary hospitals would be based on the principles that such charges would be to:
(i) target the receipts particularly on non-salary recurrent costs of APVVP hospitals; and
(ii) charge for private beds and amenities and procedures that are low in cost-effectiveness in
order to pay for those interventions that are high in cost-effectiveness. Cost-effectiveness will
be determined from time to time in accordance with a mechanism that is being developed
through the Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness study currently being undertaken by the
Administrative Staff College of India.
(d)(ii) In order to generate revenue and provide services for those willing to pay,
district and area hospitals will provide private paying bed facilities and begin to charge for
services in a phased manner after improvements in the quality of basic services and
infrastructure development have been completed. GOAP's Reform Program includes a time
schedule for the implementation of service improvements and subsequent introduction of user
charges. At negotiations, GOAP and APVVP provided assurances that at least 20% of all beds
at district and area hospitals would be dedicated as paying beds in accordance with this time
schedule. Community hospitals are not being slated to introduce paying beds since such
opportunities are minimal at community hospitals as they almost exclusively serve the poorest
segments of the population. Other charges such as fees for diagnostic procedures and drugs
would be phased in as improvements in basic services are provided also in accordance with a
time schedule to be agreed. APVVP is also considering enhancing the collection of revenue
through the increased sale of APVVP seals at the time of out-patient registration. In addition,
APVVP would institute adequate administrative mechanisms for collecting user fees and enhance
APVVP's resource generation capacity through the appointment of key staff in its Finance and
Audit unit.
(d)(iii) Moreover, because of the lack of appropriate management arrangements and
authority to act there are few incentives for hospitals and their staff to improve hospital operation
and quality of services. In order to provide incentives to hospital staff and management so that
the money collected through user charges at the hospital level would be used to improve
operations and maintenance at those facilities, APVVP would allow hospitals to retain a portion
of fees. At negotiations, GOAP and APVVP provided assurances that a third or more of income
generated at individual hospitals through user charges (e.g. paying beds) would be allowed to
be retained at the point of collection, with the concerned hospital being allowed to decide in the
utilization of such funds subject to the requirement that they not be applied to salaries.
Understanding was reached during negotiations that APVVP would endeavor to raise the amount
retained at individual facilities to about 40% of income generated from user charges.
(e) Contracting-out selected services. Private contractual services are often more
efficient and effective than direct labor. In view of the difficulties of employing government
staff, such as slow recruitment and poor attendance, contracting-out certain services, especially
support services, becomes even more attractive. However, using private contractual services is
a politically sensitive issue and there is some concern regarding quality. In the past, the state



19
employed private doctors as part-time consultants, but this was stopped on the basis that it
favored the doctor's reputation more than it improved the government sector's clinical services.
It has been confirmed that there are no legal barriers inhibiting the use of contractual services
for support functions and that the Contract Labor Regulation and Abolition Act (1970), which
prohibits certain institutions from contracting-out perennial services, exempt hospitals and health
care facilities. In order to cut costs and increase efficiency, the Governing Council of APVVP
would therefore review and propose implementation of private contractual services, especially
supporting services, in accordance with an agreed plan.
(f) Enhancing capacity for strategic planning. A strategic planning cell would be
set up in the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare to address strategic planning
issues in the health sector and provide management with policy options. It would undertake
operational and policy related research projects, either independently or through local
consultants, and it would organize workshops and seminars. It would monitor and review the
Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness study initiated during preparation jointly by the
Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) and the Harvard Center for Population and
Development Studies. The study is estimating Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY) gained
in AP as an extension of the analysis of the Global Burden of Disease study undertaken in the
WDR (1993). An important finding of this study will be that it will provide an estimate of cost-
effectiveness of 30-50 most important health interventions, which would provide important policy
options for health sector planning in AP. The study would also provide a strong empirical basis
to review identification of low cost-effective mechanisms for which user charges would be
appropriate, on the basis of which the AP Government could determine the level and extent of
user charges. In addition, the strategic planning cell would undertake analyses of a number of
other equally important health issues including: monitoring the role of the private sector and
reviewing the suitability of present regulations relating to the quality of private care provision;
analyzing the evolving epidemiological profile in AP; and undertaking of periodic review of the
health manpower supply situation and training needs in AP. At negotiations, the Government of
AP and APVVP provided assurances that the Government of AP would ensure that a strategic
planning cell would be set up by June 30, 1995 within the Department of Health, Medical and
Family Welfare that would report directly to the Secretary of the Department.
(g) Addressing workforce issues. There is currently no acute shortage of professional
staff overall, but there is a shortage of some medical specialties and nurses. The first step would
be to improve recruitment and prompt filling of job vacancies by improving the main
procedures. Although APVVP has the legal authority to recruit staff directly, implementation
of this authority has not followed because of Government's overall staffing concern. APVVP
would be allowed greater flexibility for recruiting staff. Staff could be recruited either
independently by APVVP as specified by the 1986 APVVP Act or by the Government through
the Department of Medical, Health and Family Welfare with APVVP acting as the nodal agency
for recruitment. At negotiations, GOAP provided assurances that it would implement a program
acceptable to IDA for strengthening the management effectiveness of APVVP, including
providing APVVP adequate authority to select, employ and transfer APVVP staff.



20
D. Project Description
2.9       In conjunction with the Program for Health Sector Development, the Government
would make some specific investments that are consistent with the objectives of the project as
stated in paragraph 2.1. These investments would strengthen the organizational structure of
health care at the district level by linking preventive and curative health care services and
establishing a policy framework for the development of a health sector program in AP. In
support of this approach, the project would finance the following investments: (i) strengthening
institutions for policy development and implementation capacity; (ii) improving quality, access
and effectiveness of health services at district hospitals; (iii) and improving quality, access and
effectiveness of health services at area and community hospitals, including referral mechanisms
that will strengthen linkages with primary health services. The total number of beds at district,
area and community hospitals would increase from the existing number of 9,651 beds to 14,000
beds at project completion, increasing the bed capacity at the secondary level by 45%. The
corresponding increase at the district hospital level would be from 4,600 beds to 5,600 beds, an
increase of about 22%; while the increase at the area and community hospitals would be from
5,051 beds to 8,400 beds, an increase of about 66%.
Institutional Strengthening (US$4. 1 million. 3 % of base costs).
2.10       Improvin2 the Institutional Framework for Policy Development. Sectoral capacity
for development of policy would be strengthened through the creation of a planning cell headed
by a Joint Secretary who would report directly to the Secretary of Health, Medical and Family
Welfare, Government of AP. The planning cell would monitor the critical issues in the health
sector in AP by commissioning studies, workshops and seminars and by directly hiring
consultants to facilitate these activities. As mentioned earlier, some of the issues would include
monitoring the development of the private health sector and reviewing the suitability of present
regulations relating to the quality of private care provision, analyzing the evolving
epidemiological profile in AP, and evaluating the burden of disease and cost-effectiveness of
public health interventions and reviewing medical manpower. In addition, it would review
implementation of cost recovery mechanisms and sectoral resource allocation patterns. At
negotiations, the Government of AP and APVVP provided assurances that GOAP would carry
out by December 31, 1995, a review of the policy framework for private provision of health
services in AP and thereafter discuss with the Association recommendations arising from such
review.  Under this sub-component the project would finance studies, workshops, local
consultants, computers, operational expenses and salaries of incremental staff on a decreasing
basis.
2.11       Strengthening Institutions and their Implementation Capacity. Four key areas that
would be addressed include strengthening structures, systems and procedures; culture of service
delivery; resources; and training. At APVVP level, the focus would be on improving
management effectiveness, and at community, area and district hospitals emphasis would be on
strengthening service delivery management. APVVP will be able to better manage its resources,
deliver clinical services effectively, and its hospitals will be able to play a role within the district
health systems by taking the following actions. These are: provide greater freedom of action for
APVVP with regard to recruitment of staff and raising revenue; establish clarity of goals,
objectives and procedures; improve supervision; create opportunities for contracting out services,



21
especially support services; improve medical record-keeping and management information
systems; provide management training; and improve capacity for equipment management,
especially state-wide maintenance services by enhancing the capacity of the equipment
maintenance and training center (EMTC) and establishing 3 zonal workshops. The
implementation capacity of AP Health and Medical Housing Infrastructure Development
Corporation (APHMHIDC) would also be strengthened to deal with the increased supervision
of civil works under the project through appointment of 2 full time architects and procurement
of additional vehicles and computers. In addition, monitoring and evaluation capacity would be
strengthened including improvement of the hospital management information system. At
negotiations, the Government of AP provided assurances that APVVP would engage key
additional headquarters personnel and APHMHIDC would engage key additional personnel to
be recruited under the project by June 30, 1995. Under this sub-component the project would
finance local training, MIS/IEC materials, computers, vehicles, studies, workshops, operational
expenses and salaries of incremental staff on a decreasing basis.
2.12      A key component of the project is strengthening the management capacity of
APVVP to adequately address its increased responsibilities. The first aspect of strengthening
APVVP's management is consolidating the existing institutional and management structure, and
evaluating the arrangements from time to time to see whether the management system is
producing the best results. APVVP is currently managed by its Governing Council consisting
of 5 members of the medical profession and Legislative Assembly nominated by the Government
of AP, and 5 ex-officio members that include the Secretaries of Health and Finance
Departments, Commissioner Institutional Finance, Vice Chancellor of the University of Health
Sciences and the Director of Health. The Governing Council has powers to make regulations,
borrow money and to levy fees for services as well as the management of the Commissionerate.
The Government has powers to issue directions to the Commissionerate in matters of inspection
and control, to make rules and undertake audit of APVVP's accounts. The Commissioner, who
is the Chairman of the Governing Council and is the Chief Executive, is appointed by the
Government from among the members of the medical profession who have administrative
experience. The AP law that established APVVP provides for Government of AP combining
operator and regulator functions for secondary hospitals, i.e., the key government officials
entrusted with supervisory authority are also members of the Governing Council. As those
officials customarily do not participate, but send Departmental representatives, in meetings of
the Governing Council, they are however able to adequately regulate the Governing Council and
management of APVVP. APVVP is a legal devise to improve disbursements and contracting and
increase participation of non-governmental organization, but is administered by GOAP along the
same lines as a Government Department. It is therefore subject to audit and supervisory
arrangements applicable to government agencies. At negotiations, the Government of AP
provided assurances that not later than July 1, 1997, GOAP would carry out, jointly with GOI
and IDA, a detailed mid-term review of project progress including a management review of
APVVP and thereafter implement its recommendations.
2.13      APVVP's organizational structure and the existing and proposed additional staff are
shown in the chart in Annex 5. The second aspect of strengthening management will be achieved
by the increased management training for professional cadres and on-going in-service training
for clinical and technical cadres. This will facilitate the implementation of the quality
improvement strategy of the project, through which new responsibilities are being allocated, and



22
it is hoped that decision making will be decentralized down to the appropriate management level.
The third aspect will consist of enhancing staff strength at the Head Office to undertake
increased responsibilities and perform some new functions. Headquarters staff will be increased
by adding 37 posts plus 3 additional posts will be created at the equipment storage facility at
King Koti hospital in Hyderabad. This will provide the required staffing to meet the increased
workload and reorient the structure of APVVP to meet its new challenges. Specific areas
targeted for strengthening include the training and referral unit (6), the finance and audit unit
(16), the Office of the Joint Commissioner, General (12) and the Office of the Joint
Commissioner, Service Delivery (3). These changes are in line with the increased responsibilities
assigned to APVVP through this project.
2.14       The management information system (MIS) and the health management information
system will be strengthened (HMIS). These will facilitate systems improvement, wider access
and improved data collection and utilization for planning and policy making, problem solving
and monitoring. In AP, at the hospital level, both information collection and management are
fairly rudimentary. The project will: (i) enhance and extend the computerized system through
the provision of hardware and software, and consultancy support; (ii) establish trained and
equipped information cells at HQ and district levels; (iii) train all management staff in
appropriate record keeping; and (iv) introduce a completely revised medical record system for
Ips and diagnostic services.
Improving Service Ouality. Access and Effectiveness at District Hospitals
(US$55.1 million. 40% of base costs).
2.15       Renovate/extend 21 District Hospitals. Seventeen existing district hospitals would
be renovated and extended, and four others which are currently area hospitals would be upgraded
into district hospitals. The four area hospitals that would be upgraded into district hospitals
would be in those districts that have district hospitals combined with teaching facilities, and
which are not under the jurisdiction of APVVP. Under the project, there would therefore be 21
district hospitals under APVVP. There are 4,600 existing beds at district hospitals under
APVVP. The clinical effectiveness and quality of services for the existing beds would be
improved as described below. In addition, 1,000 new beds providing improved services would
be added at the district hospitals. The total number of beds at district hospitals would total 5,600
at project completion. A limited number of staff quarters would also be built in areas where
housing is a problem for staff. Under this sub-component the project would finance civil works,
professional services and building maintenance.
2.16       Upgrade Clinical Effectiveness and Ouality of Services at District Hospitals. At the
21 district hospitals, updated norms and standards for clinical and support services would be
applied, staffing norms conforming to the services that will be provided at each type of facilities
would be adopted, a system for monitoring improvements in the quality of clinical care would
be established through the adoption of a quality assurance program and the capacity of support
services would be expanded. Staff skills in clinical and technical areas would be enhanced
through the provision of training to improve the quality and range of services. At negotiations,
the Government of AP provided assurances that APVVP would adopt within six months after
upgradation of each facility, staffing and technical norms at its district hospitals as agreed at
negotiations to ensure the quality of services. Under this sub-component the project would



23
finance medical and other equipment, medical laboratory and other supplies, medicines, minor
civil works, professional services, vehicles, furniture, local consultants, local training,
workshops, fellowships, equipment and building maintenance, operational expenses and salaries
of additional staff on a decreasing basis.
Improving Ouality. Access and Effectiveness at Area and Community
Hospitals (US$78.0 million, 57% of base costs).
2.17      Renovate/extend 49 Area and 80 Community Hospitals. All the 49 area hospitals
and 80 community hospitals would undergo renovation and extension. There are 5,051 existing
beds at these area and community hospitals under APVVP. The clinical effectiveness and quality
of services for the existing beds would be improved as described below. In addition, 3,349 new
beds providing improved services would be added at area and community hospitals. The total
number of beds at area and community beds would total 8,300 at project completion. Staff
quarters would be built at a large number of these facilities, especially in the more remote and
tribal areas where accommodation for staff is poor. Improved services would be provided at six
community hospitals and three area hospitals located in tribal areas which have an existing bed
capacity of 270 beds. These nine hospitals would be renovated and extended, and 290 new beds
would be added. Because hospital utilization is low in tribal areas, a major effort would be
undertaken to encourage tribal populations to make greater use of services offered at community
facilities through information, education and commnunication (IEC) efforts, while concurrently
improving the quality of service offered to tribal populations. Under this sub-component the
project would finance civil works, professional services and building maintenance.
2.18      Upgrade Clinical Effectiveness and Quality at Area and Community Hospitals. At
the 49 area and 80 community hospitals, updated norms and standards for clinical and support
services would be applied, staffing norms conforming to the services that will be provided at
each type of facilities would be adopted, a system for monitoring improvements in the quality
of clinical care would be established through the adoption of a quality assurance program and
the capacity of support services would be expanded. Staff skills in clinical and technical areas
would be enhanced through the provision of training to improve the quality and range of
services. At negotiations, the Government of AP provided assurances that APVVP would adopt,
within six months after upgradation of each facility, staffing and technical norms at its area and
community hospitals as agreed at negotiations to ensure quality of services. Under this sub-
component the project would finance medical and other equipment, medical laboratory and other
supplies, medicines, vehicles, furniture, local consultants, local training, workshops, fellowships,
equipment and building maintenance, operational expenses and salaries of additional staff on a
decreasing basis.
2.19      Improve Functioning of Referral. Conceptually a multi-tier health delivery system
which combines preventive, curative and specialized care is efficient when it performs
adequately. It works best when the lowest tier (the primary care level) is easily accessible to the
community and provides the bulk of the preventive care as well as the first line care for common
illness conditions. Patients with more complex problems are identified in a timely and systematic
fashion, and referred to an appropriate higher level. Each successive level provides services that
is technically more complex and therefore more expensive. In such a system the higher tier
provides technical leadership and support for the lower tiers, and the community has confidence



24
in the quality of care provided at each tier and patients understand that they will be referred in
accordance with their medical needs. In reality, the referral system in AP, as in the rest of India
does not function well. The different tiers do not complement each other, the lower tiers are
underutilized, institutional and technical linkages between the lower and the higher tiers are weak
and each tier operates as an independent entity providing similar levels of care. It is estimated
that a third of all cases which are currently treated at tertiary facilities could be treated, and at
lower costs, at secondary facilities if those facilities were properly equipped and staffed.
2.20       In order to improve the referral system, the project would implement several
measures to strengthen the referral system and improve the quality of care in the secondary
hospitals. At negotiations, the Government of AP provided assurances that GOAP and APVVP
shall strengthen the referral system between the primary, secondary and tertiary levels by July
1, 1995 by: (i) establishing District Referral Committees in all 23 districts in coordination with
the Directorate of Health Services; (ii) issuing appropriate administrative directives to strengthen
the management of the referral system; (iii) implementing referral protocols; (iv) implementing
clinical management protocols; and (v) establishing an incentive system with differentiated user
fees for users and non-users and allowing patients to by-pass waiting lines when they carry a
referral slip. Special attention would also be given to establishing mechanisms to improve access
for remote and disadvantaged groups and tribal communities. The project would establish
linkages and communications between the secondary and primary health care levels. The
secondary hospitals would provide clinical and technical support to the PHCs; clinical skills at
secondary facilities would be updated and upgraded; technical support for the primary level of
care and community hospitals would be strengthened; referral mechanisms between community,
area and district hospitals would be strengthened; and mechanisms to provide greater access to
secondary and higher levels of health care would be formulated by making the referral system
more timely, effective and client-friendly. Under this sub-component the project would finance
vehicles, MIS and IEC materials, local training, local consultants and workshops.
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND
DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
3.1        The total cost of the project is estimated at about Rs.6,083.2 million or US$158.9
million equivalent including taxes and duties estimated at US$8.8 million equivalent. IDA would
finance about US$133.0 million or about 88.6 percent of total project costs net of taxes; the
balance would be financed by the Government of AP. The direct and indirect foreign exchange
cost is estimated at US$27.5 million. The project would finance civil works, equipment and
furniture, vehicles, medical and laboratory supplies, medicines, other supplies, MIS/IEC
supplies, professional services, training, studies and evaluations, and incremental salaries and
costs on a declining basis. Cost estimates, the financing plan, procurement arrangements and
disbursements plans are attached in Annex 1.
3.2        The breakdown of project costs by component and categories of expenditure for the
project is summarized in Tables 3.1 and 3.2 below.



25
Table 3.1: Cost By Component
Rs. Million                    US$ Million              %          X
Total
Component                 Local      Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign    Total    Foreign      Base
Exchange    Costs
I Institutional Strengthening
la.Improve the Policy Framework        15.93       .67        16.60      .50        .02      .52    4%           0%
lb.Strengthen Implementation Capacity  104.21      8.67      112.88      3.26      .27       3.53    8%          3%
Subtotal    120.13      9.35       129.48     3.75       .29      4.05    7%          3%
nI Improve Service Quality, Access & Effectiveness at District Hospitals
2a.Renovate& Extend District Hospitals    781.68  141.33     923.01      24.43     4.42     28.84   15%          21%
2b.Upgrade Clinical Effectiveness     707.26      131.52     838.78      22.10     4.11     26.21   16%          19%
Subtotal  1,488.94     272.85    1,761.79    46.53      8.53      55.06   15%         40%
HI Improve Service Quality, Access and Effectiveness at Area & Community Hospitals
3a.Renovate& Extend Area Hospitals&    1,074.00   194.16    1,268.16     33.56     6.07     39.63   15%          29%
Community Hospitals
3b.Upgrade Clinical Effectiveness     923.07      238.77    1,161.84     28.85     7.46      36.31   21%         26%
3c.Improve Functioning of Referral     35.01      29.98       64.99      1.09       .94      2.03    46%          1%
Subtotal  2,032.08     462.91    2,494.99     63.50     14.47     77.97   19%         57%
Toa BASELINE COSTS                        3,641.15     745.11    4,386.26    113.79    23.28    137.07   17%           100%
Physical Contingencies                315.13      74.30      389.43      9.85      2.32      12.17   19%         9%
Price Contingencies                  1,090.00     217.52    1,307.52     7.80       1.86     9.66    19%         7%
Tota PROJECT COSTS'                       5,046.28    1,036.93    6,083.21    131.44    27.46    158.90   17%          116%
'NOTE: Inclusive of taxes and duties estimated at US$8.8 million equivalent.



26
Table 3.2: Cost By Categories of Expenditure
Rs.Million                    US$ Million             %          %
total
Component                 Local     Foreign     Total     Local    Foreign    Total    Foreign      Base
Exchange    Costs
Investment Costs
Civil Works (Renovation& Extensions)   1,651.14    291.38    1,942.52    51.60    9.11    60.70      15%        44%
Professional Services                 155.40     38.85      194.25     4.86       1.21     6.07      20%        4%
Fumiture                               62.19      6.91       69.10      1.94      .22      2.16      10%        2%
Equipment (Medical & Other)           153.86    211.40      365.26     4.80       6.51    11.42      57%         8%
Vehicles                               13.32     39.97       53.29      .42       1.25     1.67      75%         1%
Medical Lab & Other Supplies          144.72      8.44      153.16     4.53       .26      4.77       6%        4%
Medicines                              98.70     98.70      197.40     3.08       3.08     6.17      50%         5%
MIS/IEC Materials                      22.69      7.56       30.25      .71        .24      .95      25%         1%
Local Training                         38.09        -        38.09      1.19        -      1.19        -         1%
Local Consultants                      3.70         -        3.70       .12         -       .12                  -
Studies & Workshops                    22.05        -        22.05      .69         -       .69       -
Fellowships(Foreign& Local)            1.35       4.19       5.53       .04        .13      .18      72%         -
Total Investment Costs                    2,367.20    707.40    3,074.60    73.97      22.11    96.08      23%        70%
Recurrent Costs                                -          -          -         -         -         -        -          -
Salaries of Additional Staff          934.58        -       934.58     29.21        -     29.21        -        21%
Operational Expenses                  168.54     18.73      187.27     5.27        .59     5.85      10%        4%
Building Maintenance                   52.02      5.78       57.80      1.63      .18      1.81      10%         1%
Equipment Maintenance                 118.81     13.20      132.01     3.71        .41     4.13      10%         3%
Total Recurrent Costs                      1,273.95    37.71     1,311.66    39.81      1.18    40.99       3%       30%
Total BASELINE COSTS                      3,641.15    745.11    4,386.26    113.79     23.28    137.07     17%       100%
Physical Contingencies                315.13     74.30      389.43     9.85       2.32    12.17      19%        9%
Price Contingencies                  1,090.00    217.52    1,307.52    7.80       1.86     9.66      19%        7%
Total PROJECT COSTS                       5,046.28   1,036.93    6,083.21    131.44    27.46   158.90      17%       116%
*NOTE: Inclusive of taxes and duties estimated at US$8.8 million equivalent.



27
3.3       Basis of Cost Estimates. Estimated costs for civil works are based on
current unit costs for construction which vary from US$110 to US$125 per square meter
of gross floor area of construction.  These costs are comparable to IDA-assisted
construction in India. Costs of professional services for design reflect the scale of fees
established for similar services provided by local architectural consulting firms. Costs for
supervision of construction reflect the standard establishment charges of the state Public
Works Department (PWD). Cost estimates for furniture, medical equipment, vehicles
and medical supplies are product of lists developed by APVVP, and include import duties
and taxes. Costs of other supplies are based on the state estimates and reflect current
prices. Estimated costs for the salaries of additional staff are based on basic pay scales
including standard allowances for social and other benefits applicable in the State.
3.4        Customs duties and taxes. All imported goods are subject to customs duties
and taxes. The estimated cost of the project includes import duties and taxes estimated
at about US$8.8 million equivalent.
3.5       Contingency  allowances.   Estimated  project costs include physical
contingencies (US$12.2 million) estimated at 10% of all physical components and at 5%
for technical assistance, training and salaries. The estimated costs of the project also
include price contingencies (US$9.7 million) to cover expected price escalation at the
following rates. For civil works, goods, salaries, technical assistance and operation and
maintenance - foreign costs: 2.2% in FY95 through FY2002; local costs: 8.0% in FY95,
7.0% in FY96, and 6.0% in FY97 through FY2002.
3.6       Foreign exchange component. The estimated foreign exchange component
of US$ 27.5 million is calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange proportions
as follows: (a) civil works 15%; (b) professional services 20%; (c) furniture 10%; (d)
equipment 60%; (e) locally manufactured vehicles 12%; (f) imported vehicles 90%; (g)
medical lab supply 20%; (h) medicine 50%; (i) MIS and IEC materials 25%; (j) foreign
fellowships 90%; (k) operation and maintenance, and maintenance for buildings and
equipment 10%.
B. Financing Plan
3.7       The estimated total project cost of US$158.9 million would be financed by
an IDA Credit of US$133.0 million equivalent, which would cover about 88.6 percent
of the project costs net of taxes. GOAP would finance the remaining costs of US$17.2
million plus all taxes (US$8.8 million).
3.8       The credit would be made available to GOI on standard terms and conditions
and on-lent to GOAP under standard arrangements for development assistance to the
states. An understanding was reached that GOI would release about three month's
anticipated project expenditures in advance to GOAP (in accordance with the amounts
established in the Annual Plans), and that upon receipt of funds from GOI, GOAP would



28
transfer all such funds, together with its quarterly counterpart contributions, immediately
to the project accounts of APVVP.
C. Procurement Arrangements
3.9       Table 3.3 summarizes the project items, their related cost estimates and
proposed methods of procurement. Project-related procurement for goods, works and
services would follow procedures acceptable to IDA using ICB and LCB documents
acceptable to the Association. Project-financed consultants would be recruited according
to Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Procurement of
equipment, vehicles, and medical lab supplies would be bulked to the extent possible and
any individual contract exceeding US$200,000 equivalent would be procured under ICB
procedures. This is also true for vehicles, except for those needed for immediate use
costing up to an aggregate of US$100,000 only, which may be procured through local
shopping or rate contract. Shopping under the project would include international
shopping procedures, based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from two eligible countries, or local shopping procedures with solicitation of
price quotations from at least three suppliers all in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Three Section Officers, part of the Export and Purchase Committees, experienced in
procurement are responsible for procurement of goods: one for furniture and other supply
materials; one for drugs; and one for surgical and hospital equipment.
3.10       Civil Works (US$70.7 million). The civil works component entails no new
hospital construction but does involve large and small scale renovations and extensions
to 150 hospitals over the seven year life of the project. Work on 125 sites (costing
US$63.59 million) will be carried out through local competitive bidding. These works
average about US$500,000 and would not be of any interest to foreign bidders. The
remaining works at 25 sites (costing US$4.59 million) scattered and in remote areas
would be carried out through a combination of force account and soliciting quotations
from at least three contractors. These works individually are estimated to cost US$15,000
or less up to an aggregate amount of US$2.12 million.
3.11      Equipment (US$13.2  million). Procurement of most of the equipment
would be phased on an annual basis in accordance with the requirements of the project.
Contracts valued at over US$200,000 would be procured through ICB for an amount not
exceeding US$6.00 million. Contracts valued at US$200,000 or less would be procured
through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA for an amount not exceeding US$4.59
million. Purchases totalling US$50,000 or less, and not exceeding in aggregate US$2.65
million equivalent, may be awarded on the basis of local and international shopping.



29
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements
(Total Costs in US$ Million)
Procurement Method
International    Local
Competitive   Competitive
Bidding       Bidding    Other  /a    N.B.F.    Total  b/
WORKS
Civil Works                                       -           63 59        7.07                   70.66
(54 05)     (6.01)                 (60.06)
GOODS
Vehicles                                         1 82           -          010          -          1.92
(1.60)                    (0.08)                  (1.69)
Furniture                                         -            1 88        0 63         -          2 51
(1.69)      (0.56)                  (2.26)
Equipment                                       6.00           4.59        2.65         -         13.23
(5.28)        (4 04)      (2 33)                 (11.65)
Medical Lab Supplies                              -            0 77        0 77         -          1.55
(0.70)     (0.70)                   (1.39)
Medicines                                         -            5 83        1 46         -          7.29
(5 25)     (I 31)                   (6.56)
Other Supplies                                    -            1 62        2.43         -          4.04
(I 46)     (2 18)                   (3.64)
MISAEC Materials                                  -            0 85        0.28         -          1.13
(0 76)     (0 25)                   (1.02)
CONSULTANCIES
Project Prep & Implementation Support             -             -          1.31         -          1.31
(Includes Local Training Services, Workshops)                             (1 .31)                 (1.31)
Institutional Development (includes               -             -          8.00         -          8.00
Local Consultants, Studies)                                               (8.00)                  (8.00)
MISCELLANEOUS
Fellowships                                       -             -          0.20         -          0.20
(0.20)                  (0.20)
Salaries of Additional Staff                      -             -         33.04         -         33.04
(24 62)                 (24.62)
Operational Expenditures                          -             -          6.95         -          6.95
(5.18)                  (5.18)
Building Maintenance                              -             -          2.18         -          2.18
(1.56)                  (1.56)
Equipment Maintenance                             -             -          4.90         -          4.90
(3.65)                  (3.65)
TOTAL                                            7.82         79.13       71.95          -        158.90
(6.88)       (67 95)     (58.17)                 (133.00)
NOTES
/a  "Other" methods include International Shopping, Local Shopping, Force Account,
Consulting Services and such 'non-procurement" funded activities such as salaries
of incremental staff covered by the project.
lb Firgures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



30
3.12      Vehicles (US$1.9 Million). The state Health Transport Organization is in
charge of the procurement of vehicles on behalf of MOH. Vehicles would be procured
during the first two years of the project through ICB for an amount not exceeding
US$1.82 million. To facilitate project start-up activities procurement of vehicles up to
an aggregate of US$100,000 will be undertaken under local shopping procedures or rate
contracts.
3.13      Furniture (US$2.5 million), laboratory supplies (US$1.6 million), MIS/IEC
materials (US$1.1 million) and other supplies (US$4.0 million) would be purchased as
follows. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate
of US$4.16 million may be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping with solicitation
of price quotations from at least three suppliers. This is again based on the fact that this
amount covers purchases by 150 hospitals over a period of seven years. Contracts valued
at US$50,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA for an amount not exceeding US$5.12 million.
3.14      Medicines (US$7.3 million) would be purchased by each of the 150 hospitals
as well as by APVVP several times per year over the seven year life of the project.
Bulking requirements would not always be feasible due to shelf life of the medicines.
As a result the individual purchases would be small and not likely to attract foreign
bidders. Accordingly, contracts valued at US$50,000 equivalent or more would be
awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA for an amount not exceeding
US$5.83 million. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an
aggregate of US$1.46 million may be awarded on the basis of local and international
shopping.
3.15      Consultancv Contracts (US$8.0 million) and Fellowships (US$0.2 million).
Consultants required under the project will be hired following procedures prescribed in
"Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency"; August, 1981. Documents used for inviting proposals, terms of
reference for all consultancies, fellowships, and single-source contracts will be subject
to prior review for all contracts valued at US$100,000 or more awarded to firms and
US$50,000 or more to be awarded to individuals (See Annex 8).
3.16      Training and Workshops (US$1.3 million). This category includes expenses
related to training of about 3,500 medical professionals over the life of the project in
respect of seminars, workshops, travel and subsistence allowances.
3.17      Maintenance Services (US$7.1 million). Maintenance costs for vehicles,
medical and other equipment items estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per contract
up to an aggregate of US$4.9 million would be procured from local commercial suppliers
of such services in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Maintenance of
buildings and building equipment (funded by the project) estimated to cost US$2.2



31
million shall be carried out by Force Account where such arrangements already exist or
by obtaining three quotations from local contractors in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA.
3.18       IDA Review. All procurement under ICB would be subject to IDA's prior
review; all LCB contracts costing US$300,000 equivalent or more for civil works and
US$200,000 equivalent or more for goods would be subject to prior review. All other
contracts would be subject to random post review in the field by visiting missions. Other
contracts for civil works and goods would be subject to IDA review after contract award.
Contracts for the hiring of consulting firm costing US$100,000 equivalent or more and
contracts for hiring individual consultant costing US$50,000 equivalent or more, would
be subject to prior review and approval by IDA. Approximately 60% of the value of the
IDA Credit would require prior review.
D. Disbursement Profile
3.19       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over seven years, consistent
with the standard profile for PHR projects in India. The project is expected to be
completed on September 30, 2001 and the credit closed on March 31, 2002. The
experience with other PHR projects reinforces the justification for a standard
disbursement profile.   Table  3.4 below  shows forecasts of expenditures and
disbursements.
Table 3.4: Estimated Expenditures and Disbursements
IDA FY        FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY2000   FY01   FY02
Annual        8.5     17.0    28.6    40.3    35.3    16.5        12.7   0.0
Expenditures
Annual        4.0     9.3      15.8    21.4    21.2    21.2      31.9   8.2
Disbursement
Cumulative    8.5     25.5    54.1    94.4    129.7   146.2    158.9  0.0
Expenditures
Cumulative    4.0     13.3    29.1    50.5    71.7    92.9        124.8  133.0
Disbursement
3.20       Disbursement percentages and required documentation.  The IDA credit
would be disbursed against 85% of expenditures on civil works: 100% on professional
services, consultants and fellowships; 100 percent of CIF and ex-factory costs or 80%
of other local expenditure on furniture, equipment, vehicles, medicines and materials,
MIS and IEC materials; and 75% of incremental staff salaries and other recurrent costs
on a declining basis during the project period starting with 90% in the first three years,
declining to 75% for the fourth and fifth year, and 60% thereafter. Disbursements for



32
civil works renovations and extensions estimated to cost below US$300,000 per contract
would be made against Statements of Expenditure based on certification of satisfactory
completion. The state government would maintain complete records of funds disbursed,
including certificates of completion signed by the District Executive Engineer, the
Managing Director of APHMHIDC and or the Commissioner of APVVP. Disbursement
for procurement of goods (including equipment, furniture, laboratory supplies, medicines,
MIS/IEC materials and other supplies) under contract valued at less than US$200,000
and services under contracts valued at less than US$100,000 per firm (US$50,000 per
individual contract), maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles and incremental
staff salaries would also be made against Statements of Expenditure, with supporting
documentation retained by the State government for review by IDA during supervision
missions. All other disbursements would be made against fully documented withdrawal
applications.
3.21      Special Account and central government advance to the state. In order to
accelerate disbursements in respect of IDA's share of expenditures prefinanced by the
GOI and the state government, and to allow for direct payment of other eligible local and
foreign expenditures, a Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of
India in the amount of US$3.0 million equivalent to cover four months of estimated
disbursements through the Special Account.
3.22      Retroactive financing. Retroactive financing for project preparation in the
amount of US$5.5 million, about 4.1 percent of the proposed credit, is provided to cover
eligible expenditures incurred in implementing appraised project activities after April 1,
1994 or a date one year prior to signing of legal agreement for the project, whichever
is later. Retroactive financing in support of project preparation would support initial staff
appointments for APVVP headquarters, the construction of the extension to APVVP
headquarters to locate key additional, technical survey of the existing hospitals under the
project and the preparation of designs pertaining to Phase I of the construction program.
Procurement arrangements were reviewed and found appropriate.
E. Status of Project Preparation
3.23      The Government of AP finalized a project proposal in January 1994 in
consultation with several IDA missions and on the basis of a Workshop on service,
facilities and equipment norms. A decision has been made to locate a strategic planning
cell within the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare and report directly
to the Secretary of the Department. A Statement of Health Sector Development Policy
has been provided by the AP Government and attached as Annex 2. Management
structure of APVVP, the implementing agency, is in place and a plan has been drawn up
to improve its implementation capacity through management training and enhancement
of staff (Annex 5). Clinical, management and equipment training components of the
project have been reviewed and agreement has been reached on a strategy for nursing
development. Clinical and diagnostic norns have been developed for each of the three



33
types of community, area and district hospitals in a user-responsive manner (Annex 7).
Equipment norms for each type of facility have been developed (Annex 9); staffing
norms for each type of facility have been developed (Annex 6); inventory of equipment
at 150 facilities is complete and a plan has been drawn up for maintenance arrangements
(Annex 10). All facilities for upgradation have been identified, technical surveys and
designs have been completed for the first phase of construction (Annex 15).
APHMHIDC, responsible for civil works construction, has finalized a detailed
construction program, related cost estimates, implementation schedule and developed
schedules of accommodation for each of the three types of facilities (Annex 17).
Procurement packages for civil works, equipment etc. have been completed. A complete
list of equipment for all 150 hospitals has been prepared and equipment specifications
have been reviewed with IDA (para 3.9 and Annex 16).
3.24      In addition, the following actions have also been undertaken in refining
project design, scope and approach: performance indicators which were developed
collaboratively with APVVP are provided in Annex 18; findings and recommendations
of the beneficiary assessment study, which surveyed a sample of the target population,
have been used to refine project design and strategy; an action plan for delivery of
services to tribal and remote areas has been prepared based on the sample survey
mentioned above (Annex 14); an IEC plan has been developed (Annex 13); the size of
the proposed workforce under the project by cadre, compared to current sanctioned
workforce has been reviewed and the cost implications included in project costs; and
arrangements for supervision, including audit of APVVP and adequacy of reporting and
monitoring arrangements by APVVP has been reviewed with IDA (Annex 19).
3.25      An important aspect of project preparation has been the involvement of key
stake-holders. Preparation of the project devoted special attention to facilitating a sense
of ownership and commitment of those involved in the process. A sample of potential
beneficiaries were interviewed at secondary hospitals and primary health centers during
field visits. Their views and experiences were considered, and included in refining
project design. Several groups of representatives, including managers and clinical care
providers from the different levels of APVVP hospitals, participated actively in
developing the proposed formal mechanisms for establishing systematic monitoring and
progressive improvement of quality of care in the APVVP system. The Corporation
responsible for supervising the design of hospital upgradation has also encouraged
interaction between the user of facilities and the design architect. A forum has been set
up where the views of users are being actively sought by the architects.
F. Implementation Plan
3.26      The project would be implemented by GOAP and APVVP within the existing
administrative structure. APVVP would play a central role in implementing the project.
The Commissioner of APVVP would be the Project Coordinator.  The Project
Coordinator would ensure that APVVP would interact closely and coordinate its health



34
care delivery with the three major Directorates reporting to the Secretary Medical, Health
and Family Welfare Department. The three Directorates are Medical Education, Health
Services and the Family Welfare Program. APVVP would also coordinate with the five
smaller Directorates that look after the AIDS program, Preventive Medicine, Employees
State Insurance, Indian System of Medicine and Drug Control. The organizational chart
of APVVP is shown in Annex 5 on Organization and Management System. As the
implementing agency, APVVP would be responsible for undertaking overall management
of all aspects of the project including executing, procuring works and goods, supervising
and monitoring and reporting.
3.27      The initial phase of project implementation will focus on developmental
activities including project launch, monitoring mechanisms and performance indicators,
strengthening health MIS system, initiating in-service training of staff in clinical,
management and equipment matters, strengthening the functions and appointing staff at
the head office and supplying equipment to existing hospitals to improve the quality of
service to existing hospital facilities. The first phase of the implementation plan for the
civil works program will consist of completing the renovation and extension of APVVP
headquarters and the first phase of the hospital upgradation program consisting of 25
hospitals. During the initial phase the implementation plan would be to: complete
topographical site surveys and soil tests; finalize and complete all drawings including site
development plans, invite bids and commence construction for 150 hospitals under the
four planned phases (see Annex 17); and complete over 50 percent of phase I and phase
II and about 25% of phase III and phase IV; and prepare and complete all drawings
including site development plans, launch bids and sign contracts of all 150 hospitals
requiring upgradation. About 30 percent of total construction is expected to be completed
by the end of the second year. At negotiations, the Government of AP provided
assurances that it would review with IDA annually by April 30 of each year the progress
of project implementation over the preceding twelve months and prepare an annual work
plan for the following twelve months acceptable to IDA.
G. Recurrent Cost and Sustainabilitv
3.28      This section analyzes recurrent cost and sustainability on the basis of the
following questions: (i) what will be the incremental recurrent costs of the project as a
percentage of current recurrent costs of APVVP; (ii) what will be the size of the
incremental recurrent costs as a percentage of the state's plan and non-plan current
budget; (iii) what will be size of the incremental recurrent costs as a percentage of the
state's health and FW current budget; (iv) what will be the likely share of APVVP as a
percentage of the health and FW budget at project completion; and (v) how much funds
can user charges reasonably generate at project completion.
3.29      Incremental recurrent costs including contingencies at project completion
would be about Rs. 300 million (US$9.6 million at current exchange rates) annually.
This is a 38% increase in recurrent costs from current levels. APVVP's grant receipts



35
in FY94 were about Rs. 480 million, which comprised of about Rs. 370 million for
salaries and Rs. 110 million for non-salary costs (Annex 3: Public Expenditures on the
Health Sector in AP). As a percentage of the state's overall current budget, these
incremental recurrent costs at project completion amount to only 0.3%. As a percentage
of the state's current health and FW budget, the incremental recurrent costs at project
completion will be about 5.6%. In FY94, health and FW allocations comprised about
5.8% of the state's total public spending. Of the state's total health and FW budget,
allocations to APVVP amounted to about 13%. Assuming current allocation pattern
between the three levels of health care were to remain the same, at project completion
expenditures allocated to APVVP would have to increase by 7 percentage points to about
20% of the total health and FW budget of the state.
3.30      These increments should not be a problem for the state to provide. The AP
Government would meet the incremental recurrent cost needs by increasing the size of
the health budget and by reallocating incremental resources from the tertiary to the
secondary level of health care. The AP Government has provided assurances that the
required resources will be made available. A commitment to this effect is being sought
in the statement on Health Sector Development Policy. At negotiations, the Government
of AP and APVVP provided assurances that they would ensure that allocation of project
funds each year for APVVP would be fully additional to that in FY95, and that APVVP
shall be provided resources for recurrent expenditures on a timely basis adequate to meet
its resource requirement under its annual operating plan for each year.
3.31      Analysis also shows that when 15-20% of beds are delineated as private
paying wards in addition to some other user charges, APVVP would be able to recover
between Rs. 45 to 55 million annually at project completion (Annex 4: Cost Recovery).
This would reduce the recurrent cost burden by an estimated 15-18%. As a percentage
of non-salary recurrent costs which would be financed in part by user charges, these
estimates reflect a considerably greater share and would provide much needed funds for
purchasing drugs and essential supplies. To this effect, the Government has reiterated that
it is committed to introducing user charges while protecting the health care needs of the
poorest segments of society. A commitment to introducing user charges has been
included in the Letter on Health Sector Policy, as noted previously.
H. Indigenous Populations
3.32        A beneficiary assessment study undertaken during project preparation has:
(i) identified through informed participation the health care needs of tribal communities
and constraints in provision of these needs; and (ii) recommended plans for delivering
adequate and quality health care for members of these communities. An important finding
is the low hospital utilization rates of tribal population. The project's tribal strategy is
aimed at increasing the demand and seeking timely care by improving the quality of
services and providing effective IEC to better inform tribal populations of the benefits
of using first referral facilities. Tribal peoples would be a substantial project beneficiary



36
group. The number of beds at area and community hospitals located in tribal areas will
be increased from 270 beds to 560 beds, reflecting a share of beds at secondary hospitals
that is much more commensurate with their proportion in the overall population of AP.
In addition, to increasing the bed strength in tribal hospitals, the project would:
(a) strengthen linkages between primary and secondary health care services; (b) provide
an incentive package to doctors and other medical staff in tribal areas to encourage them
to accept assignment in these areas; (c) increase the appropriate utilization of non-tribal
medical system by tribal population and reduce the cost to tribals of utilizing the system.
At negotiations, the Government of AP and APVVP provided assurances that the
Government of AP and APVVP would carry out the project in tribal blocks in
accordance with the strategy agreed with IDA (Annex 14). Understanding was reached
that children of doctors resident in tribal areas would be given preference in admission
at Government-run residential schools and places in schools for scheduled tribes and
scheduled castes; other incentives such as provision of housing, enhanced training
opportunities and transfer to an urban area for 4-5 years of service would also be
provided. The Tribal Service in AP (created in 1994) already provides for doctors
recruited into this service to be formalized into regular service after 4-5 years in tribal
areas.
1. Envirommental Aspects
3.33      The proposed project would not raise any environmental concerns. Much of
the construction will be upgradation at existing sites and only three new construction sites
have been planned for. The project would, however, improve the present status of
medical waste disposal through appropriate disposal methods.
J. Land Acquisition
3.34      The process of additional land, where required, for the extension of existing
hospitals has been initiated and most sites have been made available. IDA has been
assured that none of the sites for hospital upgradation would entail involuntary
resettlement of any persons.
K. Accounting and Auditing
3.35      The project would be subject to normal GOAP accounting and auditing
procedures which are considered acceptable to IDA. At negotiations, the Government of
AP and APVVP provided assurances that: (i) project accounts would be maintained and
audited annually in accordance with sound auditing standards consistently applied by
independent and qualified auditors acceptable to IDA; and (ii) certified copies of the
annual SOEs together with the auditor's report, which would comment separately on the
SOEs, would be submitted to IDA no later than nine months after the close of each fiscal
year.



37
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS
A. Benefits
4.1        The policy reforms envisaged under the project would improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of health care services at the community, block and district levels. By
strengthening AP's first referral health systems the project would optimize resource use,
especially medical manpower and diagnostic equipment, avoid duplication and wastage,
and reduce overcrowding at tertiary health care institutions. Analysis of utilization of
medical services suggests that at least a third of the all cases that are currently treated
at tertiary facilities could be treated, and at a lower cost, at secondary facilities when
these are properly staffed and equipped. In addition, the project would provide a
sustainable and replicative framework that could be subsequently used to reorient the
health systems in other states of India.
4.2        In terms of investments, the project would have the following benefits. First,
the proposed project would have a direct impact on improving the health status of the
people in AP, especially the poor in the rural areas. It would reduce mortality, morbidity
and disability and thereby increase the potential earning capacity of the poor. Second,
strengthening the first line referral facilities and making them more client friendly would
also encourage patients to seek timely care resulting in higher cure rates at lower costs.
Third, the proposed project should also help regulate and, in substantial measure, reduce
patient flow to the tertiary hospitals, where treatment per patient is more expensive.
Fourth, the strengthening and upgrading of secondary level facilities would lend
credibility and vital support to the primary health care system for implementing the
various national and vertical health programs, and providing basic health care in rural
areas. Finally, an adequately functioning health system at the block and district levels
would encourage a greater participation of the private sector in health care through
improved functioning of referral mechanisms.
B. Program Objective Categories
4.3        Poverty Aspects. The project is directly relevant to the Bank's anti-poverty
strategy. The project would provide better quality of health care services to all 23
districts in the state. Preliminary estimates suggests that the potential beneficiaries are
expected to increase from its level of 9 million outpatients who were treated at APVVP
hospitals during the past year to about 13 million at project completion. The number of
inpatients is similarly expected to increase from its current level of 0.6 million to about
1 million at project completion. About two-thirds of the beneficiaries using APVVP
services currently belong to the lower four strata of the decile groups and this proportion
is expected to remain much the same. Therefore, a large proportion of the beneficiaries
will be poor and underprivileged segments of the state's population. By improving the
health status of poor people through reductions in mortality and morbidity, the project



38
would increase their earning potential and assist in making them more productive
members of society.
4.4        Gender Issues. In general, the project would provide much greater access
to women, especially rural women, for receiving health care and hospital services by
increasing access to facilities in remote areas. It would also improve the quality of
services that women receive at existing facilities by improving and upgrading clinical
effectiveness at these facilities. More specifically, the project would reduce maternal
mortality by addressing the most critical gaps for an effective safe motherhood program.
Essential obstetrics care is already being provided under the CSSM project but the
provision of emergency obstetrics care is lacking. This project would fill that gap by
strengthening the referral system from the community to the community hospital level
where emergency obstetrics care is provided. The improvements in the referral system
and the strengthening of links between PHCs and community hospitals will assist in
providing timely access to emergency obstetrics care, and shorten the waiting and
transportation time for those most critically in need of emergency care. There will be 80
community hospitals in the state, in addition to the area and district hospitals, that will
be properly staffed and equipped to deliver emergency obstetrics care. In addition, bed
strength at 2 district and 3 area maternity hospitals under the APVVP system will be
increased from 266 beds to 450 beds.
C. Risks
4.5        The project carries several risks that are associated with PHN projects in
general in India. These include basic implementation problems such as slow start-up,
poor procurement, slow disbursement, frequent management turnovers, untimely and
inadequate flow of funds and poor maintenance of buildings and equipment. Most of
these risks can be substantially reduced through careful project design. Measures have
been incorporated in the project to minimize these risks, several of which are laid out in
Table 1.1.
4.6        There are two additional risks associated with this project. Institutional. Since
this would be the first project to reorient the health system of a state in India, the
capacity of existing institutions to undertake systemic improvements and to establish a
more rational health delivery system has not been tested in India. The institutional
strengthening aspects that are in-built in the project are expected to address this risk.
These institutional aspects include: strengthening the strategic planning capacity in the
Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare; enhancing APVVP's implementation
capacity through strengthening its organizational structure, systems and procedures,
culture of service delivery, resources and training; and enhancing the Infrastructure
Development Corporation's capacity to undertake supervision monitoring of the
construction program. Financial: Another risk would be the potential hurdles faced by
the state government to instituting user charges because of the politically sensitive nature
of this issue. The AP Government has reaffirmed its commitment to institute user charges



39
while protecting those who cannot afford to pay. The on-going study on the burden of
disease and cost-effectiveness would provide greater information about cost of specific
public health interventions. By providing estimates of cost-effectiveness in terms of costs
per DALY gained of selected public health interventions, it would provide an empirical
basis to set user charges. These results could thus provide the Government with greater
flexibility in charging user fees. Yet another financial risk is the overall financial status
of the state. This is a risk associated with projects in all other sectors in India. The states
will eventually need to adjust and reduce their fiscal deficits. The overall difficult fiscal
situation of the state is a risk in terms of the adequacy of funds allocated to the health
sector, especially the secondary level of health care. The Government of AP has provided
assurances in a statement on Health Sector Development Policy that it will provide
sufficient resources to meet the financial needs and adopt key policies that will assist
APVVP generate additional funds. Specifically, the cost recovery mechanisms proposed
under the project will relieve some of the recurrent cost burden faced by the AP
Government.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       The Government of AP has furnished a Health Sector Development Policy
Program (Annex 2). Availability of IDA assistance for the project would be subject to
the implementation of actions set out in the Reform Program (para 2.8).
5.2       At negotiations, the Government of AP and APVVP provided assurances
that:
(a)  The Government of AP shall carry out the Reform Program including:
resource enhancement for the secondary and primary levels of health care;
safeguard of resource allocations for operations and maintenance purposes
to provide for adequate amounts of drugs and essential supplies, and
maintenance of equipment and buildings at secondary hospitals under
APVVP; selection, employment and transfer of staff; implementation of
service improvements and user charges in accordance with an agreed
program and time schedule; and retention of a third or more of user charges
by collecting hospitals (para 2.8);
(b)  The Government of AP would ensure that a strategic planning cell would be
set up by June 30, 1995 within the Department of Health, Medical and
Family Welfare that would report directly to the Secretary of the Department
(para 2.8(f));
(c)  GOAP would carry out by December 31, 1995, a review of the policy
framework for private provision of health services in AP; and thereafter



40
discuss with the Association recommendations arising from such review
(para 2.10);
(d)  APVVP  would engage key  additional headquarters personnel and
APHMHIDC would engage key additional personnel to be recruited under
the project by June 30, 1995 (para 2.11);
(e)  not later than July 1, 1997, GOAP would carry out, jointly with GOI and
IDA, a detailed mid-term review of project progress including a management
review of APVVP and thereafter implement its recommendations (para
2.12);
(f)  APVVP would adopt within six months after upgradations of each facility
staffing and technical norms at its district, area and community hospitals as
agreed at negotiations to ensure the quality of services (paras 2.16 and 2.18);
(g)  GOAP and APVVP shall strengthen the referral system between the primary,
secondary and tertiary levels by July 1, 1995 by: (i) establishing District
Referral Committees in all 23 districts in coordination with the Directorate
of Health Services; (ii) issuing appropriate administrative directives to
strengthen the management of the referral system; (iii) implementing referral
protocols; (iv) implementing clinical management protocols; and
(v) establishing an incentive system with differentiated user fees for users
and non-users and allowing patients to by-pass waiting lines when they carry
a referral slip (para 2.20);
(h)  GOAP and APVVP would review with IDA by April 30 of each year the
progress of project implementation over the preceding twelve months and
prepare an annual work plan for the following twelve months acceptable to
IDA (para 3.27);
(i)   Government of AP would ensure that allocation of project funds each year
for APVVP would be fully additional to that in FY95, and that APVVP shall
be provided resources for recurrent expenditures on a timely basis adequate
to meet its resource requirement under its annual operating plan for each
year (para 3.30);
(j) Government of AP and APVVP would carry out the project in tribal blocks
in accordance with the strategy agreed with IDA (para 3.32), (Annex 14)
and
(k)  (i) a project account would be maintained and audited annually in accordance
with sound auditing standards consistently applied by independent and
qualified auditors acceptable to IDA; and (ii) certified copies of the annual



41
SOEs together with the auditors' report, which would comment separately
on the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA no later than nine months after the
close of each fiscal year (para 3.35).
5.3       With the above assurances and agreement, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 90.7 million (US$133.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.






- 42 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 8
Project Costs
Cost By Component
fTR_u U eAil                          MIIU_e                 S       % Tam
c_m                                                                                                  r_   mm
I-.   TrFoui         Toeu       Lo      Fors'm Tol    Exc.m             Co
I 1S
Iasl  n_.ps n  dll  Pnuw                                15.93       .67      16.60          5         .0        5       4%         0%
Ib-Stiq_..Lm uinCAflv                      1N  2 1                  UZ      112.1t        Li          1       Li        LAl        II
Sub$"       120.13       935      129.48       3.3          3       40        7%        3%
11vm  S_'i QWi", A_  & EffedhN                 DaOe,4m HPa.
Ua1.       A EaumiDiammHcipm                           7t1.61    141.33    923.01        24.4        4.4      23.1      15%        21%
is - Uu CJicI EfFawum   m S _                p 7                  1 1 13a.3 ZL42 UL2    L1    2      41          Z2     I"         in
Sb        1,4U8.94    272.93   1,761.79       46.5        8.5      55.1      15%        40S
Ml Upsw  ieA,I  QinIMt, Am   mi EIIbdhim   Ft Ana & rC-In   Hhspkub
3a. -sb m A Eu.Am    Au C _oMuI HOWIMl              1,074.00    194.16   1,268.16       33.6        6.1      39.6      15%        29%
3b Upgisawuai Mlft         uAmja-aA iCo m ia           923.07    233.77   1,161.S4       21.3        7.5      36.3      21%        26%
kc - I   s Fu      g d1 31111i                          22L       I=         6f           Li          i.2      La       4A1        LI
S _umI   2.032.08    462.91   2.494."         63.5       14.5      78.0       19%       57%
Tow ASLuum  COS1                                         3,641.15    745.11   4,336.26      113.8       23.3    137.1       17%       100%
Phviui COWM     _.                                     315.13     74.30     389.43        9.8        2.3      12.2      19%        9%
Pr" Caauoqmu                                         1,090.00    217.52   1,307.52        7.8        1.9       9.7      19%        7%
TitoePRW3CCOSIS                                          5,066.28   1.036.93   6,083.21     131.4       27.5    158.9        17%       116%



- 43 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 8
Cost by Categories of Expenditure
(Rupe MiPllonl                 (usS Mill")                  s    T1
Liocl    Forein     Todnl     Lcei   Forelm       Tota   Fldimge   Co
1neum   Coat
Civi Works(Renovauoo&Exteaszou)                   1.651.14    291.38   1,942.52     51.6       9.1     60.7      15%       44S
Profnoai Services                                   155.40    38.85     194.25       4.9       1.2      6.1      20%       4%
Furcine                                             62.19    , 6.91      69.10       1.9        .2      2.2      10%       2%
EquWmen (Medical)                                  13S.36    207.53    345.89        4.3       6.5     10.8      60%        8%
Eqfimn  (Other)                                     15.50      3.87      19.37        .5        .1       .6      20%         -
Vehices                                              13.32     39.97     53.29        .4       1.2       1.7     75%        1%
Medical Lab Stpplies                                33.76       ."44     42.20       1.1        .3       1.3     20%        1%
Medicines                                           98.70     98,70    197.40        3.1       3.1      6.2      50%        5%
Od.b  Supplies                                      110.96              110.96       3.5         -      3.5        -        3%
MiS/lEC Matenals                                    22.69      7 56      30.25         7         2        9      25%        1 %
LocalTranin                                         3t.09         -      38.09       1.2         *       1.2                 I%
Lal Coasultants                                      3.70          -      3.70        . I                 . I      -
Soies                                               20.10         -      20.10        .6         -       .6
Worbbops                                              1.95        -        .95        .1         -       . I
Fiilowsups (Forcipn)                                  .47      4.19       4.65        .0        .I       .1      90%
Felowwhips( lical)                                    .8         -        .8t        .0                 .0
TOW  lnveelncoals                                  2,367.20    707.40   3,074.60     74.0      22.1      96.1     23%       70%
Reewima CoaS
Salries of Addidoal Staff                          934.58         -    934.58       29.2               29.2                21%
Opeional Expem                                      168.54     18.73    187.27       5.3        .6      5.9      10%        4%
Building M inenance                                 52.02      5.78      57.80       1.6        .2       1.5     10%        I %
11ipeaW Mainnce                                    I18.81     13.20    132.01        3.7        .4      4.1      10%       3%
Total Recurres,Costs                                1,273.95    3771   1.311.66       39.8       1.2     41.0       3%       30%
Total BASELDIE COM                                   3,641.15    745.11  4,386.26      113.8      23.3    137.1      17%       100%
Physical ConOtgences                               315.13    74.30    389.43         9.8       2.3     12.2      19%       9%
Price Contingencies                               1,090.00    217,52   1.307.52      7.8       1.9      9.7      19%       7%
Total PROJECT COSMS                                  5,046.28  1,036.93  6,083.21      131.4      27.5    158.9      17%       116%



- 44 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 8
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(Costs in Rs. Millions)
Fardgm
Ban Cost                                           Exchap
195    1996    1997    199        1999    2000    2001        Tota             A _neu
hnvuiuie Cams
CivilWorks(Renovauon&Ex  iaons)         97.1   194.3   388.5   679.9   485.6    97.1           -    1.942.5      15%      291.4
Professioal Senncc                       9.7    19.4    38.9    68.0    48.6         9.7       -      194.3      20%       38.9
Funtire                                  3.5      6.9    13.t    24.2    17.3        3.5       -       69.1      10%        6.9
Equipnem (Medical)                      34.6    69.2   103.8    69.2    69.2           -       *      345.9      60%      207.5
Eqt.iem (Other)                           1.9     3.9      5.8     3.9      3.9        -       -       19.4      20%        3.9
Vehicles                                  2.7    16.0    26.6       8.0       -        -               53.3      75%       40.0
Medical Lab Supplies                     4.2      6.3      6.3     6.3      6.3      6.3     6.3       42.2      20%        8.4
Medicines                                19.7    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6         197.4      50%       98.7
OCher Supplies                           11.1    16.6    16.6    16.6    16.6    16.6    16.6          111.0
MISIIEC Macenals                         0.6      1.S      3.6     5.1      6.4      6.4      6.4      30.3      25%        7.6
Local Training                           3.8      7.6      7.6     7.6      5.7      5.7       -       38.1         -         -
Local Consulana                          0.1      0.2      0.4     0.6      0.3      0.8     0.8        3.7         -
Snadia                                    1.0     3.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      3.0      1.0      20.1 
Workshops                                0.1      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.4      0.3     0.3        2.0                   -
Felwshtps (Foreign)                      0.1      0.3      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.8     0.7        4.7      90%        4.2
FdewiUps (Local)                         0.0      0.1      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.1        0.9
TtOWlnvesuina  Cos                        190.2   375.5   647.1   924.5   695.5   180.0    61.8    3074.6          23%       707.4
RdrT1 Cods
SalariesofAddiomlStaff                  46.7    84.1   112.1   130.8   186.9   186.9   186.9          934.6
Oionai Expat                             9.4    16.9    22.5    26.2    37.5    37.5    37.5          187.3      10%       18.7
Building Mai wne                           -      2.9      5.8     8.7      8.7    11.6    20.2        57.3      10%        5.8
Eqwpmem Mainteance                       6.6    11.9    15.3    18.5    26.4    26.4    26.4          132.0      10%        13.2
TotalRecurrentColt                         62.7   115.7   156.2   184.2   259.4   262.3   271.0    1.311.7          3%        37.7
TotsABASELflECOS"S                         252.9   491.2   803.3  1.108.7   954.9   442.4   332.8    4386.3          17%      745.1
Physical Conutingence                   22.8    44.5    74.3   103.8    85.7    34.5    23.8          389.4      19%       74.3
Price Contingercies                      12.3    66.3   171.2   322.3   355.2   200.1   179.7    1.307.5         17%      217.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                         281.5   602.0  1.048.7  1.534.9  1,395.8   677.0   536.3    6.083.2      17%    1.036.9
Taxes                                    17.5    37.6    67.3    92.4    77.8    24.3    15.6         333.0
Forein Exchange                         61.7   135.7   230.5   268.2   228.0    68.0    44.3    1.036.9



- 45 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 8
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(Costs in US$ Millions)
F-ON
Ba  Cost                                           E     p
9m    199        1997    1994    199       2000    2001       Total      N      A _muW
Innt C a
Civil Works(Ro A &EusavAkm)              3.0      6.1    12.1    21.2    15.2        3.0               60.7      15%        9.1
Profnasioml Suvic                        0.3      0.6      1.2     2.1      1.5      0.3        -       6.1      20%         1.2
Furniru                                  0.1      0.2      0.4      0.8     0.5      0.1       -        2.2      10%        0.2
Eqpit (Medical)                          1.1      2.2      3.2     2.2      2.2                -        10.8     60%        6.5
Equimme (Oder)                           0.1      0.1      0.2     0.1      0.1                -        0.6      20%        0.1
V d                                      0.1      0.5      0.8     0.2        -        *        *        1.7     75%         1.2
Medical LAb Suppliu                      0.1      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2        1.3      20%        0.3
Mdi                                      0.6      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.9     0.9        6.2      50%        3.1
Otder Supplie                            0.3      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5       3.5         -
MISAIEC M    iea                         0.0      0.1      0.1     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2       0.9      25%        0.2
LoA  Trnin4                              0.1      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2       -         1.2        -
Local Consulmm                           0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0        0.1                   -
S.idic                                   0.0      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0       0.6
Woqfp                                    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.1
Fei.os (Foteg                           0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.1      90%        0.1
Fellowhips (Local)                       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0
Tdoa llnves_Ccm                             5.9    11.7    20.2    28.9    21.7        5.6      1.9       96.1     23%        22.1
Recre.  Ce-                                                                     -                 - 
Salu,ia of AddieonalStaff                1.5      2.6      3.5     4.1      5.8      5.8      5.8      29.2         -
Operu  ap.                               0.3      0.5      0.7     0.8      1.2      1.2      1.2       5.9      10%        0.6
Building Mainenance                        -      0.1      0.2     0.3      0.3      0.4     0.6         1.8     10%        0.2
Equ4mmMaib                               0.2      0.4      0.5     0.6      0.8      0.8     0.8        4.1      10%        0.4
Tota Recwst Cub                             2.0     3.6      4.9      5.8     8.1      8.2      8.5       41.0      3%         1.2
TIalBASELI4UCOflI                            7.9    15.4    25.1    34.6    29.8    13.8    10.4          137.1      17%        23.3
Pbyl       C _ condass                   0.7      1.4      2.3     3.2      2.7      1.1     0.7        12.2     19%        2.3
PriceComLtm                             -0.1     0.3      1.2     2.4      2.8      1.6     1.5        9.7      19%         1.9
Tdol PROJECT COS1S                           3.l    17.0    28.6    40.3    35.3    16.5    12.6           158.9     17%       27.5
Turn                                     0.5      1.1      1.8     2.4      2.0      0.6     0.4        8.8
ForeignExchae                            1.3      3.8     6.3      7.0      5.8      1.7     1.1       27.5



- 46 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 8
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(Total Cost in US$ Million)
GOP                 IIIRD               TOW                FM.   (EKidL  Do" A
A_ingme   C;       A A   _     %                              Eic.  Ta)    Taxi
Civil Work                                        10.60     15%      60.06     85%        70.86     45%       10.77   54.94       4.95
Cowmkamt. Stwis. Wokhops. Proftul Sarvi s          0.00        -      8.0    100%          8.00      5%        1.44     6.57         -
FwiOe                                              0.25     10%       2.26     90%         2.51      2%        0.26     2.06      0.18
Vehicle                                            0.23     12%        1.69    81%          1.92      1%       1.44    0.25       0.23
Equipm                                             1.59     12%       11.65    88%         13.23     8%        7.71     3.94      1.59
Mduins. Lab 9Su         &Co     s                  1.29     10%       11.59    90%         12.88     8%        3.99     8.08      0.81
MIS/IECMazais                                      0.11     10%        1.02    90%          1.13      1%       0.29     0.77      0.08
Local Trni  SuCS                                               -       1.31    100%         1.31      1%                1.31
Fellowsuips                                        0.00        *      0.20    100%         0.20      0%        0.15     0.05
SaJari                                             8.41     26%      24.62     75%        33.04     21%           -   33.04
Opemios E       ledigu                             1.77    26%        5.18     75%         6.95      4%        0.71     5.76      0.49
iding          -                                   0.62    29%         1.56    72%         2.13       1%       0.22     1.80      0.15
EoPipwew Mwm.                                      1.25    26%        3.65     75%         4.90      3%        0.50     4.06      0.34
Tota                                                  26.12     16%     132.73     84%        158.0    100%       27.46   122.63      8.81



- 47 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
(Costs in USS Millions)
Inww Se-c Qualia.         Improw Savics QmaaeW. Acce. a Aim A
Inwartioil Saw,6ienim      AM    a Dism. Hoopeals              Conrw.gy Hem" Cps
UPd
Inmpov      S   f                       UppU           AiM          AM           n wo
policy  nImp_    Dls.           m 4    Clilci    C _AM    Cos_    R84u
Fru,wwork     Capaday        Hospials  EfVawus_              _       lIloFpik     Ftun           T TAL    %       Am_
Cav Worb (Reooa &Exusainfs                   -                       2-.54         0.09         35.0                --                  60.70     0O%     6.1
Proeaoa Se rv-                                             -          2.55         0.01          3.51                           -        6.07    10%      0.6
Fur                                          -             -                       0.74             -           1.42            -        2.16    10%      0.2
E*6qum (Medical                                            -                       2.52             -           8.29                    10.81     10%     1.1
Equpmen O r)                              0.02          0 32                       0 24             -          0.02             -        0 61    10%      0 1
V dlaic                                   0.01          0 13             -         0.10                        0.46          0.96        1 67    t0%      02
MedkalLabSu Sppi                                                                     N 0.79                    013              -        1.32    10%      01
Md'.'                                                       -                      3.70                         2.47                     6.17    IOS      0.6
Odw swplum                                   -                                      1.39                        2.05                     3.47     10%     0.3
MISIIEC ManI                                 .          0.16             -            -                            -         0.78        0.95     IO%     0.1
LACMITrUWiS                                             0.6              -         0.19                        0.12          0.02        1 19     55      0A1
LaadCosuml                                0.10              -                      0.0-             -                        0.02        0.12     1s      0.0
Saws                                      0.16          0.42             -                   -             .                 0.05        063 a    0%      01 
W.bhops                                   0.03          0.01                       0.01             -          0.01                      0.06     5 %     0.0
Fei.w.hi  *Fo,m J,                                                                                             0.15                      0.15     55      0.0
Fedo      (Local)                                                                 OM 0.0                      0.01             -        0.03     35      0.0
Tod lowi         C_s                        0.32           1.91         28.09        9.0          35.56          15.55          1.3       965.O     10%     9 5
Sswm C                                                                                                                                              0%
Saiu  dofAddionldiSuff                   0.09          096              -        12.67             -          15.4                     29.21    51       1.5
Op(um       6_aIzpa                       011           066                        1.95             -           2.93         0.20        5.a5    10%      06
Uiildq M     uAMin                           --                       0.75         0.01          1.05                                    1 81     10%     0,2
Equ_p    M       _                           .                                     1.71             -          2.35             -        4 13    10%      0 4
TWelullln         Co                        0.20           1.62         0.75         16.41          1.05         20.76         0.20       40.99      6%     2.6
Tld MASEUNE COSTS                             0.52           353         25.54        26.21         39.63         36.31          2.03      13707      9%    12.2
PIAC       aonmsga                        0.04          0.26          2.U1         1.93          3.96          2.54          020        12.17     0%        -
PrimComa m                                0.04          0.25          L."          2.06          2.58          2.73          0. 15       966      S%      OS
Tuol raomIcr CoSS                             0.60          4.04         33.61        30.25         46.17         41.61          2.38      155.90     S%    12.9
TUN                                       0.01          0.13          2.14         1.22          2."            2.14         0.21        R.51     9%      0.5
FaorgpE-cIp                               0.02          0.32          5.23         4.56          7.15          5.76          1.09       27.46     9%      2.5



- 48 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 8
Project Components by Year
(Base Costs in Rs. Million)
Ban Cost
1995     1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001       Totel
I Inktdoaal Stregthfeag
Is - Improve dfe Policy Framewoet                           0.8       1.9      2.6      2.8      3.3       2.9      2.4        16.6
lb- Strenghen implemenaon Capacy                            LA       1i2      21.                MA 1      1       122        1120
Subtol        8.2     17.8      22.9    21.9      23.7     20.5      14.5      129.5
11 lmprove Servce Quality, Acce & Effectiveness at Distrid Hosptal
2a-RRnovateAE.uendDistHosptals                              44.9     91.1    182.2    318.2    228.3      49.8      8.4       923.0
2b -Upgrade Clinil Effectiveness an Secondary Hospilals     560      2S      1261      1307     1587    135       133.4       831.1
Subtl       101.0    189.2    308.3    448.9    387.1    185.4    141.9    1,761.8
m  iinrve Se vie Quaily, Acm  ad Bffectlves at Area & Community Hospials
3a - RonaoehExtendArea &ConumityHospitals                   61.7    125.1    250.3    437.2    313.7      68.4      11.7    1.268.2
3b- UpgradeCliicalEffectivenammAreaiCoam   Hospital         79.5    147.4    202.1    190.5    223.4    161.0    158.0    1,161.8
3c - Improve Functoaing of Referral                          Li      ILl      l        1 Q2l     La         _        ,         61
Subtotal    143.8    284.2    472.0    637.9    544.1    236.4    176.4    2.495.0
Tota BASELINE COsrs                                            252.9    491.2    803.3  1.108.7    954.9    442.4    332.8    4.386.3
Physical Conungences                                          22.8     44.5     74.3    103.8      85.7     34.5      23.8      389.4
Price Coningencues
Local      8.5     48.0    128.0    259.2    290.9    178.2    163.3       1,076.1
Foreign     0.6       3.9     10.7      16.5     17.2      6.0      4.5        59.5
Subta lInflslio       9.2     51.9    138.7    275.7    308.1    184.1    167.8    1.135.5
Devahaion       3.6     14.4      32.5     46.6     47.1      16.0     11.9      172.0
S_Aa a Prke Codtlagemks        12.S     66.3    171.2    322.3    355.2    200.1    179.7    1,307.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            288.5    602.0  1.048.7  1,534.9  1,395.8    677.0    536.3    6,083.2
Tax=                                                          17.5     37.6      67.3     92.4     77.8      24.8     15.6      333.0
Foreign Exchange                                              61.7    135.7    230.5    268.2    228.0      68.0      44.8     1,036.9



- 49 -
Annex 1
Page 8 of 8
Project Components by Financiers
(Total Costs in US$ Million)
GO"                IBRD                TOal              FW.   (E=L  Du 
Amim         S     A _Aa"       S      Am_t         S        Ezc    Taxe       TAM
I   h          all
Is-   heq. de PoCYFn                                  0.06   10.1%        0.53   89.2%        0.60    0.4%       0.02    0.56       0.01
lb - rl-      P         C                             Q_       1. 311     3 16 862S           i.    LAI          QL       Llt       UI
Suuial    0.62   13.4%         4.01   86.6%        4.63    2.9%       0.34    4.14       0.14
n [mumw. smvim. Q.aiwy, Aceem & Mectivmnew at D       Si   Hoap
2a.RmvmeA E- DistHapa                                  4.72   14.0%      28.89   86.0%       33.61   21.1%       5.23    26.24      2.14
2b- Up$rab Clmcal Effctiavne                          52    198%         422    U).t2       3=    12.Q1         16    2414        L2Z
S=bul    10.69   16.7%        53.14   83.3%       63.83   40.2%       10.09   50.38      3.37
[ Improve So vkm QmW, A=c= md Nh Ulem at A. & C_om y H1slih
-a.fm    A&EP 4Are&Ca.AC yHo.p-k                       6.48   14.0%      39.69   86.0%       46.17   29.1%       7.11   36.05       2.95
3b-UppadsC lnIMIE&vdm1siACOMM Ho_Pfi                   8.04   19.2%      33.84   80.3%       41.38   26.4%       8.76   30.96       2.14
3c - improve Fum  of Rderrl                           Q.2-2     .         LM 120.0            2.31 LJ   1        Lo       Lm        021
S_m1U    14.81   15.1%        75.62   84.9%       90.43   19.0%       17.03   68.10      5.30
TOW DI.       _                                           26.12   16.4%     132.78   83.6%      158.90  100.0%       27.46   122.63     8.81



-50                                        Annex-
a ge1 of S
From      Mr. B.V. Rama Rao
Special Chief Secretary
Medical,
Health and Family Welfare Department
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Hyderabad
To        Mr. Heinz Vergin
Director India Department
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
Subject    Andhra Pradesh District Health Systems Project
Health Sector Development Policy
Government of Andhra Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidbana Parisbad have
proposed to IDA a project for the development of First Referral Health Systems. I am
pleased to send you in this connection the attached Policy Matrix reflecing Government
decisions in respect of health policy reform.
Special Chief Sec
Medical, Hlth and Family Welfare
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Hyderabad



Heatth Sector Develoomont Policy Program in Andhra Pradesh
ISSUE                                  EFFECT                                 PROPOSED CHANGE OR ACTION
1. Adequacy of the overall size of   Public health expenditure in AP is about 5.8% of    Recognising the link between basic public health provision and
the health budget to meet public    the state budget and 1.3% of GDP. These health   poverty alleviation, the Government will maintain the share of
health goals                     expenditures are inadequate to provide essential  health sector allocations within the overall budget at least at
primary health care together with a basic package   the current level.
of clinical/curative services.
2. Imbalances in public          Primary and secondary level care have been     The Project State shall, pursuant to the Reform Program,
expenditure between different    neglected at the expense of tertiary care.      ensure that the share of the primary and secondary levels in
levels of the health sector      Underfunding of these levels have resulted in   the total resources (plan and non-plan) allocated by the
shortage of drugs, lack of maintenance of      Project State for the health sector shall be increased each
facilities, shortage of doctors and other health  year until (and including) the Project State's financial year
care personnel. Moreover the imbalance has led  2000.
to duplication of services and inefficient use of
resources. In particular, the current overuse of
tertiary facilities means that treatment costs per
patient are needlessly high for many ailments.
3. Management                    Management of public health facilities in AP is  District, area and community hospitals will be strengthened by
weak which produces low service efficiency and    improving their implementation capacity. Four key areas will
effectiveness. Moreover lack of appropriate    be addressed: strengthening structures, systems and
management arrangements and authority to act   procedures; culture of service delivery; resources; and
means that there are few incentives for hospitals   training. At APVVP level the focus would be on improving
and their staff to improve hospital operation and  management effectiveness; at community, area and district
quality of services.                           hospitals the emphasis would be on strengthening service
delivery management. These changes will be facilitated by
allowing institutions to retain a third or more of the income
generated through user charges (eg. payments for private
beds) for use at the point of collection.
IA



4. Quality of and access to        Quality of medical services is inadequate. In     Quality and access will be improved, especially for the poor
hospital services                  addition, access to health care services is limited    and underserved, by: i) upgrading and expanding physical
especially for populations in the least developed  capacity; ii) upgrading clinical effectiveness and quality of
areas of the state particularly women and tribal  services at area and community hospitals; iii) improving the
groups.                                          referral system eg. for essential obstetric care for women with
high risk pregnancies; and iv) adopting staffing and technical
norms at its community, area and district hospitals in line with
those agreed with IDA at negototiations and specified in the
SAR.
The plan to address the needs of tribal groups will aim to
improve the demand for hospital services in their areas both
by the above improvements in quality and IEC; and also
through the provision of incentives for health personnel
stationed there.
5. Strategic planning              Inadequate strategic planning capacity in the    The capacity for strategic planning will be enhanced through
health sector has resulted in sub-optimal use of  establishment of a Planning Cell in the Dept. of Health,
resources. Decisions on public health spending   Medical and Family Welfare. This will, either independently or
priorities presently do not take into full       through specific research projects: monitor the role of the   u,
consideration: the size and scope of services    private sector; review the suitability of present regulations   9
provided by private-commercial and voluntary     relating to the quality of private care provision; analyze the
sectors; the health manpower supply situation;   evolving epidemiological profile in AP; monitor the burden of
and the predicted future epidemiological profile in    disease and recommend cost-effective means for achieving
AP.                                              best use of limited resources; and undertake periodic review
of the health manpower supply situation and training needs in
the state.
6. Workforce                       Improvement of services at APVVP hospitals is    APVVP will be given authority to recruit staff. This will
significantly restricted by workforce problems,  include authority: i) to advertise, appoint, promote and
both in terms of quality and quantity. The number  transfer staff internally; ii) to post staff as needed especially
of staff sanctioned at hospitals does not fit current  in tribal areas; iii) to introduce appropriate incentives; and
needs; there are many vacancies due to poor      iv) to relax service rules if necessary to maintain the provision
cumbersome recruitment procedures, lack of       of services when appropriately qualified staff are unavailable.
incentives for staff and supply side problems in
the case of remote rural and tribal areas.
o 



7. The role of the private sector  The health services development strategy of the  The role of the private sector would be continuously
Government has not taken sufficient account of  monitored, the quality of services provided by private care
the scope and coverage of non-Governmental      practitioners would be assessed and regulations relating to
providers and the role of this sector in delivering    improvements in service quality would be evaluated (see 5
quality health care is underdeveloped. Therefore    above). In addition, referrals between private primary care and
the Government is inhibited in prioritising and  the public sector secondary level diagnosis, treatment and
rationalising its investment in the public health  care would be encouraged through District Referral
sector.                                         Committees. The government will carry out by December 31,
1995 a review of the policy framework for private provision
of health services in AP.
8. User charges                   Inadequate charging of user fees has resulted in  The Government would issue regulations to facilitate APVVP
low levels of funds for supplies, operations and  to levy charges while protecting the poorest sections of
maintenance.                                    society. The guiding principle of user charges would be: to
target the receipts particularly on non-salary recurrent costs;
to charge for amenities such as private beds; and to charge
for procedures that are low in cost-effectiveness in order to
pay for those interventions that are high in cost-effectiveness.
GOAP and APVVP would ensure that at least 20% of all beds
at district and area hospitals would be dedicated as paying
wards as soon as basic services are improved at these
facilities. Other charges such as a nominal registration fee and
for diagnostics and drugs would be phased in as
improvements in basic services are provided. (See item No.3
for retaining income from user charges at individual hospitals.)
For reasons of poverty alleviation and gender equity, some
patients such as children under five years of age and women
with high-risk pregnancies will be exempt from user-charges.
Other exemption categories will be agreed in consultation with
IDA.
In addition, adequate administrative and organizational
mechanisms for collecting user charges would be put in place.
_. 



9. Contracting services           Contracted service are underutilised and results in   APVVP will monitor cost-effectiveness and quality of existing
substantial inefficiencies.                      contracted services. Furthermore the Governing Council will
review as appropriate new proposals for contracting-out
health services especially support services.
10. Safeguarding the operations    The existing secondary hospitals face operational    Taking into account budgetary provision, GOAP and APVVP
and maintenance component of      deficiencies and function poorly due to lack of  will maintain sufficient funds in the non-plan health budget for
the health budget                 non-salary recurrent funds.                      adequate supplies of drugs and other medical supplies at
secondary hospitals, and for maintenance of equipment and
buildings.
11. Poverty alleviation           About 38% of households are below the poverty    The investments made in this project will aim to reduce
line in AP. In this group, health indicators such as   poverty: by increasing the earning potential of workers
mortality and morbidity rates, are especially    through reduced illness; by increasing the enrolment of
adverse.                                         children in school and making them better able to learn; and
by avoiding the greater expenditures needed deal with
untreated illness.
A strengthened referral mechanism will provide greater and
more timely access in case of more serious health problems. -
l                                      .                                                   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i






- 55 -
Amex3
Page 1 of 9
Public Expenditures on the Health Sector in Andhra Pradesh
Share of health sector in public expenditures
1.     The public health care system in Andhra Pradesh operates within the confines of a very
restricted budget (Table l). Total revenue expenditure on Health and Family Welfare (FW) in
1991/92 was Rs. 375 crores, representing about 5.8%  of the total state revenue budget. It rose
to Rs. 464 crores in 1993/94 (Revised Estimate) and is budgeted to increase to Rs. 504 crores
in the current fiscal year. However, health expenditures' grew more slowly than expenditures
on other social sectors, such as education and water and sanitation, and more slowly than total
revenue expenditures. As a result, the relative share of the health budget in total revenue
expenditures declined to about 5.6% in 1994/95. It share in total (revenue and capital) budget
expenditure is currently 5.1%, compared to 5.5%  in 1991/92.
2.     By all standards, public health expenditures are extremely low  in the state. Revenue
expenditures on health and FW constituted a mere 1.3% of the state Net Domestic Product in
1990/91 which is the same for India as a whole.2 Per capita annual public health expenditure
was about Rs. 51 in 1990/91 or about US$2.5 in 1994/95.
3.     The revenue budget accounts for 94 % of the total expenditures of the state government.
The bulk of the health and FVW budget also consists of revenue expenditures. There are
apparently no other expenditures on health which appear in the budgets of other departments,
although certain large public sector undertakings, mainly those owned by the central government,
provide health facilities for their employees. The figures mentioned above are, therefore, good
indicators of the claims of the health sector on public resources.
Structure of revenue receipts and the revenue deficit
4.     Table 2 shows the structure of revenue receipts of the state. Currently, about 70%  of
total revenue receipts consist of the state's own revenues (55% of own tax revenues and 15 %
of non-tax revenues). Central taxes comprised 14 % of total receipts and 15 % of receipts accrue
as grants from the Centre. These shares have been more or less constant over the last three
years.
Unles otherwise specified, public health expenditures include expenditures on FW.
' The relatively small size of the health budget can also be gauged by comparing it with the budget of other 'social senrices'. Expenditu
on bealth, as a proportion of total revenue expenditure, are lower than expenditures on the 'welfare of scheduled castes and tribes' (about 6.4%
of the revenue budget in 1991/92), which consist of various subsidies and incentives for SC/ST. the education budget consties about 18%
of revenue expenditures.



- 56 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 9
5.    Total revenue receipts increased at 9.6 % per annum between 1991/92 and 1994/95,
while revenue expenditures rose more rapidly at 11.6% per annum. Consequently, the deficit
on the revenue account has increased to Rs. 704 crores in the current fiscal year, representing
about 8.5% of revenue receipts. At the beginning of the decade, the state government
commanded a small surplus on the revenue account of about Rs. 331 crores.
Composition of the health budget by pro2ram/service
6.    A  large share of public health expenditures in Andhra Pradesh is allocated to the
provision of primary health care services, which include expenditures on the FW program and
programs for the prevention and eradication of communicable diseases. At the beginning of the
decade, the respective shares of these two major public health programs in the revenue budget
of the health and FW sector were 20% and 17%. Some primary health care is provided by
secondary and tertiary hospitals and hence expenditures on these programs understate the total
public expenditure on primary care. Nevertheless, these programs constitute the most important
components of primary health care and together accounted for 37% of the total health budget.
The share of expenditures on FW has fallen to about 14% of the health budget in the last two
years.
7.    A recent analysis of the composition of public expenditures on health during the last
decade highlights the budgetary emphasis on primary health care.3 The main features of
subsectoral allocations during the eighties were: (i) a rising share for primary services; (ii) a
declining share for hospital services; and (iii) a modestly rising share for education and
training.4 The share of primary services steadily increased from 46% in 1980/81 to a peak of
56% in 1985/86, after which it declined to about 49% in 1989/90. Hospital services exhibited
a consistent and significant reduction in their share of expenditures from about 41 % in 1980/81
to about 34% in 1989/90. However, this did not result in a reduction in real terms in resources
allocated to hospital services, since the overall health budget grew by about 69% in real terms
over the decade, or at an average rate of about 6% (in real terms) per year.
8.    This analysis of subsectoral allocations highlighted some important issues. First, the
allocation of expenditures to hospital services is relatively low in Andhra Pradesh, compared to
both other low-income countries and to other Indian states. Only 4 countries in the 29 countries
reviewed by Barnum and Kutzin (1993) spent less than 40% of the health budget on hospital
services. An earlier study by ORG (1986) covering health expenditures in different Indian states
reported an all-India average share for hospital services of about 45 % of the health budget.
'Mahapatra and Berman (1991). 'Allocation of Government Health Services Expenditures in Andhra Pradesh, India, during the Eighties.'
Harvard School of Public Health (Mimeo).
'P rimary services were defined as public health programs and primary institutions and hospital services consisted of both secondary and
tertiary hospitals.



- 57 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 9
9.    Second, allocations to hospital services in Andhra Pradesh have been adversely affected
even in years when the overall health budget has grown, whereas allocations to primary health
services were vulnerable to reductions only in years when the overall health budget was
constrained. The fluctuations in annual Plan allocations for hospital services (see para 11) also
seem to indicate that there have been positive efforts at reducing allocations to hospitals in the
state.
10.   Third, resource allocations within the hospital sector are skewed in favour of tertiary
level hospitals (see para 16). Secondary level hospital care has suffered on account of low levels
of overall public expenditures and the pattern of subsectoral allocations within the health sector
and within the hospital services sector.
Allocations of Plan expenditures for the health sector
ii.   The allocative process in government health expenditures is more clearly indicated by an
analysis of Plan expenditures. Non-Plan expenditures tend to be carried over from year to year
by default, whereas Plan expenditures are subjected to enhancements and cutbacks from year to
year.
12.   The annual Plan expenditure (revenue plus capital) for the state was about Rs. 1,489
crores in 1991/92, Rs. 2,206 in 1992/93 and Rs. 2,200 in 1993/94 (revised estimates). Plan
expenditures on health and FW consist almost entirely of revenue expenditures and it is therefore
more useful to compare plan expenditures on health with the total plan revenue expenditure.5
The plan budget for health and FW in 1991/92 and 1992/93 was Rs. 114 crores; in 1993/94,
however, it declined to Rs. 100 crores. The health sector claimed about 10% of the plan revenue
budget in 1991/92, 8. 1 % in 1992/93 and 7% in 1993/94. The social services sector, as a whole,
received about 50% of annual Plan allocations, of which about half was absorbed by water
supply and sanitation and the welfare of SC/ST.
13.   Plan funds have been a more important source of finance for the health sector than for
all government expenditures. Taking the budget as a whole, Plan funds constituted 20% of the
total (revenue and capital) budget in 1991/92 and 25% in 1992/93 and 1993/94. The share of
Plan funds in the health budget, by contrast, has generally been higher (30% in 1992/93, 27%
in 1992/93 and 21 % in 1993/94). This share exhibits considerable year to year variations which
can be attributed to the planning process itself and the greater scrutiny and inter-departmental
pulls to which claims on Plan funds are subjected. The dependence on Plan funds for all social
services was lower than that of the health sector (23%, 24%  and 21% for the three years
respectively) largely because of the relatively low share of Plan funds for the education sector.6
The greater dependence of the health sector on Plan funds (when compared to other social
I In 1991/92, plan capital expenditure on health and FW was only R3. I crore.
'Plan funds constituted between 8-10% of expenditure on education during these three years.



- 58 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 9
sectors) indicates that the sector is more vulnerable to budgetary stringencies and ad hoc
allocations.
14.   Within the health sector, Plan allocations to hospital services and especially the secondary
level hospitals are most susceptible to ad hoc changes. This is because Plan allocations in the
health sector have devolved almost entirely on the family welfare program and the various
national programs for the prevention and eradication of diseases. The former accounted for 64%
of total plan funds for the health sector in 1993/94; the latter accounted for another 17%.
Between them, these schemes have accounted for nearly 80% of sectoral Plan expenditures over
the last three years. Plan allocations for these programs have been protected because they are
funded either entirely by the Central government (Central plan schemes) or have been driven by
Central plan allocations in the case of Centrally sponsored schemes, where access to Central
Plan resources are contingent on the allocation of state resources.
15.   Since plan allocations for Central schemes are relatively protected and annual
expenditures tend to be more stable, much of the year to year variation in Plan expenditures
result in substantial variations in state plan allocations for other schemes. Plan allocations for
hospital services, particularly at the secondary level, are likely to be the most vulnerable
expenditures.
16.   This general conclusion is reinforced by a recent analysis of plan allocations during the
1980s for the health sector in Andhra Pradesh.7 Between 1980/81 and 1989/90, between 87%
and 95 % of plan expenditure for the health sector was absorbed by primary services, the balance
being devoted to hospital services. Furthermore, plan allocations to primary services has always
been positive, even in years when overall plan allocations for the sector fell. By contrast, the
growth of allocations to hospitals fluctuated from year to year. The hospital sector in the state
has therefore suffered from consistent underfunding and has had access to very few resources
for improving access and enhancing quality.
Distribution of public resources for hospitals
17.   During the last decade, the allocation of total public resources (plan and non-plan) for
the hospital sector to secondary and tertiary level hospitals, respectively, has been in the ratio
of 51:49.8 The norm recommended by the Planning Commission is a ratio of 67:33. Analysis
of plan allocations for the two levels of hospital services during the same period confirmed that
tertiary hospitals claimed a greater share of incremental resources as well. Two-thirds of total
plan resources allocated to all hospitals were absorbed by tertiary level institutions. Given the
fact that hospitals received a very small share of Plan funds, the absolute levels of plan
'Mahapala and BeTman (1991), Ibid
'Mahaptara nd Berman (1992). 'Sub-allocation of the Firancial outlay for Hospital Services in AndhA Pradesh, India during the Eighties.
Has it been appropriate:' Harvard School of Public Health (Mimeo)



- 59 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 9
expenditure on secondary level hospitals are very small.
Resources for APVVP
18.   The Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (APVVP) was established in November
1986 and 141 institutions comprising community, area and district hospitals and dispensaries
were transferred to the APVVP with effect from March 1987. The major share of secondary
level hospital services is now provided by the institutions under APVVP management. Budgetary
allocations to APVVP are therefore an important indicator of public expenditures on secondary
level hospital care.
19.   Currently, almost the entire expenditure of APVVP is financed by grants-in-aid provided
by the state government. These grants amounted to Rs. 390 million in 1991/92, Rs. 450 million
in 1992/93 and Rs. 480 million in 1993/94. The projected grant for this year is lower at Rs. 460
million. Of the total non-plan budget for the health sector of Rs. 2.6 billion in 1991/92, APVVP
received only 15%; this share fell to about 13% in 1993/94 and to less than 12% in the budget
estimates for the current year.
20.   Plan funds for APVVP have been negligible (Rs. 9 million in 1991/92 and Rs. 11 million
in subsequent years). APVVP gets less than 0.75 % of total Plan resources for the health sector.
21.   About three-quarters of APVVP expenditures is absorbed by salaries, a share which has
remained more or less constant since the beginning of the decade. Budgetary restraint has
therefore been effected by holding constant in nominal terms, expenditures on drugs supplies and
consumables. Since price inflation for these commodities has been greater than average, real
expenditure on critical inputs other than personnel has declined substantially in recent years.
Public Expenditures Issues Arising from the Project
22.   The state government is expected to meet about 10% of the total project costs. With a
total project cost of U$159 million including price and physical contingencies (Rs. 6.08 billion)
distributed over 7 years, the annual average disbursements will be about Rs. 87 million. The
state government's annual incremental contribution will need to be about Rs. 8.7 million, which
represents a 19% increase over current budgetary allocations to APVVP.9 The state
government's enhanced incremental annual allocation to APVVP necessary to cover project costs
must be clearly earmarked in the annual Plans and budgets.
23.   Expenditures under the project will be fully additional. Additionality will be monitored
for total expenditures on the health sector and for APVVP in particular relative to the base year
1994/95. However, only budget estimates are available for the current fiscal year which are Rs.
5.04 billion and Rs. 460 million for the health sector and APVVP, respectively. Assuming an
9 It reprsents an evenmore substantial increase in Plan funds for APVVP (Rs. 87 million compared to the currenm levei of Rs. 11.5 nillion).



- 60 -
Anne 3
Page 6 of 9
annual inflation rate of 8-10%, nominal expenditures should grow at least these rates.
Additionality implies that these allocations by the state government will be fully incremental to
the funds provided to APWP through IDA.
24.   Annual recurrent expenditures at the end of the project are expected to be about Rs. 300
million (at base prices). Assuming current allocation pattern between the three levels of health
care were to remain the same, at project completion budget allocation to APVVP would have
to increase by 7 percentage points to about 20 % of the total Health and FW budget of the state.
The incremental recurrent costs of the project at Rs 300 million is only about 0.3 % of the state's
total public spending and 5.6% of the health and Family Welfare spending, and should not be
a problem for the government to provide. Understanding has been reached with the AP
government that it would meet the incremental recurrent cost needs by: ensuring that allocation
of project funds for APWP would be fully additional to GOAP's fiscal budget of FY95;
increasing APWP's recurrent expenditure to fully match its increased capacity; and reallocating
incremental resources from the tertiary to the secondary health care level. The governments
calculation of recurrent costs as well as the financing proposal for the project do not take into
consideration the revenue that would be recovered at project completion through user charges.
Analysis shows that when 15-20% of beds are used for private paying care and some other
minor user fees are charged, APWP would be easily able to recover between Rs. 45 to Rs. 55
million annually at project completion. The analysis thus suggests that the project would be
financially sustainable.



- 61 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 9
Table 1: Andra Pradesh: Structure of Government Expenditures
(in Rs. crores)                       (as % of revenue expenditures)
91/92    92/93    93/94   94/95            91/92    92/93      93/94      94/95
ACC      ACC      R.E.    B.E.              ACC    ACC         R.E.       B.E.
Total Revenue Expenditure            6451      7190    8079    8963             100.00    100.00    100.56     100.01
Geal Services                         1829     2112    2545    2865              28.35     29.37     31.50      31.96
Socal Services of which:             2347      2736    2948    3475              36.38     38.05     36.49      38.77
Education                      1150      1353    1524    1843              17.83     18.82     18.86      20.56
Health & Family Welfare         375       422      464     504              5.81      5.84      5.74       5.62
(Family Welfare)           74        84       66       68             1.15      1.17      0.82       0.76
(Prevention/Eradication)         65       n.a.      83     n.a.             1.01      0.00      1.03       0.00
Water & Sanitation              186       257      217     274              2.88      3.57      2.69       3.06
Welfre of SC & ST               415       460      470     553              6.43       6.4      5.82       6.17
Othen                            82       n.a.     127     n.a.             1.27      0.00      1.57       0.00
Economical Services                  2226      2282    2561    2551              34.51     31.74     31.70      28.46
Grants-in-Aid                           49       60       70       73             0.76      0.83      0.87       0.81
Total Capital Expenditure              419      803      767      899             6.10     10.05      8.67       9.12
GRAND TOTAL                          6870      7993    8846    9862            (as & of total expenditure)
Memo Items:
Population: 66.5 million (1991)
State Net Domestic Product: 1988/89 - Rs. 19,793 crores (est. 1990/91 Rs. 25,489 cr; 1991/92 Rs. 28,349 cr.)
Table 2: Andhra Pradesh: Structure of Revenue Receipts
(in Rs. crores)                                (as % of revenue expenditures)
91/92     92/93      93/94      94/95                  91/92      92/93      93/94      94/95
ACC       ACC        R.E.       B.E.                   ACC        ACC        R.E.        B.E.
Toal Revenue Receipts      6282       7067        7792       8260                 100.00     100.00     100.00     100.00
State's Own Revenue        4455       4965        5385       5783                 70.92       70.26      69.11      70.01
Own Tax Revenue          3474       3886       4256       4487                  55.30      54.99      54.62       54.32
Non-tax Revenue           981       1079       1129       1296                  15.62      15.27      14.49       15.69
Cental taxes                877        1049       1147       1232                  13.96      14.84      14.72      14.92
Grants from Centre           950       1053       1260       1245                  15.12      14.90      16.17       15.07



- 62 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 9
Table 3: Andhra Pradesh: Plan Expenditures by Sector
(in Rs. crores)                            (as % of plan revenue expenditures)
91/92     92/93     93/94      94/95               91/92       92193      93/94       94/95
ACC       ACC       R.E.       B.E.                ACC         ACC        R.E.        B.E.
TotalPlanRevenue                  1078       1411      1449      1369               100.00      100.00      100.00      100.00
Social Services                    539       643        611       819                50.00       45.57       42.17      59.82
Education                        72        109        93       156                 6.68        7.73        6.42       11.40
Health & Family Welfare         114        114       100       109                10.58        8.08        6.90       7.96
of which:                                                                             0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
Family Welfare                   73         83        64        67                 6.77        5.88        4.42        4.89
Dissea control                   19       n.a.        24       n.a.                 1.76       0.00        1.66       0.00
Others                           22                   22                           2.04        0.00        1.52       0.00
Water supply & sanitation       149        189       178       233                13.82       13.39       12.28       17.02
Welfar of SC &ST                150        161       158       210                13.91       11.41       10.90       15.34
Total Plan Capital                 411       795        751       871                38.13       56.34       51.83       63.62
GRAND TOTAL PLAN                  1489      2206       2200      2240
Table 4: Andhra pradesh: Allocations to APVVP
(in Rs. crores)                                (as % of health budget)
91/92     92193     93/94      94/95              91/92      92/93     93/94      94/95
ACC       ACC       R.E.       B.E.               ACC        ACC       R.E.       B.E.
Non-Plan
Total Health & Family Welfare           264        308       364       395              100.00    100.00    100.00       100.00
of which:
Grants to APVVP                       39         45        48        46               14.77      14.62     13.27       11.74
ComniSssionente                         I         I         I          1               0.38       0.32      0.27        0.25
(Salaries)                         I         I         1                0.00      0.19       0.18       0.16
Hospitals & Dispensaries              38         44        47        46               14.39      14.29     13.03       11.55
(Saries)                         34         34        34                         10.93       9.47       8.73
(Othe)                           10         13        12                0.00      3.25       3.57       3.04
Hospital Equipment Repair Uni       0.08       0.07      0.05       0.05               0.03       0.02      0.01        0.01
(Saaries)                      0.04       0.04      0.04                          0.01       0.01       0.01
Lumpsum Provision                   0.57       0.67                                    0.22       0.22      0.00        0.00
Plan
TotalHealth&Family Welfare              114        114       100        109             100.00    100.00    100.00       100.00
of which:
Grants to APVVP                     0.87       1.08      1.15       1.15               0.76       0.95      1.15        1.06
Comrnissionerate                    0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01                0.01       0.01      0.01        0.01
(Saaries)           0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01                0.01      0.01       0.01        0.01
Hospitals & Dispensaries            0.86       1.07      1.14       1.14               0.75       0.94      1.14        1.05
(Salries)           0.31       0.76      0.80      0.80                0.27      0.67       0.80        0.73
Other                               0.55       0.31      0.34      0.34                0.48       0.27      0.34        0.31



- 63 -
Anlm
Page 9 of 9
Table 5: Structure of APVVP Expenditures (Hospitals & Dispensaries)
(in Rs. lakhs)                                    (in %)
91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95               91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95
ACC      ACC       R.E.     B.E.               ACC      ACC       R.E.     BE.
APWP Hospitals & Dispensaries     3872      4391     4744     4562                 100      100       100      100
of which:
Pay & Allowances               2580      2987      n.a.,    n.a.              66.63    68.03       n.a.     n.a.
Non-salary expenses             1292     1404      t178     1059              33.37    31.97    24.83    23.21
Travel                         11.49     11.53    12.50      n.a.              0.30      0.26     0.26      0.00
Wages                           5.22      3.87     5.50      n.a.              0.13      0.09     0.12      0.00
Administration                 68.53    42.04    49.10    68.00                1.77      0.96     1.03      1.49
Water and Electricity          83.91    103.63    78.00    100.00              2.17      2.36     1.64      2.19
Rents, Rates & Taxes            3.36     5.60      4.50     3.50               0.09      0.13     0.09      0.08
Purniture                       5.36    34.48    48.00                         0.14      0.79     1.01      0.00
Machinery& Equipment          117.26    116.12    53.00     19.00              3.03      2.64     1.12      0.42
Hospital Consumables          640.98   835.04   671.50   681.70               16.55     19.02    14.15    14.94
Drugs                        541.66   708.50   580.00   580.00               13.99    16.14     12.23    12.71
Other Consumables             69.22    105.60    80.50    84.70               1.79     2.40      1.70     1.86
Linen                         30.10    20.94     11.00    17.00               0.78     0.48      0.23     0.37
Cleaning materials              8.89     9.74      8.00     9.50               0.23      0.22     0.17      0.21
Diet                           99.22    91.28    86.10    100.00               2.56      2.08     1.81      2.19
Maintenance                     8.42     18.73    15.99    77.00               0.22      0.43     0.34      1.69
Ambulances                     8.42    18.73    15.99    23.40                0.22     0.43      0.34     0.51
Buildings                                                 45.60               0.00     0.00      0.00      1.00
Machinery & Equipment                                      8.00               0.00     0.00      0.00     0.18
Minor works (buildings)       238.94    130.45   145.65      n.a.              6.17      2.97     3.07      0.00
Memo Items:
Number of APWP Beds            9586      9586     9586      9586
Average Annual Expenditure               (in Rupees)
Hospital Consumables            6687     8711     7005      7111
Drugs                         5651      7391     6050      6050
Other Consumables*             722      1102      840       884
Linen                          314       218      115       177
Cleaning materials                93      102       83        99
Diet                            1035      952       898     1043
Other consumables include needles, syringes, lab materials, X-rays, gauze, surgical cotton, etc.






- 64 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
Cost Recoverl
1.        The Government of Andhra Pradesh has proposed that some charges be levied on
users of APVVP facilities. This revenue could be used to finance part of the anticipated
incremental recurrent expenditures at the end of the project.
2.         Cost recovery in the project has been conceived of as a means of providing a modest
supplement to, and not as a substitute for, the APVVP operating budget. This will help to
maintain the higher level of quality achieved by the project. The responsibility for meeting the
recurrent cost obligations of the project will continue to be met by the government. A substantial
cost-recovery ratio is neither feasible nor desirable given the large proportion of poor, of women
and tribals among the clientele served by APVVP. Beneficiary assessment studies show that the
poor are disproportionately represented among the users of public hospitals in Andhra Pradesh.
High levels of user charges could discourage use of APVVP facilities by these sections and deny
access to critical hospital services.
3.         The guiding principles of user charges would be: (a) to protect the poorest and most
vulnerable sections of society; (b) to target recovery on non-salary recurrent costs; (c) to charge
for amenities such as private beds; charge for low cost-effectiveness procedures in order to
generate and free public resources for higher cost-effectiveness intentions; and (c) to ensure
administrative simplicity. User charges will be instituted in a phased manner after improvements
in the quality of basic services (such as staffing and technical norms) and infrastructure. In the
absence of quality improvements, the levying of a fee can lead to reduced demand for hospital
services.
4.         Three main types of user charges are proposed: paying wards, outpatient charges
and charges for services provided to the private sector (special clinics for paying outpatients and
diagnostic services). This Annex examines the potential revenue that can be generated for
APVVP by a few simple user charges under alternative assumptions. This is followed by a
discussion of possible implementation mechanisms.
Projected Revenue from Paving Wards
5.         Agreement has been reached to allocate 20 % of all beds at district and area hospitals
as paying wards. A total of 14,000 beds are expected to be in place at the end of the project,
of which 10,500 will be at district and area hospitals, 2,100 beds would be allocated as paying
beds, representing 15 % of the total bed stock at all hospitals. However, this represents over 45 %
of the incremental beds that are expected to be added by the project, and nearly 60% of the
incremental beds at district and area hospitals.



- 65 -
AnnexA
Page 2 of 7
6.        Three types of paying beds will be offered at district and area hospitals. Category
A comprises single rooms with attached toilet, Category B shared rooms with or without
attached toilet and Category C comprises cubicles in general wards which provide some privacy
to patients. Projected revenues calculated below are based on the assumption that 35 % of paying
beds are classified as Category A, 45 % as Category B and 20% as Category C. Patients opting
for paying wards would have to pay bed charges; those opting for A and B categories would also
have to pay for treatment costs for surgery and diagnostics.
7.        Revenue collections from bed charges in paying wards under alternative assumptions
of bed occupancy rates are presented in Table 1. The annual collection assuming 70% occupancy
is expected to be about Rs 17.2 million; assuming 80% occupancy, it is expected to be about
Rs. 19.6 million.
Table 1: Annual Collections from Paving Beds
Bed Charge       Number   70% occupancy  80% occupancy
(Rupees/day)     of beds   (Rs. mill.)     (Rs. mill.)
Category A                50            735          9.39            10.73
Category B                30            945          7.24            8.28
Category C                 5            420          0.54            0.61
Total Revenue                          2,100        17.17            19.62
8.        Patient opting for paying beds in Categories A and B will also be charged for major
and minor surgeries. A differential pricing policy for surgical charges which links charges to the
type of amenity provided (e.g. higher charges for Category A beds) can lead to excess demand
for Category B beds and underutilization of Category A beds, unless there is a substantial
difference in quality between the two types of wards. Quality differences of this order are not
being planned. It is therefore recommended that uniform surgery charges are levied for both
categories of beds.
9.        Table 2 presents projected revenues generated by surgery charges for patients in
paying wards. The total revenue generated by surgery charges, under the above assumptions,
is expected to be Rs. 11.8 million for 70% occupancy and Rs 13.4 million for 80% occupancy.
Surgery charges have been assumed to be Rs. 700 for major surgeries and Rs. 200 for minor
surgeries (data provided by APVVP) and are inclusive of expenditure on suturing material,
anaesthetic drugs and OT charges and routine pathological tests. Drugs, disposables, X-rays and
ultrasonography tests are not included in this package offer and are expected to be charged
separately.
-_----- 



- 66 -
Annex4
Page 3 of 7
10.          The rationale for the proposed charges are related to prices being currently charged
in other tertiary government hospitals located in Hyderabad. However, the ability to pay at
APVVP hospitals, which will cater to large members of poor is not evident. If the paying
capacity of the population at the district and sub-district level is lower, lower prices may need
to be charged. Prices levied in private hospitals in district and taluk headquarters can provide
a benchmark figure, provided the quality of care in APVVP private wards in comparable to that
in private hospitals.
Table 2: Projected Revenues from Surgical Procedures
(Paying Ward Patients only)
Occupancy      InpatLients      Major        Revenue      Minor surgeries   Revenue
surgeries        (Rs.m)                      (Rs.m)
Category A           70%           18,780         4,695          3.29            9,390         1.90
80%           21,460         5,365          3.76           10,730          2.1
Category B           70%           24,145          6,035         4.22           12,070         2.41
80%           27,590         6,897          4.83           13,795         2.76
Total                70%           42,925         10,730         7.51           21,460         4.31
80%           49,050         12,262         8.59           24,525         4.86
Notes:
1. The number of inpatients has been calculated using a 70% or 80% bed occupancy rate to get total number of bed-days in a
year and dividing by an expected average length of stay of 10 days (which is the current average).
2. The number of major and minor surgeries has been calculated by assuming that 25 % and 50 % respectively of inpatienus will
undergo each type of surgery. Data provided by APVVP for recent years show that currently about 15 % and 30% of inpatients
undergo major and minor surgeries respectively. It can be safely assumed that the proportion of such patients will be higher in
paying wards.
11.          Additional revenue will be generated by charging for X-rays, ultra-sonography, and
consumables. Since data are not available on the per patient use of these services and
consumables, a rough estimate of prospective revenues can be made by assuming a flat rate of
Rs. 200 per inpatient. A sum of Rs. 8.59 million for 70% occupancy and Rs 9.81 million for
80% occupancy can be generated in this manner.



- 67 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
12.       Table 3 summarizes the recoveries from paying bed patients.
Table 3: Revenue Collection from Paving Beds
(Rs million)
Bed Charges    Surgical          Drugs and            Total
procedures       consumables
80%                   19.6             13.4                9.8             42.8
occupancy
70%                   17.2             11.8                8.6             34.5
occupancy                                        _
13.       These preliminary calculations, indicate that between Rs 35 - Rs. 43 million can be
recovered through paying room charges. The gross revenue collections must be discounted for
additional costs that would be incurred to provide higher quality service in these wards (such as
higher nurse to bed ratio, additional attendants and extra amenities such as electricity and water).
Assuming that extra costs for providing these services are 20% of gross collections, net revenues
generated will be between Rs 2.8 million and Rs. 3.4 million.
Distribution of pavinz bed capacity
14.       Although it has been assumed that 20% of total bed capacity in area and district
hospitals will be designated as paying beds, a uniform proportion cannot be used across
rural/urban areas and across districts. Since the paying capacity of the catchment areas of
different hospitals varies widely due to differences in the incidence of poverty and in per capita
income, a uniform distribution may result in underutilization of bed capacity in poorer regions.
More detailed data on socio-economic characteristics would be required to arrive at an optimal
distribution of paying bed capacity.
15.       The extent of private bed capacity in the different districts and taluks may provide
a good indicator of paying capacity. The distribution of public/private beds is markedly different
in various districts of Andhra Pradesh, ranging between a 80:20 ratio to a 20:80 ratio. A notable
feature of the distribution is that the more backward districts (for example, in drought prone
Rayalaseema region and districts with a high proportion of tribals), the private sector beds is
relatively low indicating that paying capacity is low. In such districts, the proportion of paying
wards in APVVP hospitals should be low, since demand may be too low to generate additional
revenues which are sufficient to cover the extra cost of providing the service.
16.       A critical assumption in the above exercise is that relatively high bed occupancy
rates can be achieved. Sample data from a few district and area hospitals indicate that current



- 6s -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
occupancy rates in paying wards are as low as 25-35 %, because of lack of water in the toilets
and lack of nursing care. Paying ward patients have to share the nurse and other attendants with
the general ward and hence tend to get less attention. Indifference towards the general conditions
in the hospital and towards providing the extra care and amenities demanded by paying inpatients
has resulted in very low occupancy rates and recoveries.
17.       In order to achieve high utilization rates in the paying wards, APVVP would have
to improve the quality of services at secondary hospitals. Paying beds would create some quality
competition between the public and private sectors in those limited areas where there is overlap
of services and therefore contribute to improving the quality of services provided and reduce
inefficiencies at health facilities. Such opportunities, however, would be limited since private
facilities are not available everywhere, and some critical services such as the treatment of
communicable diseases which affect the poor are not provided by private facilities.
18.       Another way of judging paying capacity is to compare the expenditure on one illness
episode, based on the charges assumed above, and with the per capita income. Assuming an
average length of stay of 10 days, the expected expenditure for different categories of patients
is Rs. 1,400 for a patient undergoing a major surgery using a Category A bed and Rs. 50 for
a patient using a Category C bed (Table 5). These compare with an estimated per capita GDP
of Rs. 5,950 in 1994/95. Direct expenditure on hospitalization (excluding drug charges) is about
25 % and 8 % of per capita GDP for the two types of inpatients respectively. For a family of five
with a household income which is 350% of per capita GDP, one case of hospitalization
represents about 6.7% of household income for a Category A patient and 02. % for a Category
C patient. The level of charges indicated here seem to place only a modest burden on the
average household, although the substantial other direct and indirect expenditures, such as
foregone earnings, which tend to be higher for poorer patients, should be taken into account
when determining the ability to pay.
Table 5: Per Patient Direct Expenditure on Hospitalization
(in Rupees)
Major Surgery       Minor Surgery          General
Category A                 1,400                900                  700
Category B                 1,200                700                  500
Category C                   50                  50                  50
Outpatient charges
19.       The number of new outpatients is currently about 10 million. Improvements in
quality which are envisaged in the project and the normal growth in population would probably
result in an annual turnover of about 12.5 million new outpatients after 3 years of project
implementation.



- 69 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
20.        One of the important objectives of the project is to enhance access to hospital
services of those from low income groups. Outpatient charges, however modest, can negatively
influence women's use of hospital services, for instance, in poor households. Poor households
often bear a disproportionate share of the total costs in the form of indirect costs (especially
foregone earnings, since very few of them enjoy paid medical leave). Any additional user
charges would add to the total cost burden of the poor. There is therefore a strong equity
argument for exempting the poorest households from all direct charges. Practical considerations,
however, prevent the use of income criteria to determine exemption categories among
outpatients. Employers' salary certificates can be used only for a minority of patients working
in the organized sector in urban areas. Currently, GOAP issues two types of ration cards to
distinguish households under the poverty line from those above the poverty line. A number of
malpractices have been noted in the administering of the ration card system, which limit their
use by hospital managements to determine the income status of patients. This can result in
ineligible households benefitting from free hospital services.
21.       It is proposed that exemption categories will need to be carefully evaluated. An
alternative is to exclude women with high risk pregnancies and children under the age of 5.
However, this alternative has its own problem. The proposal is currently to have voluntary
payment for out patient services such as through the sale of APVVP seals at the time of
outpatient registration.
22.        Data on the number of outpatients by gender, age and type of case are not available.
However, an estimate of the gross revenues can be made under different assumptions. Assuming
an outpatient charge of Rs. 2 and that 30% of outpatients fall in the non-exempted categories,
the gross revenue collection is Rs. 7.5 million. On the other hand, if only 50% of the outpatients
are exempted, Rs. 12.5 million can be collected annually. In view of administrative convenience,
a uniform low rate for each unexempted outpatient is preferable to levying different charges for
different services and different types of users.
Additional services
23.        APVVP proposes to set up special outpatient clinics and offer diagnostic services
for the private sector. The market for the latter is estimated to be large. The decision to offer
these services would have to follow a more precise estimate of demand. Preliminary estimates
indicate that about as much as Rs. 10 million can be raised through the sale of these services.



- 70 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Administrative issues
24.        Current procedures for collecting revenue from paying beds are rather informal and
would prove unsatisfactory when the number of paying beds is expanded. Institution of new
collection methods requiring formalizing procedures, appointment of additional staff and training
of staff in new procedures is proposed under the project. Monitoring the flow of collected funds
and the enforcement of exemption rules will also be required. It has been proposed that
approximately one-third of the revenues will beq retained at the point of collection to provide
incentives to hospital managers. Centralizing the remaining two-thirds of revenue collections at
the APVVP head office is justified in view of APVVP's mandate to ensure equitable access and
quality of hospital services across different geographic regions.
Summar
25.        Annual non-salary recurrent expenditures at the end of the project are expected to
be Rs. 262 million (comprising Rs. 156 million for incremental expenditures arising from the
project and Rs. 106 million for the existing level of non-salary expenditures). The few simple
measures oudlined above can raise revenues to the order to Rs. 45-55 million, representing about
20% of the annual non-salary recurrent costs at the end of the project. The assumptions used in
the above calculations are fairly cautious. Different pricing rules, for instance a larger
differential between Category a and Category B bed charges, can lead to the generation of
additional revenues and also create possibilities for a greater degree of cross-subsidization. An
important issue in setting bed charges is that net revenue should be substantially positive.
Experience from many countries shows that the net revenue from private wards is often negative
because the additional costs of providing the service have not been taken into account. On the
other hand, if extra costs are not incurred in raising the quality of the care provided, the private
wards may be underutilized. If the net revenue from paying wards is negative, high income
patients will actually be subsidized, an unintended equity effect which should be avoided.
26.        The simple simulations described in this annex indicate the possible minimum levels
of revenue collection. A detailed analysis would involve the effects of prices on efficiency,
equity and revenue generation and their effects on the optimal level of user charges.






- 71 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 13
Organization and Management of APVVP
Current Administrative Structure of APVVP
1.    The project will be implemented within the existing administrative structure. The Andhra
Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (APVVP) will play a central role in implementing the project.
It will interact closely and coordinate its health care delivery with the three major Directorates
reporting to the Principal Secretary Medical, Health and Family Welfare Department: Medical
Education, Health Services and Family Welfare Program. In addition, APVVP will also
coordinate with the five smaller Directorates that look after the AIDS Program, Preventive
Medicine, Employees State Insurance, Indian System of Medicine and Drug Control.
2.    APVVP was established through a Legislative Act in 1986. the result of the Andhra
Pradesh Governments' considerable commitment to improving its health system, particularly
its secondary hospitals. The APVVP is a Commissionerate set up specifically to improve the
functioning of secondary level hospitals. APVVP's objectives are to provide access to adequate
patient care in rural areas and support to the primary health care network, reduce pressures on
the overstretched tertiary hospitals in the cities and mobilize resources from the market as a
supplement to the state budget to improve, upgrade and maintain health care institutions.
3.    APVVP is managed by its Governing Council consisting of 5 members of the medical
profession and Legislative Assembly nominated by the Government of AP, and 6 ex-officio
members that include the Secretaries of Health and Finance Departments, APVVP Secretary,
Commissioner Institutional Finance, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Health Sciences and
the Director of Health. The Governing Council has powers to make regulations, borrow money
and to levy fee for services as well as management of the Commissionerate. The Government
has powers to issue directions to the Commissionerate in matters of inspection and control, to
make rules and undertake audit of APVVP accounts. The Commissioner, who is the Chairman
of the Governing Council and is the Chief Executive of APVVP, is appointed by the
Government from among the members of the medical profession who have administrative
experience. APVVP is a government agency reporting to the Government through the Secretary,
Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare. While APVVP functions in effect like a
Directorate within the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare, the use of a
corporate vehicle provides significant potential for improved efficiency in contracting,
disbursement and management matters as well as in providing non-govemmental participation
in the health sector. The flexible organizational structure of APVVP has not been adequately
utilized in the past. The proposed project would make it possible to fully use the organizational
flexibility assigned to APVVP through investments in first referral facilities.
4.    The following section is an exposition of the management and organization issues faced
by APVVP, both in structure and in function (see chart for APVVP's organization and
management functions and responsibilities). In each case, the section 'Action Taken' refers to



- 72 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 13
actions taken during the preparation of the project. The 'Action Required' section refers to issues
that are being addressed by the project.
Greater freedom of action for APVVP
Issues
5.    Although the Act setting up APVVP was passed in 1986, not all the implications of the
Act have yet been implemented. The two most significant areas in which the freedom envisaged
in the Act need to be implemented are:
(a)   Staff remain government employees on deputation from  the Department of
Health, Medical and Family Welfare, and are subject to all government
regulations and restrictions. Examples of the latter include reliance on the state's
recruitment and promotion machinery; restrictions on employing staff from
outside the state, and for some cadres, outside the zone; and, with some
exceptions, adherence to state wide salaries and benefits. The consequences of
these restrictions are explained in Annex 7 on 'Workforce' issues.
(b)   Despite reference in the Act that APVVP would be permitted to charge fees for
services provided, it is not allowed to do so without Government clearance.
Charges are being levied for long established services such as medical
certification, or for new services, where there is no political sensitivity, such as
ultrasound testing (50R). In this respect APVVP is in a similar situation to that
of the independent tertiary hospitals such as Osmania, which also need
government approval for fee increases.
(c)   Reasons for the restrictions on workforce matters include concerns about setting
precedents for health cadres employed in other government health agencies, and
the desirability of retaining sufficient flexibility that staff are able to transfer
readily between agencies, without compromising their seniority or pension rights.
6.    To meet these objections APVVP has been revising the various sets of regulations which
govern employment matters, in order that the government may approve them and delegate
responsibility for implementing them. This approval requires referral to various Departments
such as Finance, and to the Special Chief Secretary of Health, Medical and Family Welfare,
and to the Chief Secretary. The 'General Services Regulations' have already been revised and
approved, and have been used as a model for revising those in force within the Directorates of
Health Services and Medical Education.



- 73 -
Annex S
Page 3 of 13
7.    Specific cadre regulations, which define categories and grades of staff, are being prepared
for approval. It is anticipated that approval covering all staff matters will be delegated to the
APVVP shortly.
8.    The advantages of implementing the Act's provisions for workforce matters can be seen?
in the marked improvements regarding the supply of drugs and consumables since APVVP was
given greater freedom over purchasing, and in the progress they have been able to make in
developing the project proposals by having freedom to contract out work to consultants.
Actions Taken and/or Understandings Reached
9.    Understanding has been reached with GOAP that APVVP will have access to all deposits
of money allocated as part of the project, including unspent funds rolled over into new financial
years.
10.   APVVP has agreed to engage key additional HQ personnel to be recruited under the
project by June 30, 1995.
11.   Successful implementation of the project will depend on the removal of restrictions on
workforce issues. APVVP will be given authority to recruit staff. This would include authority:
-     to advertise, appoint, promote, and transfer staff internally;
-     to post staff as needed in tribal areas;
-     to introduce appropriate incentives; and
-     to relax standards where necessary to make use of temporary contracts and
deputations as needed to maintain services when appropriately qualified staff are
unavailable.
12.   As discussed in more detail in the Letter of Health Sector Policy, APVVP is being
encouraged to generate income in ways permitted in the 1986 Act.
Clearer 2oals. objectives and procedures
Issues
13.   Clarity about the clinical and managerial goals and objectives of hospitals, services, and
constituent managers and departments, should be emphasized throughout the system. The
Workshop held in November 1993 clearly delineated the clinical components to be carried out
at each level of the system, and the referral mechanisms have now been refined. There is an



- 74 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 13
attitude amongst some district level officers that they are deliverers of clinical care, discrete
from the other primary health care activities going on around them. Many do not see themselves
playing a role in supporting PHC and national/vertical programs.
14.   Job descriptions and attitudes to work tend to be process oriented, rather than focused
on achieving defined objectives. The assumption is that appointees will naturally understand what
is required of them. In practise, district co-ordinators complained that they suddenly found
themselves in administrative positions, with little or no idea as to how they should carry out their
roles.
15.   The current system is highly centralized, with little delegation of authority. Even the
appointment of a Class IV worker (i.e. a low level worker earning Rs. 1875 a month) requires
the presence of a Joint Commissioner, even though an objective testing procedure has been
developed. Under this arrangement, either a Joint Commissioner must make an expensive
journey to confirm the appointment, or the hospital is bereft of a cleaner until a Joint
Commissioner visits. A number of solutions could be implemented e.g. a temporary appointment
for later ratification; delegation of responsibility for such junior posts to the RMO; or
confirmation via mail, fax or phone.
Action Taken and/or Understandings Reached
16.   Missions and goals are being prepared for all hospitals, following a common style, but
allowing for local conditions e.g. particular responsibilities for cyclone situations. Within
hospitals there is also a similar need to define services more clearly. Clearly delineated
objectives will ensure that staff appreciate their wider health role.
17.   Regulations and procedures are being reviewed. The manuscript version of a new SOP
manual is now being checked within APVVP with a view to its early production and distribution.
It was also agreed that the Joint Commissioners of APVVP would undertake production of core
job descriptions based on government regulations, and APVVP policies, which could be adapted
by local managers.
18.   Delegation of responsibility throughout the system, especially to district level is desirable.
The revised procedural manual will endeavor to iron out the sorts of problems described above,
and there appears to be a willingness at all levels to begin working this way. In particular,
APVVP has agreed to pay attention to delegating budgets to district level, and from district to
RMO level, in a staged manner through the life of the project.
19.   In addition to clearer objectives and procedures, in order to support increased delegation,
there will be training to ensure all managers are capable of performing the role required of them
(see 'Management Training'), and strengthened supervisory capacity.



- 75 -
Annex S
Page 5 of 13
20.   As and when APVVP is permitted to raise significant revenue through income generation
and patient charges, a system of business planning will be introduced. For instance, based on
local and historical data, the next year's activity level will be estimated, both in terms of clinical
activity (number of patients seen etc.) and charges to be made, so that a realistic budget can be
agreed. This will focus activity, and allow for closer supervision. The notion of units being able
to retain a portion of the income generated has been included in order to maintain motivation.
This will not be practicable until the hospital's quality has been raised.
Improved Supervision
Issues
21.   Effective supervision has been lacking for a variety of reasons. As well as making it
clearer what people are supposed to do, and training them in supervisory techniques, there is a
need for better communications links between units, clearer lines of responsibility, more capacity
in the system for monitoring and more transparency of decision-making and action.
Action Taken and/or Understandings Reached
22.   Clearer links between units is being achieved by ensuring telephone, fax and radio
linkages to the maximum extent allowed by the Indian phone system, and by some increase in
the availability of transport. NICNET is being used for sending information to HQ from district
level.
23.   Extra capacity is being addressed by introducing District Co-ordinator offices with
additional staff (378 extra posts), and physically separating the District Co-ordinator activities
from the person's clinical role as head of the District Hospital. The APVVP HQ is also to have
additional staff and a restructuring of functions. Clearly delegated responsibilities will also
generate more time to attend to monitoring and supervision.
24.   Transparency will be encouraged through several mechanisms. The roles and functioning
of the Hospital Development - cum - Advisory Committees are being reconsidered to improve
their role in reviewing performance and links with the community. The new District Referral
Committees and quality strategy will automatically consider linkages and weak spots.
25.   More attention will be paid to ensuring that users understand what they can expect, or
not expect, by IEC activities, posting information in Out Patient Areas, advising Panchayat and
NGO leaders etc. This will be a local responsibility, with activities monitored by the centre.
26.   Adequate fuel, oil and lubrication allowances will be made available.



- 76 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 13
Contracting Out Services
Issues
27.   It is recognised within APVVP that it is often more efficient and/or effective to use
private contractor services, instead of direct labor. Several years ago, the state decided to
contract out all hospital kitchen services. However, there is political sensitivity about
'privatizing' health, and also some concerns about quality. Within the state there is variability
in the availability of private services. In view of the difficulties with employing government
staff, such as slow recruitment and poor attendance, and the desirability for managers to focus
on performance rather than employer matters, further progress in this area is recommended.
28.   The possibility of using private sector suppliers of health, with APVVP playing a
'purchaser' role instead of a 'provider' role, is unlikely to be politically acceptable. In the past
the state has employed private doctors as part-time consultants, but this was stopped on the basis
that it favored the doctor's reputation more than it improved the government sector's clinical
services.
Action Taken and/or Understandings Reached
29.   APVVP would be given responsibility to monitor the cost-effectiveness and quality of
existing contracted services. The Governing Council of APVVP would therefore review and
propose implementation of private contractual services, especially supporting services in
accordance with an agreed plan. District Co-ordinators will keep APVVP management advised
about local problems, the availability of local private services and any desire to extend
contracting in their units.
Management Training
Issues
30.   This project is designed to improve the quality of health services delivered by APVVP,
and to this end there is to be a major increase in the facilities, equipment and consumables
available. In addition, there will be a major increase in the number of new staff appointed. At
the same time, all systems and procedures are undergoing review and a new medical records
system is to be introduced. A quality improvement strategy is being implemented, new
responsibilities are being allocated, and it is hoped that decision making will be decentralized
down to the appropriate management level. This would require a major training program in any
system, and in one where basic training even for professional cadres has been of limited quality,
and where inservice training has been negligible up until now, this is a major challenge.



- 77 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 13
31.   With many hospitals being renovated, extended or built over such a large area, and with
no in-house training capacity, careful consideration is required about what training to offer; how
it is best delivered so as not to disrupt operational services; where it is best provided and by
whom; how it should be scheduled; and how it should be evaluated, when and by whom. Each
cadre and level needs to be considered separately, and priorities identified.
32.   There is an inevitable overlap between clinical, technical and management training, and
care will be needed to ensure that the programs developed are compatible. Experience at the
SIHFW suggested that where it was attempted to teach management alongside clinical material,
the latter received much more attention. It was felt that it would be better to develop discrete
management modules for doctors.
33.   Despite discussing the possible advantages of developing a cadre of professional health
managers to support medical officers, there has been widespread consensus that training for such
a cadre is not yet appropriate.
Action Taken and/or Understandings Reached
34.   A committee was established to follow-up specific issues. The committee is chaired by
the Joint Commissioner (Zonal), and includes a tertiary care clinician with a PG Diploma in
Healthcare Administration, a medical educator from the Institute of Health and Family Welfare,
and two District Co-ordinators.
35.   The committee has reviewed the costs for management training given in the project
proposal. Items for which costs have been estimated include the cost of initial TNA if outside
help is required; buying or hiring equipment for district hospital post graduate training centers;
transport costs for attendees (TA/DA, or travel allowance and day allocation); renting
accommodation if institutions running courses do not use their own; contracting out training (see
below); preparing and printing training material; consumables such as OHP slides and stationery;
teaching aides; books and journals; and possible visits to other countries, or fellowships and
scholarships for selected personnel to study health care management and/or its teaching
elsewhere. People so trained would be additional resources to assist with teaching.
36.   The committee has also carried out a questionnaire based assessment of management
training needs. On this basis, they have planned to train, at the district level, the top 5 staff (115
people) in each district in multi-disciplinary courses during Year 1. This will be done in 4-5
blocks with staff from different districts so as not to denude districts at any one time. Thereafter,
similar courses will be held once a year in order to cope with promotions etc. Priority will be
given to post-holders, not deputies or people close to retirement. Below this level, APVVP plans
to use the district staff, who have been trained as described, to teach the hospital level staff at
district centers.



- 78
Annex 5
Page 8 of 13
37.   The courses will be contracted out, probably inviting ASCI, the state's Institute of
Administration, and NIMS Departmant of Health Administration to bid for the job. All these
institutions are able to sub-contract specialist faculty. It has been costed approximately, and
choice of center will be on the basis of cost, capacity to meet the targets and the learning
approach.
38.   The committee has included the following suggestions in the project proposal. (i) People
at all levels will have a clearer idea of their role and how it impinges on others. For technical
staff, pharmacists etc., this should be included in their technical training. (ii) Staff will work
together in teams. Some of the training of, for example, the RMO, Head Nurse, and Pharmacist,
will be given to them in teams. Similarly, to improve understanding and co-operation between
District Health & Medical Officers and District Co-ordinators, they will be given joint training.
(iii) A third area addressed is the familiarization with APVVP and government rules and
procedures. especially regarding personnel and financial matters. (iv) Specific aims of the
project, such as quality improvement, communications with tribal groups, medical records etc.
have also been covered.(v) General managerial topics designed to improve performance e.g.
communications, problem solving, supervision and so on are also being considered.
39.   The committee has analyzed numbers, reviewed course content elsewhere in order to
develop appropriate curricula, identified and screened possible contractor institutions etc. It is
in a position to let contracts and develop an assessment methodology so that training can start
by the end of 1994. There is a clear agreement that curricula and delivery system should
emphasize practical understanding and skills enhancement. Hence they should be participative
and experiential rather than didactic.
40.   It was decided that generally district level staff should receive training organized
centrally, and that staff from community and area levels should be trained at the district levels.
Strengthening Management
41.   A key component of the project is institutional strengthening of APVVP. One aspect of
this will be accomplished by the increased management training already discussed in the previous
section. The second aspect will consist of both enhancing staffing and providing key services to
facilitate project activities.
42.   The new secretary is clearly a major contribution to the system, and measures are being
taken to encourage delegation of authority. The manual of procedures has been published, and
will provide the basis for a better understanding of what is expected of managers at all levels.
43.   The proposal is to increase staff strength at the Head office from 103 to 143 i.e. an
addition of 40 posts including 3 additional posts at the equipment storage facility at King Koti



- 79 -
Annex 5
Page 9 of 13
Hospital in Hyderabad. This will provide the required staffing to meet the increased workload
and reorient the structure of APVVP to meet its new challenges.
44.   Specific areas targeted and posts proposed are:
45.   Training and Referral Unit. One new post of Joint Commissioner, Training, Referral,
M&E and IEC has been created. Under this Joint Commissioner, two new posts of Deputy
Commissioner have been added. The first will be in charge of Nursing, Training and Referral.
Training will consist of both management and clinical training (see Annex 11). In addition,
referral and support for PHC will be provided by co-ordinating with the Directorate of Health
under the District Referral Committee. The Deputy Commissioner assigned to this task will be
assisted by a Junior Assistant. A second Deputy Commissioner will deal with Monitoring and
Evaluation and IEC (Information, Education and Communication, with special emphasis on tribal
areas). The Deputy Commissioner will be assisted by two Senior Assistant Programmers. A
Deputy Statistical Officer and Statistician who are already employed by APVVP will be re-
assigned to this unit.
46.   Finance and Audit Unit. Due to the increased demands on expenditure controls and
auditing requirements, this unit will also be expanded. On the Auditing side, a new Deputy
Audit Officer, 2 additional Assistant Audit Officers, 2 Section Officers and 2 Senior Accountants
will be appointed. On the Finance side, an additional Finance Officer, 2 Section Officers, 2
Senior Assistants and 2 Junior Assistants will be appointed to meet the increased workload.
47.   In addition, the Office of the Joint Commissioner (General) will also be strengthened by
adding a Biomedical Engineer to help with equipment procurement and 2 draftsmen to help with
civil works. The Equipment Maintenance and Training component under this Commissioner will
also be strengthened as described in Annex 10 (Equipment Maintenance and Training in APVVP
Hospitals).
48.   Finally, the Office of the Joint Commissioner (Service Delivery) will be strengthened by
the addition of a new Section Officer for general procurement, 2 Senior Assistants, and 1
Pharmacist for general procurement of drugs and medical supplies.
49.   The attached chart shows the existing and proposed additional staff of APVVP and its
organizational structure.
Medical Records and Management Information Systems
Issues
50.   The strengthening of MIS and HMIS is intended to facilitate systems improvement, wider
access and improved data collection and utilization for planning, policy making, problem solving



- 80 -
Annex 5
Page 10 of 13
and monitoring. Specifically, the objectives of the MIS and HMIS in the project are to: assist
improvement of the institutional framework for policy development by improving the information
available for sectoral review and policy development; strengthen APVVP institutions and their
implementation capacity facilitating rational planning and resource allocation, and more focussed
problem solving at all levels; and upgrade clinical effectiveness and quality of services at all
hospitals by better supervision, patient management and resource utilization.
Current Situation
51.   Up-to-date, accurate information is required at all levels of the health care system, from
clinical decisions in hospitals upto policy making in the secretariat. Planning and resource
allocation, research and problem solving, supervision, monitoring and evaluation all require
underpinning with an adequate information system.
52.   In AP, at the hospital level, information collection in departments is fairly rudimentary,
consisting of ledgers recording basic registration details such as patient name, sex, village etc.
Some activity records (e.g. operations carried out) are available; basic accounts are kept; and
ledgers and bin cards for stock control are available. Management itself is fairly rudimentary
at this level, being basically day-to-day administration and response to problems as they arise
by the senior doctor.
53.   There are no medical records for out-patients, and for in-patients records are variable and
sometimes difficult to retrieve. This situation is the result of various factors, including lack of
stationery, lack of diagnostic services so there are few results to record, lack of incentive and
lack of training.
54.   The District Co-ordinator (the senior hospital doctor at the district hospital who is overall
responsible for the management of the hospitals in the district) collects information for reporting
to APVVP HQ. Many of the statistics collected are those developed under IPP II and IV, or for
reporting to the Health Intelligence Bureau of the national MoH on morbidity, mortality and
communicable diseases, in order to generate national statistics and reports. Until recently the
NICNET system was not being used by the APVVP districts to report these statistics, and there
is no in-house computerization at this level. It has now been agreed to use NICNET.
55.   At APVVP level, there is a computerized information system which is able to generate
information about a number of fields, by zone, district and hospital. Compliance with existing
report formats was implemented early, and a computerized system was developed to facilitate
generation of hospital activity indicators. For example, it is possible to show how the system can
compare hospitals and districts by average length of stay; bed occupancy; turnover intervals;
cumulative IP days; ratio of OP:IP days; as well as the basic information on numbers of beds,
EPs, OPs, deaths and discharges.



- 81 -
Annex 5
Page 11 of 13
56.   Similarly, during project preparation, it was evident that the manpower information
system is effective. It is comparatively easy to obtain reports by cadre, hospital, district and zone
on posts sanctioned, revised norms and vacancies, as well as the basic salary ranges by cadre.
With greater responsibility for recruiting all cadres, there will be greater need for accurate
manpower information, and also greater opportunity to confirm its accuracy and
comprehensiveness.
Actions Taken and/or Understandings Reached
57.   There are four broad elements to the proposal: (i) enhancing and extending the
computerized system through provision of hardware and software, and consultancy support; (ii)
establishing trained and equipped informatin cells at HQ and district levels; (iii) training all
management staff in the importance and use of information and ensuring SOPs and procedures
include appropriate record keeping; and (iv) the introduction of a completely revized medical
record system for IPs and diagnostic services.
58.   The proposed equipment and software requirements, divided between HQ and district
allocations, are shown in Figure 1. The computer service at district level will be part of the
District Co-ordinator's implementation cell, based at the district hospital, but with the
responsibilities over the whole district. A bio-statistician, an office superintendent and an
accountant, as well as clerical support will be recruited for each district. They will receive in-
service training. Workshops, studies, and consultancy allocations to develop training packages
will be developed as necessary.
59.   APVVP will want to consider their own monitoring indicators and the Bank's
performance indicators (Annex 18) for various aspects of resource control, activity analysis, and
quality. Their existing systems will not necessarily be able to readily extend to cover all the new
requirements, so consultancy assistance has also been included to enable review and enhancement
of the existing hospital activity and manpower systems already in place.
60.   In terms of implementation, the intention is to ensure that the new systems, personnel and
equipment, with initial training in the use of the hardware and software are available during the
first year of the project. All the top five managers in each district will receive management
training, including training in information, record keeping and supervision during the first year,
and an increase in the allocation for stationery has been included in the project, so that managers
and departmental staff should be able to collect and submit the raw data required.
61.   The medical records system needs a thorough review and the format to be used needs to
be developed and and agreed upon. Essential data needs to be recorded and a plan needs to be
devised on records to be stored and analyzed. APVVP plans to deal with this later in 1994 when
the relevant extra staff have been appointed. It will need clinical and quality assurance inputs.
Centers in AP, such as Osmania Medical Center, are reported to have good systems which



82
Annex 5
Page 12 of 13
provide a model. A seperate allocation has been included in the project, Rs. 750,000 a year, to
permit the printing of new records, including registration cards, I/P case notes, departmental
report forms and test requests.
62.   It is proposed to maintain records for O/P within hospitals, so storage space is being
designed and equipped for I/P records only. An additional 91 records clerks will also be
recruited, and training will be provided for them. These records will begin to provide a source
of information for better planning, epidemiological surveys, assessment of case mix, and quality
review through clinical audit.
Understandings Reached
63.   Although no O/P records will be stored at the hospital, it is desirable that O/P are given
some sort of registration record, to reduce duplication of tests and examinations, ensure
recognition of previously identified drug reactions, and to alert the doctor of underlying chronic
disease such as diabetes. It would also be very helpful in supporting the referral system being
established. Various records have been issued under maternal and child health and vertical
programs, but there is nothing from the secondary hospitals. Currently, patients are merely given
a flimsy chit showing what drugs or tests are needed, which they take to the pharmacy or
diagnostic department. No permanent record is then kept.
64.   Evidence from elsewhere suggests that patients are able to safely keep such cards,
especially if a small charge is made for them. It is recommended that a suitable record be
designed, perhaps a more resilient plastic laminated card, which could have basic information
punched on it e.g. date of birth, blood group, penicillin allergy, tetanus immunization, diabetic;
for women, the number of births etc. The cost of doing this, however, has to be considered
against other options. Alternatively, a small booklet could allow the doctor to record a short note
of any preliminary diagnosis, and if the patient is being referred to another level, s/he could
carry this note with them.
65.   The numbers of patients seen in clinics is very high, and some clinicians fear that taking
time to write notes would merely clog the clinics further. However, until recently, they had
artificially shortened clinic hours which made for unnecessary time constraints. A recent decision
to lengthen clinic hours throughout the morning, and the additional medical staff proposed,
should greatly relieve the time pressure, and permit at least basic notes to be recorded.



A.P. Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (APWP)                                                                                                                         LEGEND
Organizational Chart                                                                                                                         *    Sanctioned Post already Exists
Commissioner                                          0    New Post Created by this Project
APVVP
General                                              Support Services                        Training & Referral                           Service Delivery
I                                   I~~~~~~~~   
I   -l                            0      Joint
J_ls_t                                            *      Jouit                                    Commissioner                                   oi
C_E C_ IEC
tt;_                                 (Nws  S         __________________ _____;---------;--      -------------------__       ( =.. r
-   _e~                                                                                     _    ,,__ tw
0   WSerno                            *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    LS
| _ I tdl 1S N_^ Ul _ P ~~~~~~~r_ddU| Tr-w  ItME ad IEC                                                                              I-                                            0
huiPhal       0. Weoa tmm               Nu,hg U.        w .,udk Usk            a ReferA)                                  Fert.wmo tELm           Pr~.fme.  thwl
Pn_ri   Utk       C      _wmbI tUak                                                                                 00  Sr ASH Prrnp |f bfr mpi                 |         tor Drop
*     le Eqe            0 Son osr,       * se.. Ofl1w         0   Jr Aso         0   Dy Staite Ofl,
Eq M E              *SwSK EWcr  *          Sr Aek            O* St Acs-wou    c    St Aenis                           0   sawd         *              Srn_  0Iot -F O   @0  Sal"ior a.. ,
o  ImodEa 0, *r Aus, a.              0     Dp     a F        * Ty.a           0 Ir A__       I                                                   O|C   Sr ASheaN       00  Si A/tt .w
*  steih.OWe       0 E Aonm         0      Fg *                                  Tyrp   T                                                        S    kr. Aaan         0   kr An.m
.S As,.   n        S Typir          *000  D.nMI .    Typiss                                                                                                            0   tw ti
*0    Tyt                                                                                                                          0   TYp|
Equip Mais & Tralig                                                                                                      SceayOfc
I  Cr"-u          |Vigilance Ofrice                                                                                 Secretary Ofrice
(Hyderbd)                                                                                                                      j       - 
Ll                 |                 P  ~~~~~~~~Vrnguiiice                                                                 * Secrelary
*       r. EgraneI    Officer
00     TlMue         Sq|NVis.  
0000       1u. S      r    |i |    Sm Offlr  I                                                                                              0  LDS_
| | 0  Ir.                   St ry Wmhr|S Sr Aita|l
| * Typiu   |                                                                         A| serid SWscnuy
1   411114-1111      |                                                   Finance &  Audit                                   0       s|
|   |  JO Ir A-Uffi ypa.   |                                             r                                  *                     5   TYr P-
||O      k SrAy Wrare                                             F~ otrwr                                                     I |e   Tt Op-rra
C.2mg.*                                    0~~~I      rylimf
*o Dy F' . Otletirer ......... | *   Terrl A Oer, | | * aAe                         re O ,
00    oSpa"y FO  orr,                               Anmr Aedw Offmrr,    S   RDrd  t
0  h. Eftima                              ~~~~~~~~~~0 Opn Ene k Offeon                         J rts ActsO5rer      SODpeaeto
(Reeon Cotloninti                                                    0       Srry o r0
| 0 |   edwlma ZONE ~                  P" i              00     ke Aenu/Typi           11                   |LDO S| A
00000  Er EST                                            000 S  ED Seaii               0                     EI  A                                                            |n/IytD
00     Er. Srmy W        Ie        such ZONEI                                                                                                                              LS  Ji






- 84 - -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 26
Workforce Issues
Issues
1.         A significant restriction on improving services in APVVP hospitals is the workforce,
both in terms of quality and quantity (see attached tables on medical vacancies). 'Yardsticks'
defining the sanctioned staff at hospitals of different sizes were agreed in 1977, and no longer
fit current needs; there are many vacancies, some of which are a consequence of poor
management practice (Annex 5), and some of which are a consequence of inadequate salaries,
or of supply side problems.                 t
2.         As an example of poor practice, the last medical and nursing recruitment took place
in 1991/92, although it was supposed to occur annually. For 787 posts advertised, 4,666 doctors
applied, 769 were offered posts, and several hundred failed to take up their post. The failure
to take up posts is particularly a problem for postings to remote and tribal areas. In other
words, there is not an absolute shortage of staff, but there is a shortage of staff available for
deployment in all areas.
3.         The evidence, from APVVP and other local respondents, and the report of the
Indian Society of Health Administrators (ISHA) on manpower in India, suggests that there is not
an extreme shortage of professional staff overall. Pharmacists, technicians, and MBBS grade
doctors are available in the state, but there is a shortage of some medical specialities and of
nurses. There has been a recent advertisement by the Director of Health on behalf of the
APVVP to recruit 381 doctors, and there are 4,746 applications awaiting processing.
Government posts are preferred because of the overall higher benefits compared to the corporate
sector, where only very senior doctors can charge consultation fees, and the rest are paid a set
rate for the job.
4.         Some current employment practices exacerbate supply problems by unnecessarily
restricting posts to holders of higher academic or professional qualifications, a situation
supported by local professional interests. Motivation of otherwise able people suffers, and
employment costs are raised. Costs are also raised by the practice of employing a number of
specifically named cadres instead of having a pool of workers who can cover several related
jobs. Employing several similar workers also overcomes the problems which result from high
absenteeism.
5.         The productivity of staff is low, with poor attendance, and inefficient procedures.
There is little in-service training, and professional staff are not up to date in their clinical and
management skills. Incentives to motivate staff to achieve are few. Indeed many practices inhibit
motivation e.g restricting senior posts to staff holding academic or professional qualifications,
rather than allowing competition from experienced individuals who have demonstrated their
managerial ability.



- 85 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 26
6.        The increase in staff as a result of the project, particularly doctors, will be sizeable.
Workforce MIS at APVVP is difficult to compare with what is being proposed in the project.
Details of Workforce MIS are in Annex 5 (Organization and Management of APVVP).
Action required and/or taken
7.        Workforce problems are being addressed by the Government, and through the
proposed project. Recruitment procedures used by APVVP are being reviewed to reflect the
more independent role discussed in the Annex on Organization and Management of APVVP
(Annex 5) in the section on "Greater Freedom of Action in APVVP". All procedures, including
those pertaining to recruitment, are being reviewed currently. The aim is to streamline decision
making by relying on clear criteria and delegation of responsibility, rather than bureaucratic
centralisation.
8.        The size of the total proposed size of the workforce by cadre, compared to current
total sanctioned workforce has been reviewed and are shown in the attached tables. Cost
implications of this workforce have also been taken into account in project cost analysis.
9.        The project proposal includes a manpower inventory at the start of the project, and
a close monitoring of the workforce situation throughout the life of the project. This includes
vacancies, speed of appointment, numbers taking up posts, attrition rates, etc, to permit on going
review of the situation, and the implementation of appropriate action to rectify any shortcomings.
Current MIS facilities are good, but, as indicated in the proposal, will need to be refined to
enable this to occur, and to permit better understanding of the cost implications for the project.
Restructuring of the APVVP HQ as planned should aid co-ordinated attention to personnel
matters.
10.       Since there appears to be no supply side problem, there is no need to develop
widespread additional incentive packages at this stage, and the first strategy is to improve
recruitment practices. At the moment, the situation is being addressed through provision of
improved facilities and accommodation, and when APVVP handles its own recruitment activities
it will be far more flexible in matching applicants' needs and interests with postings.
11.       However, it is likely that there will continue to be problems in recruiting staff for
rural and tribal areas. The project will address this situation with the construction of an
additional 42 Type II, 31 Type III and 23 Type IV new staff quarters for all medical staff in
tribal areas. Moreover, APVVP has agreed to offer other benefits to medical staff to increase
their committment to tribal postings, such as: a bonus at the end of a specified period of posting;
educational allowance for their children; additional leave eligibility; and extra weightage for
doctors and other staff for PG qualification admission and for fellowships.
12.       A Workforce Review Team has been set up at APVVP to appraise these packages
of benefits and incentives for effectiveness and cost. Their terms of reference have been



- 86 -
A-nnex 6
Page 3 of 26
expanded to review the effectiveness of the new recruitment procedures, once they are
implemented. They will also consider the implications of supply side changes, such as a change
of 'corporate' hospital benefits, or increased foreign demand. This team would also sponsor
ongoing studies to identify exactly what the position is regarding, for example, the supply of
anaesthetists or other suspected shortages, where current evidence is contradictory.
13.       In addition, the new Strategic Planning Cell in the Department of Health, Medical
and Family Welfare would monitor the overall situation regarding supply side and inter-
governmental matters.
14.       More effective use of the workforce will generally be aided by the training being
provided (see Annex 5, section on 'Management Training'), which will include supervision and
leadership skills as well as rewards for good practice. These would include bonus incentives,
preferential treatment for training and/or promotion, or simply some sort of "public"
recognition. Attention is being given to revising job descriptions and to setting out clearer goals
and objectives, which will make it more obvious what people are supposed to achieve (see
Annex 5, section on 'goals and objectives.')
15.       In order to encourage higher standards of performance there also needs to be more
empowerment of users, for example, by better publicity about the services they can expect (see
Annex 13, IEC Strategy), and stronger monitoring by Hospital Development Committees, etc.
This will focus attention on poor attenders, or low performance standards. Strengthening the
Vigilance section of the APWP HQ would also help to overcome absenteeism and the
consequent non-availability of services.
16.       The project proposal already shows a general move to multi-skilling/multi-tasking,
and the proposed yardsticks and the clinical referral system developments seek to encourage this.
In particular, there has been a marked drop in the number of specialists earmarked for many
posts, especially at community hospital level. It is also proposed to employ ANM/MPW(F)s to
cover about 25 % of the nursing posts in maternity areas, on a temporary basis, although this will
require training for the MPWs. The current yardsticks for nurses have been confirmed by local
nurse managers as permitting adequate 24 hour coverage of the facilities planned. Similarly, it
is proposed to convert the various thotis, stretcher bearers, etc, into one grade and designate
them as general worker.



-87 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 26
APVVP Medical Workforce
S.No. Category                 Sanct-            Revised
ioned             total
total             (APVVP
NORMS)
1. C.8.S.                      242               369
(Ra .5390-8980)
2. C.S.R.M.O.                   21                 68
(Rt .5390-8980)
3. DY.C.S.                     152               259
(RI .4400-8700)
4. DY.DENTAL SURG.              16                21
(Rs.4400-8700)
5. C.A.S.                      704              1402
(Rs .3640-7580)
6. D.A.S.                       98               123
(Rs .3640-7580)
_____________________________
GRAND TOTAL             1233                2242
-- - - - - - - -._   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
-- - -l -  -  - - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -



- 88 -       -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 26
S.No. Category                  Sanct-           Revised
ioned           total
total           (APVVP
NORMS)
1. Occupational                   1                 0
Therapist
(Rs.2750-5960)
2. Physiotherapist                0 01
(Rs.3640-7580)
3. Nursg.Bupdt.Gr.I               3                 7
(Rs.3310-6840)
4. Nurig.Supdt.Gr.II             23                68
(Ri.2930-5960)
5. Head Nurse                   316               488
(Rs.2525-5390)
6. Staff Nurse                 1818              3185
(Rt.2315-4880)
7. Nursing Orderly/            1200              1316
(Rs.1375-2375)
8. A.N.M/M.P.W                  319               470
(Rs.1873-3750)
9. Med.Sl.Wr.Gr.I                 6                 O
(Rs.2375-5040)
l0.Med.Sl.Wr.Gr.II               11                 0
(Rs.2075-4270)
1.Lady H.V.                      4                 7
(Rs.2075-4270)
12.Health Inspector              10                68
(Rs.2075-4270)
13.Health Suprvr.                 I                 _
(Rs.2315-4880)
1A.Pharmacist Suprvr.             0                42
tRs.2600-5580)
15.Pharmacist Gr.I                6                68
(Rs.2195-4560)
16.Bio-Chemist                    0                 2
(Rs.3310-6840)
17.Pharmacist Gr.II             428               442
(Re.1975-4010)
18.Radiographer                 171               192
(Rs.2075-4270)



_ 89 _
Annex 6
Page 6 of 26
S.No. Category                  Sanct-           Revised
ioned           total
total           CAPVVP
NORMS)
19.Lab Technician               223               289
(fSn. 1875-3750)
20.Lab Attendant                 115              164
(Ri.1535-2840)
21.ECG Technician                  2                0
(Rs.2075-4270)
22.Dark Room Aset.               163              192
(Rs.1665-3200)
23.Refractionist                 20                21
(Rs.2075-4270)
24.Optometerist/                   2                0
Ophth.Aset.
CR,.2195-4560)
25.Theatre Agst.                  79              168
(Rs.1535-2840)
26.Electrician                   26                70
(R*.1875-3750)
27.Lay Secy.Gr.I                   -               21
(R%.3640-7580)
28.Lay Secy.Gr.II                 19               68
(Rs.3110-6380)
29.Off. Supdt/                   22                42
Aecountant
(Rs.2600-5580)
30.Bio-Statistician               0                21
(Rs.2600-5580)
31.Sr.A,iistant                 131               259
(Rs.2195-4560)
32.Jun.Assistant                323               580
rRi.1745-3420)
33.Junior Analyst                 6                42
(R .2375-5040)
34.Typist                        47               117
(Re.1745 - 3420)
35.Data Processing Officers       0                21
(Ro.2600 - 0580)



- 90 -
Annex 6
Page 7 of 26
-- - - - - - - ----- -- - ---- - - ----- --- -- --- -- ------- ---- --- -- --
S.No. Category                Sanct-         Revised
ioned          tota.
total          (APVVP
NORMS)
36.Telephone Opr.               3             133
Reception.
(Rs.1745 - 3420)
37.Record Asst.                35              91
(Rs.1535 - 2840)
38.0ff.Attdt./Peon            165             184
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
39.Dhobis                     229               0
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
40.Mali                       148              42
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
41.Driver (Amb.)               98             239
(Rs.1595 - 3020)
42.Cleaner/Amb.Attn.           24             150
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
43.Mechanic                    20               0
CRs.1375 - 2375)
44.Plumber                     26              68
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
45.Carpenter                   19               0
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
46.Barber                      39               0
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
47.Tailor                      18              21
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
48.Thoties/Sweepers/         1499            2403
JSWs.
(Ri.1375 - 2375)
49.Watchman/Waterman          224             382
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
GRAND TOTAL                  8042           12164
--- - --- ---- --- ---- - -- -- - - --- -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -



- 91 -
Annex 6
Page 8 of 26
Yardsticks of Staffing Pattern of Community Hospitals
Existing Government Norms and APVVP Norms
(30 and 50 Bedded Hospitals)
S.NO. NAME OF THE      30 BEDDED HL.            50 BEDDED HL.
POST           ---------------       ------------------
1977 Y/S.    APVVP      1977 Y/S.    APVVP
+ LATEST     PROPOSED  - LATEST       PROPOSED
ADDN.         Y/S.      ADDN.          Y/S.
--------------------------------------------------------------
1        2           3       q 4              5          6
1.CL.SURG.SPL.         1         -              l
(Rs.5390-8990)  (O&G/GM/
GS/PAED.)
2.DY.CL.SURGEON        1                        1         I
(Rs.4400-8700)
3.CIV.ASST.SURG.       3         '4             4         5
(Rs.3640-7580)
4.DENTAL ASST.SURG.    1          1             1
(Rs.3640-7580)
5.HEAD NURSE           1          1             1         1
(Rs.2525-5390)
6.STAFF NURSE          6         6             10        10
(Rs.2315-4880)
7.A.N.M.               1          Z            Z
(Rs.1875-3750)
B.NURSING ORDERLY      3         3             5          5
(Rs.1375-2375)    (M-Z;                  (M-3;F--P)
F-1)
9.PHARMACIST GR.II                1            z          2
(Rs.1975-4010)
10.LAB TECHNICIAN      -1         1             1         1
(Rs. 1875-3750)
11.RADIOGRAPHER        1          I      1           1
(Rs.2075--4270)
12.DARK ROOM ASST.    l     1                   1         1
(Rs.1665-3200)
13.SR.ASST.           -          -              I         I
(Rs.2195-4560)
14.JR.ASST.            1         l              1         1
(Rs.1745--3420)



- 92 -
Annex 6
Page 9 of 26
Yardsticks of Staffing Pattern of Community Hospitals
Existing Government Norms and APVVP Norms
(30 and 50 Bedded Hospitals) (cont'd)
1        2            3         4              5         6
15.COOKS               1          -             2
(Rs. 1375-2375)
16.DHOBI(CONTINGENCY/ 1           -             2
CONTRACT)
17.MALI(CONTINGENCY)   1          -             I         -
(Rs.1375-2373)
18.THOTIES/SWEEPERS   5          5(JSW)        7          7 (JSW)
(Rs.1375-2375)
19.DRIVER tAMB.)       -          1             -          1
(Rs.1595-3020)
20.AMB.ATTENDER/       -          1                        I
CLEANER(Rs..1375-2375)
21.WATERMAN/WATCHMAN  I           1             2          2
(Rs. 1375-2375)          (WATCHMAN)
T O T O   L      31        31            46         43
COST            9.92      9.80         13.80      13.96
(Rs.in lakhs)



- 93 -
Annex 6
Page 10 of 26
Yardsticks of Staffing Pattern of Area Hospitals
Existing Government Norms and APVVP Norms
(100 Bedded Hospitals)
S.NO. NAME OF THE                100  BEDDED HOSPITAL
POST                   --------------------------
1977 Y/S.              APVVP
+ LATEST                PROPOSED
ADDN.                  Y/S.
1        2                     3                        4
1.CIVIL SURGEON SPECIALISTS   4                          4
(Rs.5390-8990)
2.CIVIL SURGEON R.M.O.          1                        1
(Rs.5390-8990)
3.DY.CIVIL SURGEONS             -                        2
(Rs.4400-8700)
4.CIVIL ASST.SURGEONS          16+4                      12*
(Rs.3640-7580)
5.DENTAL ASST.SURGEON           1                        1
(Rs.3640-7580)
6.NURSING SUPDT.                I                        I
GR.II (Rs.2930-5960)
7.HEAD NURSE                    4                        4
(Rs.Z525-5390)
8.STAF, NURSES                 Z4                       24
(Rs.E315-4880)
9.NURSING ORDERLY              10                        a
(Rs.1375-2375)
10.A.N.M.                       3                        3
(Rs.1875-3750)
11.HEALTH INSPECTOR             -                        1
(R5.2075-4270)
12.PHARMACIST GRADE I           1                        1
(Rs .2195-4560)
13.PHARMACIST GRADE II          4                        3
(Rs.1975-4010)
14.REFRACTIONIST                1                        -
(Rs.2075-4270)
15.LAB-TECHNICIAN               3                        3
(Rs.1875-3750)



- 94 -
Annex 6
Page 11 of 26
Yardsticks of Staffing Pattern of Area Hospitals
Existing Government Norms and APVVP Norms
(100 Bedded Hospitals) (cont'd)
1        2                    3                        4
16.LAB ATTENDANTS                                       2
(Rs.1535-2840)
17.RADIOGRAPHER                 l1
(Rs.2075-4270)
18.DARK ROOM ASST.              1                       1
(Rs.1665-3200)
19.STRETCHER BEARER            2                        _
(Rs.1375-2375)
2O.THEATRE ASSISTANT            2                       2
(Rs.1535-2840)
21.ELECTRICIAN                  l                       1
(Rs. 1875-3750)
22.LAY SECY & TR.GR.II          1                        1
(Rs.3110-6380)
23.ACCOUNTANT                   1                       _
(Rs.2600-5580)
24.SENIOR ASSISTANTS            3                       2
(Rs.2195-4560)
25.JUNIOR ASSISTANTS/TYPISTS  6                         6
(Rs.1745-3420)
26.TYPIST                       1                        1
(Rs. 1745-3420)
27.TELEP,HONE OPERATOR-         -
CUM-RECEPTIONIST
(Rs. 1745-3420)
28.MEDICAL RECORD ASSISTANT   1                          1
(Rs. 1535-2840)
29.OFF.ATTENDER                 2                       2
(Ri.1375-2375)
30.CARPENTER                    1
(Rs.1375-2375)
31.TAILOR                       1
(Rs.1375-2375)
32.COOKS                        2
(Rs. 1375-2375)
33.DHOBI (ON CONTRACT)          2
34.MALI (CONTINGENCY)           2
(Rs.1375-2375)



- 95 -      -
Annex 6
Page 12 of 26
Yardsticks of Staffing Pattern of Area Hospitals
Existing Government Norms and APVVP Norms
(100 Bedded Hospitals) (cont'd)
1        2                    3                        4
35.DRIVER (AMBULANCE)           2                        2
(Rs.1595-3020)
36.CLEANER/AMB.                 1
ATTENDER
(Rs.1375-2375)
37.MECHANIC
(Rs.1375-2375)
38.PLUMBER
(Rs. 1375-2375)
39.BARBER (CONTRACT)            1                         _
40.THOTIES/SWEEPERS            15                        24 (J.S.W.)
(Rs. 1375-2375)
41.WATCHMAN                    2                         2+1
(Rs.1375-2375)
42.WATERMAN                     l
(Rs.1375-2375)
134                       122
COST                    47.26                     38.81
(RS. IN LAKHS)
Earmarking of Specialists:
CIVIL SURGEON SPECIALISTS _
(SR. CONSULTANTS)
MD. GENERAL MEDICINE            .... 1
MS. GENERAL SURGERY             ....
MD. OBST.& GYNAECOLOGY          ....
MD. PAEDIATRICS                 ....       1
* CIVIL ASSISTANT SURGEONS        ...  12
(JR. CONSULTANTS)
MD. GENERAL MEDICINE            ....
MS. GENERAL SURGERY             ....       I
MD. OBST.& GYNAECOLOGY          ....       I
MD. PAEDIATRICS                 ....       1
DA/MD. ANAESTHESIA              ....       2
DCP/MD. PATHOLOGY               ....       1
RADIOLOGIST                     ....       1
REST                            ....       OPEN



- 96 -
Annex 6
Page 13 of 26
Yardsticks of Staffing Pattern of District Hospitals
Existing Government Norms and APVVP Norms
(200, 250 and 300+ Beds)
S.NO. NAME OF THE POST          200 BEDDED HL.        250 BEDDED HL.        300 + BEDDED HL.
GOVT.EXIST.  APVVP   GOVT.EXIST.  APVVP   GOyT.EXT.  APVVP
NORMS      NORMS      NORMS       NORMS   NORMS        NORMS
2                     3         4          5           6        7          a
1.CIVIL SURGEON SPECIALISTS         7         8          7           8        7          a
(Rs.5390-8980)
2.CIVIL SURGEON R.M.O.              1         1          1           1        1          1
(Rs.5390-8980)
3.DEPUTY CIVIL SURGEONS             3         3          3           3        3          3
(Rs.4400-8700)                          (1 RMO)                 (1 RMO)             (1 RMO)
4.DEPUTY DENTAL SURGEON             1         1          1           1        1          1
(Rs.4400-8700)
3.CIVIL ASSISTANT SURGEONS/DY.   18          18         20          20       21         21
(Rs.3640-7580)
6.PHYSIO-THERAPIST                  -         1          -            1       -          I
(Rs.3640-7580)
7.NURSING SUPDT. GRADE I            -         -          _           _
(R,.3310-6840)
B. NURSING SUPOT. GRADE II          1         1          1            l        1          1
(Rs.2930-5960)
9. HEAD NURSE                                 a B       10           10      12         12
(Rs.2525-5390)
***
10.STAFF NURSE                     48       48          60          60       78 78
(Rs.2315-4880)
11.NURSING ORDERLY                 20        20         25          25       30         30
(Rs.1375-2375)
12.A.N.M.                           5         5          6           6        6          6
(Rs.1875-3750)
13.HEALTH INSPECTOR                 -                                1        -          1
(Rs.2075-4270)
14.PHARMACIST SUPERVISOR            -         -1         -                               1
(Rs.2600-5580)
15.PHARMACIST GRADE I               1         1          1           l        1          1
(Rs.2195-4560)
16.PHARMACIST GRADE II              7         5          9           7       .11         7
(Rs. 1975-4900)
17. DENTAL LAO TECHNICIAN           0         1          0           1        0          1
(Rs.1875 - 3750)



- 97 -
Annex 6
Page 14 of 26
Yardsticks of Staffing Pattern of District Hospitals
Existing Govermnent Norms and APVVP Norms
(200, 250 and 300+ Beds) (cont'd)
1            2                      3         4           5           6        7           8
18.RADIOGRAPHER                      3         3           3           3         3          3
(Rs.2075-4270)
19.JR.ANALYST/(8IO-CHEMIST)          -         1           -           1        -           I
(Rs.2375-5040)
20. JR.ANALYST/(MICRO BIOLOGIST) -              l          -           1        _
(Rs.2375-5040)
21.LAB-TECHNICIAN                    3         3           3           3         3          3
(Rs.187S-3750)
22.LAB ATTENDANTS                    3         3           3           3         3          3
(Rs.1535-2840)
23.DARK ROOM ASSISTANTS              3         3           3           3         3          3
Rs.1665-3200)
24.REFRACTIONIST                     I         1           1           1         1          1
(Rs.2075-4270)
25.THEATRE ASSISTANT                 3         3           3           3         4          4
(Rs.1535-2840)
26.STRECHER BEARER                   2         -           2           -        2           -
(Rs.1375-2375)
*27.ELECTRICIAN                       1         1          1            1        1          1
(Rs.1875-3750)
28.LAY SECRETARY & TR. GR.II         1          1          l                     I1         1
CRs.3110-6380)
29.OFFICE SUPDT (ACCOUNTANT)         1         1           1           1         1          1
(Rs.2600-5580)
30.BIO-STATISTICIAN                  -         *1          -           1        -           I
(Rs.2600-5580)
31.SR.ASSISTANTS                     4         3           5           4        6           5
(Rs.2195-4560)
32.4R.ASSISTANTS                     8         6         10            8       12          10
(Rs.1745-3420)
33.TYPL1TS                           2         2          2            2        3           3
(Rs.1745-3420)
34.DATA PROCESSING OFFICER           -         1                       I        -           1
(Rs.2600-5580)
35.TELEPHONE OPERATOR-               -         4          _            4        -           4
CUM-RECEPTIONIST
(Rs.1745-3420)
36.RECORD ASSISTANT                  2         2          2            2        2           2
(Rs.1535-2840) 



- 98 -
Annex 6
Page 15 of 26
Yardsticks of Staffing Pattern of District Hospitals
Existing Govermment Norms and APVVP Norms
(200, 250 and 300+ Beds) (cont'd)
--    -__-       - --__   __  ____-_-__-_                             -  _ -    _-  _
l1         2                    3        4          5          6       7         8
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
37.OFFICE ATTENDER               3         3         4          4       5          5
(Rs.1375-2375)
38.COOKS                                             4          -       4          -
(Rs.1375-2375)
39;DHOBI.                        3         -         4          -       4          _
(Rs.1375-2375)
40.MALI  (CONTINGENCY)           2         2         2          2                  2
(Rs.1373-2375)                       REGULAR              REGULAR           REGULAR
41.DRIVER (AMBULANCE)            3         3         3          3       3          3
(Rs.1595-3020)
42.CLEANER/AhB.ATTENDANT         I         1         1          1       1          1
(Rs.1375-2375)
43.CARPENTER                     I         -         I          -       1          -
(Rs.137S-2375)
44.MECHANIC                      1         -         I          -       I          -
(Ri.1375-2375)
45.PLUMBER                        1        1         1              1         1
(Rs.i375-2375)
*46.BARBER                        2        -          2          -       2         -
(Rs.1375-2375)
47.TAILOR (CONTRACT/CONTING.)    1         1         1          1        l         1
(Rs.1375-237S)                      REGULAR               REGULAR          REGULAR
48.THOTIES/SWEEPERS             25       25         30         30      40         40
(Rs.1375-2375)
49.WATCHMAN                      4         4         4          4       4          4
(Rs.1375-2375)
T O T A L             208       211        243       239     267       293
COST (Rs. in lakhs)      67.04     67.60      77.77     78.28    90.24    91.83
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-             -  -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.



- 99   -
Annex 6
Page 16 of 26
Earmarking of Specialists
C.S.S. (SR. CONSULTANTS)
1. MD. GENERAL MEDICINE                   1
2. MS. GENERAL SURGERY                    1
3. MD. OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY .
4. MD. PAEDIATRICS                        1
5. MD. ANAESTHESIA                        1
6. MS. ORTHOPAEDICS
7. MS. OPHTHALMOLOGY
S. OPEN :
FORENSIC SPECIALIST/
CARDIOLOGY/RADIOLOGY/
PATHOLOGY
C.A.S. (JR. CONSULTANTS)
SPECIALITY
1. MD. GENERAL MEDICINE                   1
2. MS. GENERAL SURGERY                    1
3. MD. OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY           2
4. MD. PAEDIATRICS                        1
5. DA/MD. ANAESTHESIA                     2
6. MS. ORTHOPAEDICS                       1
7. MS. OPHTHALMOLOGY                      1
B. DCP/MD CLINICAL PATHOLOGY              1
9. MD. RADIOLOGY                          1
10. rS. E.N.T.                             I
11. REST OPEN
STAFF NURSES   :  The norms have been based on 325 beds i.e., one
itaff nuirse for 5 beds + 20% of the total
strength.



- 100 -
Annex 6
Page 17 of 26
Yardsticks of Staffing Pattern of M.CH. Hospitals
(50 and 100 Bedded)
-----------------------------------------------------------------
S.NO. NAME OF THE POST       50 BED HL.                   100 BED HL.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
1.CL.SURG.SPL.                   1                            3
(Rs.5390-8990)
2.DY.CIVIL SURGEON                                            1
(Rs.4400-8700)              R.M.O.                       R.M.O.
**
3.CIVIL ASSISTANT SURG.          6                           10
(Rs.3640-7580)
4.PATHOLOGIST                    -                            1
(Rs.3310-6840)(CLINICAL)
5.HEAD NURSE                      1                          2+2
(Rs.2525-5390)
6.STAFF NURSE                    8                           16
(RS.2315-4880)
7.A.N.M.                         4                            8
(Rs.1875-3750)
8.LADY H/V.                       1
(Rs.2075-4270)
9.NURSING ORDERLY                5                            8
(Rs. 1375-2375)                                     (100% FEMALE)
9.PHARMACIST GR.II               2                            4
(Rs.1975-4010)
11.LAB tECHNICIAN                l1                           2
(Rs.1875-3750)
12.RADIOGRAPHER                  I                            1
(Rs.2075-4270)
13.DARK ROOM ASST.               1                            1
(Rs.1665-3200)
14.THEATRE ASST.                 -                            2
(rs.1535-2840)
15.ELECTRICIAN                   -                            I
(Rs. 1875-3750)
16.LAB ATTENDER                  1                            l
(Rs.1535-2840)
17.SR.ASST.                      1                            2
(Rs.2195-4560)
18.JR.ASST/TYPIST                1                            3
(Ru.1745-3420)



- 101 -
Annex 6
Page 18 of 26
Yardsticks of Staffing Pattern of M.CH. Hospitals
(50 and 100 Bedded) (cont'd)
____________________________________________________.___________
S.NO. N,AME OF THE POST       50 BED HL.                   100 BED HL.
________________________________________________________________
19.TELEPHONE OPERATOR             -                             1
(Rs.1745-3420)
20.RECORD ASSISTANT                                             1
(Rs.1535-2840)
21.ATTENDER                                                     2
(Rs.1375-2375)
22.DRIVER (AMB.)                   1                            1
(Rs. 1595-3020)
23.AMB.ATTENDER/                   1                            1
CLEANER (Rs. 1375-2375)
24.JR.SANITARY WORKERS            10                           18
(Rs. 1375-2375)                                       (100% FEMALE)
25.WATCHMAN                        1                           3
(Rs.1375-2375)
T O T A L             48                           95
COST (Rs.in lakhs)         14.36                       29.51
Earmarking of Civil Surgeon Specialists and C.A.S.
CL2.. S(SR.CONSULTANTS)                50 BEDS       100 BEDS
SPECIALITY :
MD. OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY             1              2
MD. PAEDIAATRICS                                        1
**
C.A.6. (JR.CONSULTANTS)
SPECIALITY :
MD. OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY             4              7
MD. PAEDIATRICS                          1              2
MD. ANAESTHESIA                          1              1



- 102 -
Annex 6
Page 19 of 26
APVVP Yardsticks for Staffing Pattern
of 50 Bedded Paediatric Hospital
S.NO. NAME OF THE                    50 BEDDED HL.
POST                           APVVP NORMS.
1        2                                3
1.CL.SURG.SPL.                             1
(Rs.5390-8990)
2.CIV.ASST.SURG.                           4
(Rs.3640-7580)
3.DENTAL ASST.SURG.                        1
(Rs.3640-7580)
5.HEAD NURSE                               1
(Rs.2525-5390)
6.STAFF NURSE                              8
(Rs.2315-4880)
7.A.N.M.                                  2+2
(Rs.1875-3750)
8.NURSING ORDERLY                          5
(Rs.1375-2375)
9.PHARMACIST GR.I1                         2
(Rs.1975-4010)
10.LAB TECHNICIAN                          1
(Rs.1875-3750)
11.RADIOGRAPHER
(Rs.2071-4270)
12.DARK ROOM ASST.
(Rs.1665-3200)
13.SR.ASST.                                1
(Rs.2195-4560)
14.JR.ASST.
(Rs.1745-3420)
15.JLJNIOR SANITARY WORkERS                7
(Rs.1375-2375)
16.DRIVER (AMB.)                           1
(Rs.1595-3020)
17.AMB.ATTENDER/                           1
CLEANER(Rs.1375-2375)
18.WATCHMAN                                2
(Rs.1375-2375)
T O T A L          42
COST (Rupees in lakhu) : Rs. 13.25



- 103 -
Page 20 of 26
APVVP Yardsticks for Staffing Pattern of
City dispensaries (21)
S.NO. NAME OF THE POST          UNIT        1977       APVVP
COST       GOVT       NORMS
YARD-
STICKS+
ADDITION
1. bY.CIVIL SURGEON             0.69         1           1
(Rs.4400 - 8700)
2. CIVIL ASST. SURGEON          0.56          1           l
(Rs.3640-7580)
3. STAFF NURSE                  0.35          1           1
(Rs.2315 - 4880)
4. PHARMACIST GR.II             0.30         1            l
(Rs.1975 - 4010)
5. A.N.M.                       0.29          1          1
(Rs.1875 - 3750)
6. LAB-TECHNICIAN               0.29         1           -
(Rs.1875 - 3750)
7. NURSING ORDERLY              0.21         2           2
M.N.0(1)/F.N.0(1)
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
8. WATERMAN/WATCHMAN            0.21         1            1
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
9. THOTIES                      0.21         2           2
(RS.1375 - 2375)
____________________
T OT TA L                            11          10
COST (RUPEES IN LAKHS)                3.53        3.24
-----------------------------------------------------------------



- 104 -
Annex 6
Page 21 of 26
APVVP Yardsticks for Staffing Pattern of
Secretariat Dispensary
---------------------------------------------------------------
S.NO. NAME OF THE POST          UNIT       1997 GOVT      APVVP
COST     YARDSTICKS+   NORMS
ADDITION
1. CIVIL SURGEON SPL.           0.84            1           1
(Rs.5390 - 8980
2. CIVIL ASST. SURGEON          0.56            2           3
(Rs.3640-7580)
3. DENTAL ASST.SURGEON          0.56            -           1
(Rs.3640 - 7580)
4. STAFF NURSE                  0.35            2           2
(Rs.2315 - 4880)
5. PHARMACIST GR.II             0.30            2           2
(Rs.1975 - 4010)
6. LAB-TECHNICIAN               0.29            1           1
(Ri.1875   3750)
7. NURSING ORDERLY              0.21            2           2
M.N.0(1)/F.N.0(1)
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
8. ATTENDER                     0.21            1           1
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
13.SWEEPERS                     0.21            2           2
(Rs.1375 --2375)
T O T A L                               ;2         14
COST (RUPEES IN LAKHS)                4.60        5.72
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 105 -
Annex 6
Page 22 of 26
District Coordinator Office
Category - B District (Less than 500 Beds)
(RUPEES IN LAKHS)
S;No. Category of Post               No.of
posts
1.  a) LAY SECY. GR.I / A.O.          1
(Rs.3640 - 7580)
b) A.F.O/A.A.0                    l
(Rs.3110 - 6380)
c) ACCOUNTANT
(R%.2600 - 5580)
d) SR. ASST.                      1
(Rs.2195 - 4560)
c) JR. ASST.                     2
(Rs.1745 - 3420)
d) JR. STENO                     l1
(Rs.1745 - 3420)
c) TYPIST-CUM-TELEX OPERATOR      1
2.  a) PHARMACIST SUPERVISOR          1
(Rs.26D0 - 5580)
1. 
b) 9EDL.STORES ATTENDENT          1
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
c) CLASS IV (WORKERS)            2
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
T O T A L      2       12
COST         5     3.85
( RS. IN LAKHS )
FOR 21 D.C.H.S OFFICES IN THE STATE
COST I 21 X 3.85 - 80.85



- 106 -
Annex 6
Page .3 of 26
APVVP Head Office Costing
----------__-__----------------------------------------------__-----
NAME OF THE POST       POSTS   TOTAL      ADDL.   ANNUAL   TOTAL  ADDL.
SANC.   POSTS     POSTS.  UNIT      COST   COST
PROPOSED          COST
HEAD OFFICE
Commisssioner         1         1         0     1.97     1.97
(Ri.7580-10100)
Jt.Commissioner       3        3w         0     1.42     4.26     -
(Rs.6150 - 9820)
Vigilance Officer     1         1         0     1.42     1.42   0.52
CRs.6150 - 9820)                                             (inc.in
scale)
Dy.Commissioner       0        2          2     0.95      1.90   1.90
(Rs.5770 - 9260)
Asst. Commissioner    0        2          2     0.90    18o   1.80
(Rs.5390 - 8980)
Secretary             1         1         -     0.95     0.95
(Rs.5770 - 9260)
Jt. Secretary         2        2          -     1.80     1.80      -
(Rs.5390 - 8980)
(the post of Addl.Secy
changed to Jt.Secy-)
Asst. Secretary       1        2          1     0.51     1.02   0.51
(Rs.3110 - 6380)
Section Off'icer     20       23          3     0.43     5.59   1.29
(Ru.26db0 - 5580)
Sr. Assistants       14       27         13     0.36     9.72   4.68
(Rs.2195 - 4560)
Jr.Asst.-cum-typist  13       14          1    0.29      4.06   0.29
(Rs.1745 - 3420)
Steno                 7        9          2     0.29     2.61   0.58
(Rs,t745 - 3420)
U.D.Steno             1         1         -     0.36     0.36    -
(Rs.2195 - 4560)
Executive Engineer    1         l         -     0.73     0.73      _
(Rs.4400 - 8700)
Equipment Engineer    1         1         -     0.73     0.73      -
(Rs.4400 - 8700)
Dy.E.E.(Bio-Medl)     0         1         1    0.60      0.60   0.60
(Rs.3640 - 7580)
Senior Architect      I         1         -     0.73     0.73      -
(Rs.4400 - 8700)



- 107 -
Annex 6
Page 24 of 26
APVVP Head Office Costing (cont'd)
NAME OF THE POST        POSTS   TOTAL       ADDL.   ANNUAL   TOTAL  ADDL.
SANC.   POSTS      POSTS.  UNIT      COST   COST
PROPOSED           COST
Draughtsman            -1        3          2     0.43      1.29   0.86.
(Rs.2600 - 5580)
Finance Officer         I        r          -     1.42      1.42     -
(Rs.6150 - 9820)
Dy. Fih. Officer                 2          1     0.90      1.80   0.90
(Rt.5390 - 8980)
Internal Audit Offr.   1         1          -     0.95      0.95     -
(Rs.5770 - 9260)
Asst.Fin.Officer       2        ,Z          -     0.51      1.02     -
(Rs.3110 - 6380)
Dy.I.A.O.              0         1          1     0.90      0.90   0.90
(Rs4.5390 - 8980)
Asst. Audit Officer   4          5          1     0.60      3.00   0.60
(Rs.3640 - 7580)
Asst.Accounts Offr.   4          5          1     0.51      2.55   0.51
(Rs.3110 - 6380)
Sr. Accountants       22        23          1     0.36      8.28   0.36
(Rs.2195 - 4560)
Jr. Accountants        5        11          6     0.29      3.19   1.74
(Rs.1745' - 3420)
Shroff                 1         1          0     0.26      0.26      -
(Rs.1595 - 3020)
Dy.Statistical Offr.   1         1          -     0.43      0.43     -
(Rs.2600 - 5580)
Statistician           1         1          -     0.36      0.36     -
(Rs.2195 - 4560)
TElephone Operator     1         1          -     0.29      0.29     -
(Rs.1745 - 3420)
Record Acsts.          2         2          -     0.25      0.50     -
(Rs.1535 - 2840)
Roneo Operator         1         1          -     0.25      0.25     -
(Rs.1535 - 2840)
Dispatchers (R.A.)    2          2          -     0.25      0.50     -
(Rs.1535 - 2840)
Pharmacist Gr.II       -         1          -1    0.32      0.32   0.32
(Rs.1975 - 4010)



- 108 -
Annex 6
Page 25 of 26
APVVP Head Office Costing (cont'd)
NAME OF THE POST         POSTS   TOTAL        ADDL.   ANNUAL   TOTAL  ADDL.
SANC.    POSTS      POSTS.  UNIT       COST   COST
PROPOSED            COST
Systems Analyst         -          1          1     0.90       0.90   0.90
(Rs.5390 - 8980)
Computer Programmer   -                       2 Z   0.5        1.02   1.02
(Rs.3110 - 6380)
Data Procesg.Offr.      2         2           -     0.43      0.86       -
(Rs.2600 - 5580 )
Driver                  4         6           2     0.26       1.56   0.52
(Rs.1595 - 3020)
Peons/Sweeper/Jsw    23          29          6      0.22      6.38    1.32
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
Watchman                3         4           1     0.22       0.88   0.22
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
------------------------------------------------
SUB TOTAL             149       200         51               79.16  22.34
-------------------------------------------------
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -



- 109 -
Annex 6
Page 26 of 26
Costing of Bio-vMedical Workshop-Cum-Training Center
and
Civil Engineering Department
NAME OF TIIE POST        POSTS   TOTAL       ADDL.   ANNUAL   TOTAL  ADDL.
SANC.   POSTS       POSTS.  UNIT       COST   COST
PROPOSED            COST
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _---_ - _ _- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
BID MEDICAL WORKSHOP CUM TRAINING CENTRE    ZONAL (4)
Asst.E.E.(Bio-medl.)   1          4          3      0.51      2.04   1.53
(Jr.Engr)(Rs.3110 - 6380)
Techinical Instru--     0         8          8      0.43      3.44   3.44
ment Supervisor
(Rs.2600 - 5580)
Biornedl.Technician    0         16         16      0.29      4.64   4.64
(Rs.1875 - 3750)
J S Ws                  1         8          7      0.22      1.76   1.54
(Rs.1375 - 2375)
-----------------------------------------------
SUB TOTAL               2        37         35               11.88  11.15
-----------------------------------------------
CIVIL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
Dy. Exec. Engineer    6           6          -      0.60      3.60      -
(Rs.3640 - 7580)
Asst.E;(ec.Engineer   11         23         12      0.51    11.73   6.12
(Rs.3110 - 6380)
SUB TOTAL              17        29         12               15.13   6.12
Abstract
POSTS      TOTAL        ADDL.       TOTAL    ADDL.
SANC.      POSTS        POSTS.      COST      COST
PROPOSED
HEAD OFFICE           149        200          51         79.16    22.34
BIO MEDICAL             2         37          35          11.88     11.15
WORKSHOP/TRAINIG
ENGINEERING DEPT.      17         29          12         15.13      6.12
GRAND TOTAL          168        266          98        106.17    39.61



- 110        -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 13
Clinical and Diagnostic Norms at APVVP Hospitals
1.        During the preparation of the AP District Health Systems Project, the Andhra
Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (APVVP) organized a workshop to review the norms for
clinical services and equipment for each of the three levels of hospitals within the APVVP
system i.e. the Community Hospitals (30-50 beds), the Area Hospitals (75-100 beds) and the
District Hospitals (250-350 beds). The workshop brought together 35 participants including
senior clinicians; nursing and other technical staff with work experience in the different levels
of the health care system; and senior planners, hospital managers and program managers from
the Directorate of Health.
2.         The workshop served as a vehicle to mobilize their experience and expertise in
refining the details of the proposed project. While serving to broaden the participation of several
key persons in project preparation, it was expected that these key persons would subsequently
form nuclei around which several further working groups and committees would be formed.
These would contribute to the development of further components of the project such as the
referral system, review of hospital formularies and drug lists, training component etc. This user-
responsive workshop will serve as a springboard for the involvement of increasingly large
numbers of persons in the preparation and subsequent implementation of the project. This should
contribute towards a substantial sense of 'ownership' of the project in Andhra Pradesh.
Objectives
3.         The objectives of the. workshop were to:
(a)  Review and recommend the range of clinical, technical, administrative and dnsic
services that should be available in the three defined types of hospitals in the
APVVP, in particular distinguishing them from the services available at the primary
and tertiary levels of care.
(b)  Based on the proposed range of services, to recommend the norms for physical
assets, equipment, instruments, furnishings, materials etc. that would be needed to
provide services of adequate quality.
4.         Decisions on the norms for the clinical and diagnostic services that should be
available at each level of hospital are influenced by:
(a)  the epidemiological pattern of health problems;
(b)  the administrative feasibility and the political and cultural acceptability of providing
appropriate human, physical and technological resources at a particular level of
hospital; and



- 111 - -
Amex 7
Page 2 of 13
(c) particular characteristics such as the availability and accessibility of alternate sources
of equivalent services.
5.           Once the norms for clinical and diagnostic services have been established, these
norms, in turn, will form the basis for developing some of the other components of the project
e.g. referral system, training etc. These interrelationships are shown in Figure 1.
Figure 1- Rationale for Clinical Service Norms at Various Facities
Levels of
clinical
care
Sonia of the Components of the Project
_D                   Dm                          t
Some ofAC Cmoenu of the Project'
- - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- ,-     -- - - -- - - -- - - -
|    Mau     |     |   5 Mun               cli-              Sudaa  i __b  _, |Ti
M=MWu A                   =                                    -----



- 112 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 13
6.         Using a worksheet of a tentative list of common health problems, and taking into
consideration the tentative staffing patterns proposed for each level of care, the participants
worked in three subgroups to consider the level of clinical care that should be available at the
primary care level and at each type of secondary care hospital. The subgroups focussed on
surgical and obstetric problems, internal medicine and paediatrics, and diagnostic services
respectively. It was agreed that the level of care that is being defined is the minimum that should
be available at each type of facility. In general, it was agreed that in the absence of a specialist
at the Community Hospital, the level of care at this level would be to treat a list of identified,
relatively minor conditions, and refer most of the 'erious conditions, including resuscitation and
stabilization of emergencies and trauma before referral.
7.         For a few selected life threatening conditions which require immediate intervention,
it was agreed that general duty medical officers would be trained to provide adequate care at the
Community Hospital level. Doctors working at this level who had specialist qualifications but
were functioning as general duty medical officers would be required to acquire the skills in
clinical disciplines other than their own so as to provide the requisite level of care, particularly
in anaesthesia and obstetric and surgical problems. It was recommended that the Area Hospitals
should have almost the same level of care as the District Hospitals except that they would
provide a more limited range of specialties.
8.         Based on the output of this working session, each group proceeded to consider the
physical facilities and equipment that would be needed to provide the level of care that was
envisaged for each level. The detailed outputs of these sessions together with some more general
recommendations that arose from the group discussions are shown in the matrix attached. Among
the more prominent decisions were the recommendations not to provide dietary and laundry
services in the hospitals.



SURGICAL: SERVICES RECOMMENDED FOR EACH LEVEL
SECONDARY
Condition / Procedure    Primary Health Care                                                                                   Tertiary level facilities
Community Hospital          Area Hospital            District Hospital
1. Basic techniques      Incision & Drainage       Incision & drainage      Same as CH                Split skin graft         N/A
Wound debridement                                  Biopsy of skin
2. Trauma & Life         Resuscitate, stabilise and   Same as PHC + securing  Same as CH +            Same as CH + follow up  Severe head injuries &
Support                  refer                     airway; circulatory      Investigate & manage      management, specialist   injuries of spinal cord
support,                 **Exploratory laporatomy  ornhopaedician
stabilisation of fractures
3. Eye                   Infections                Removal of foreign       Same as CH                Management of corneal   Corneal grafting
Community eye care       bodies                                             abrasion, ulcer; *        Retinal diseases
programme                                                                   cataract & glaucoma       Vitreous surgery
surgery                  Intra-ocular foreign
bodies
4. Ear Nose & Throat                               Removal of foreign       I & D of peritonsillar &    As AH + Laryngoscopic  All requiring
bodies                   retropharyngeal           removal of FB &          microsurgery
Epistaxis control        abscesses, tonsillectomy   drainage of mastoid
abscess.
5. Teeth & Jaw           NA                        Conservative dentistry   same as CH                As AH + management    N/A
Tooth extraction                                   of jaw fractures
6. Chest                 Resuscitate               Rib fracture              Same as CH + stabilise   Same as AH               Mediastinal injuries and
& refer                  Breast abscess            &                                                  tumours. Heart & lung
refer mediastinal injuries                        surgery
Tracheostomy,
Thoracocentesis                                                                   x
W 



SECONDARY
Condition / Procedure    Primary Health Care                                                                                 Tertiary level racilities
Community Hospital          Area Hospital           District Hospital
7. Gastrointestinal      N/A                                               All surgical procedures    Same as AH             Abdominal malignancies.
listed                                            Hepatic surgery
(incl. *appendectomy)
8. Genito-urinary        Acute urinary retention    Same as PHC +          Same as CH + urethral   Same as CH +              GU malignancies
cystotomy, hydrocele,    dilitation               management of ruptured
circumcision, vasectomy                           bladder & urethra.
Urolithiasis,
prostatectomy
9. Musculoskeletal       N/A                      Closed reduction of      Same as CH               Open reduction of        Spinal fractures
uncomplicated fractures,                          fractures                Joint reconstruct ions
POP, traction
* If possible
** Training to be provided to general duty medical officers
LaT



OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY: SERVICES RECOMMENDED FOR EACH LEVEL
SECONDARY
Condition /           Primary Health Care                                                                                 Tertiary level facilities
Procedure
Community Hospital          Area Hospital           District Hospital
1. Complicated deliveries    Refer                   Forceps, vacuum
extraction, evacuation of
retained products,
* Caesarean
2. Threatened or             Refer                   Conservative
incomplete abortion                               management
D & C
3. Family planning           Tubectomy                Same as PHC +
IUD                     laprascopic tubectomy             ._                                       _
4. Lower abdomenal pain    Refer                      Stabilise & refer        Exploratory laparotomy
& ectopic pregnancy                                               .                                                  .
5. Vaginal diseases          Refer                    Diagnosis &              Exam under anaeshesia
management
6. High risk pregnancy       Early diagnosis &        Same as PHC              Investigate
timely referrral                                  initiate management
7. PID                       Refer                    Diagnosis & therapy
8. Menstrual irregularities   Refer                   Refer                    Diagnosis &
management
9. Infertility               Refer                    Refer                    Diagnosis &
management                                     .
10. Cervical erosion        Refer                    Refer                    PAP smear & * biopsy   As AH + biopsy             Cancer surgery
I1. Malignancies            Refer                    Refer                    Diagnosis                                         Surgery radiotherapy
i A



ANASTHESEA SERVICES FOR EACH LEVEL
SECONDARY
Condition / Procedure    Primary Health Care                                                                                   Tertiary level facilities
Community Hospital          Area Hospital            District Hospital
1. Basic technique                                *Care of airway
Intubation
Equipment handling
2. General & regional                                                       Management
anaesthesia
* If possible
** Training to be provided to general duty medical officers
w -4



MEDICAL: CLINICAL SERVICES RECOMMENDED FOR EACH LEVEL
PRIMARY                                SECONDARY HEALTH CARE HOSPITALS                                          TERTIARY
CONDITION                     HEALTH                                                                                                        HEALTH CARE
CARE                                                                                                          FACILITIES
CH                          AH                          DH
I. Convulsions              Symptomatic & refer         Symptomatic treatment &      Investigate, initiate, L.P_,    Advanced investigation,  CT scan, advanced
refer                       refer                       manage, L.P., refer          neurological treatment
2. Loss of consciousness /   Symptomatic & supportive                                Initiate treatment, manage,   Initiate treatment,        CT Scan advanced
coma                                                                              refer                       manage,refer                 neurological treatment
3. Encephalities,           Symptomatic treatment,       Symptomatic treatment &     Manage, refer               Manage, support              CT Scan, advanced
meningities, CNS         refer                       refer                                                                                 neurological treatment
infections
4. Head injuries            First Aid, refer             Initiate, observe, refer    Manage, stabilise, refer for   Manage, stabilise, refer for   Advanced management
advanced management         advanced management         with altered sawrsoium with
fracture
5. Respiratory infections   Initiate, manage & refer    Investigate, manage          pH change, severe distress   pH change, severe distress
complications
6.     Asthma               Symptomatic, refer           Manage                      Severe condition (status)   Severe condition (status)
7.     C.O. P. D.           Supportive, symptomatic      Symptomatic treatment &     Investigate, manage, follow   Investigate, manage, follow
refer                       up                          up
8. Ear infection            Manage                       Manage
9. Cardio-vascular          Mild moderate: manage        Mild moderate: manage,      Accelerated and severe      Accelerated and severe
problems, hypertension                                follow up                                               conditions
10 C.V.A.                   Symptomatic management,   Symptomatic management,   Manage, follow up                Manage, follow up
refer            .          refer
w -4



PRIMARY                                SECONDARY HEALTH CARE HOSPITALS                                          TERTIARY
CONDITION                     HEALTH                                                                                                        HEALTH CARE
CARE                                                                                                          FACILITIES
CH                          AHl                         DH
II Angina, infarctions      Symptomatic management,   Investigation, management,  Investigate" manage, refer,   Investigate, manage, refer,   Complications
refer                       refer                       follow up                   follow up
12 C.H.F.                   Symptomatic management,   Initiate, manage, refer       Complicated, follow up       Complicated: follow up
refer
13 Rheumatic fever and      Symptomatic management,   Symptomatic ,management,  Investigate, manage, refer,   Investigate, manage            Complications
rheumatic heart          refer                       refer, follow up            follow up
14 GI bleeding, ulcers,     Symptomatic                 Symptomatic                  Endoscopic investigation,   Endoscopic investigation,    Complications
Diseases                                                                         treatment                    manage
15 G.E.                     Manage mild, moderate       Manage mild, moderate        Severe                      Severe
refer                       refer
16 Hepatitis                Symptomatic treatment       Initiate management, refer    Confirm diagnosis, manage   Confirm diagnosis, manage
17 Cirrhosis                Symptomatic                 Symptomatic                 Investigate, manage, follow   Investigate, manage, follow   Complications
up                          up
18 Renal UTI                Symptomatic, refer          Symptomatic, refer           Diagnosis, manage           Diagnosis, manage
19 Acute Renal failure      Symptomatic, refer          Initiate, refer              Investigate, management,    Investigate, management     Dialysis and advanced
refer                                                   management
20 Musculoskeletal          Symptomatic, refer          Symptomatic, refer           Manage                      Manage                       Recurrent: further
evaluation,complications
21 Anaemia                  Preventive and primary      Manage moderate              Manage severe               Manage severe
_   .  z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



PRIMARY                                SECONDARY HEALTH CARE HOSPITALS                                          TERTIARY
CONDITION                     HEALTH                                                                                                        HEALTH CARE
CARE                                                                                                          FACtLITIES
CH                          AH                          DH
22 Tetanus                  Symptomatic, initiate        Symptomatic, Initiate       Manage                      Manage
23 Malaria                  Manage                       Manage                      Severe                      Severe
24 AIDS                                                                              Diagnosis, initiate         Diagnosis, initiate,         Diagnose and manage
management                  management
25 Psychiatric              Symptomatic management    Symptomatic managemcnt                                                                  Severe
26 Psychiatric disorder     Manage mild, moderate        Manage mild; moderate                                                                Severe
refer                                                                                                                  I
27 Poisoning                Initiate, manage, refer      Initiate and manage, refer    Investigate, manage       Investigate, manage 
,
28 Neonatal rescuscitation    Initiate and refer        Initiate, refer              Manage                      Manage
29 Neonatal cardio-         Initiate and refer          Initiate, refer              Investigate, manage, follow   Investigate, manage, follow   Complications
pulmonary defects                                                                 up                          up
30 Diabetes                 Diagnosis, initiate          Diagnosis, initiate         Complications               Complications                -
31 Snake bite & dog bite    Manage                       Manage                      Complications               Complications                -
32 Skin disorders           Refer                        Refer                       Symptomatic, refer          Manage
33 S.T.D.s                  Manage                       Manage                      Diagnose                    Manage                                                 ;
C lb



- 120 -                                                             7
Pgl 11 d 13
DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES RECOMMENDED FOR EACH LEVEL.
X.RAY INVEST1GATIONS                                                      CH       AH        ON
PLAIN X-RAYS,
I     Chest                                                          Yes      Yes      Ys
2     Skul                                                           Ye       Ye        Ye
3     Post Nasal Space (sinus *tc)                                   Yes      Yes      yes
4     Bones                                                          Yes      Ye        Yes
5     Spines                                                         Yes      Ye        Yu
8     Kidney, Ureter & Bladder                                       Yes      Yes       Yes
7     Abdomen                                                        Yes      Y        Y"
CONTRAST:
8     Barium swalow                                                  No       Yes      Yes
9     Barium meal series                                             No       Yes       Ye
10    Barium enema                                                    No       Yea      Ye
iI    Choecystogramme                                                 No       Yes      Ye
12    Intra-Venous Pyelography                                        No       Yes      Ye
13    Retrograde pyelography                                          No       Yes      Yes
14    Hystero-salpingography                                          No       Yes      Yes
15    Sialogramme (sinus etc)                                         No       Yes      Yes
16    Myeobgraphy                                                     No       No       Ys
ULTRASONOGRAPHY                                                CH    AH    OH
I     Linear scanning: (with softwas)                                No       No        Ye
Ob/Gy., abdomen
2     Linear sector scanning  (with software)                        No       Yes       No
Ob/Gy., abdomen
3    Linear sector scanning: (with software)                         No       No       Ye
Ob/Gy., abdomen & cardiac



- 121 -
Annex 7
Page 12 of 13
IMAGING STAFF REQUIRED                                        CH       AH       DH
1     Radiographer                                                  1        2        3
2     Darkroom Assistant                                            1        2         3
SPACE REQUIRED:
1     X-Ray room                                                    1        1        2
2     Darkroom                                                      1         1        1
3     Changing room with W.C.                                       1        2        2
4     Office                                                        No        1        1
5     Drying room / stores                                          No       1         1
LAB INVESTIGATIONS                                            CH       AH       DH
1     Malaria parasite                                              Yes      Yes      Yes
2     Common parasites.                                             Yes      Yes       Yes
ind. eggs, large cysts etc
3     Common bacteriology                                           Yes      Yes      Yes
(stool examination)
4     Protein & glucose in unne                                     Yes      Yes       Yes
5     Urine deposits. crystals, casts                               Yes      Yes       Yes
& bactena cells
6     Haemoglobin concentration                                     Yes      Yes       Yes
7     Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate.                               Yes      Yes      Yes
8     a) Differentiai count                                         Yes      Yes       Yes
(WBC & RBC)
b) Red cell morphology                                        No       Yes      Yes
9     a) Platelet count                                             No       Yes      Yes
b) Total WBC                                                  Yes      Yes      Yes
c) Prothrombin                                                No       No       Yes
10    Retfulocyte count                                              No       No       Yes
11    Packed Cell Volume                                             No       Yes      Yes
12    Blood grouping & cross                                         Yes      Yes      Yes
matching
13    Blood glucose & urea                                          Yes       Yes      Yes
14    Mantoux reaction (TB test)                                    Yes       Yes      Yes



- 122 -
Annex 7
Page 13 of 13
Lab tests (cont'd)                                         CH       AH       OH
15    Pulmonary T.B. (Ziehl-Neelsen method)                       Yes     Yes      Yes
16    Leprosy(separate vertical programme)                        No      No       No
17    V.D.R.L. (syphilis)                                         No      Yes      Yes
18    Sickle cell                                                 No      No       Yes
19    Leukemia                                                    No      No       Yes
20    H.I.V. (AIDS - separate national programme)                 No      No       Yes
21    C.S.F. (glucose & urea)                                     No      Yes      Yes
22    Blood-gas analysis                                          No      No       Yes
23    Blood cholestrol & creatinine                               No      Yes      Yes
24    Liver Function Tests  (enzyme levels)                       No      Yes      Yes
25    Lipid profile                                               No      No       Yes
26    Electrotyte analyses                                        No      Yes      Yes
27    A.S.O. titre (antibody to strept. 0)                        No      Yes      Yes
28    Rosewaaler test (for rheumatoid factor)                     No      No       Yes
29    Widal's reaction (test for typhoid fever)                   No      Yes      Yes
30    Australian antigen (hepatitis B)                            No      No       Yes
31    Specific gravdy of urine                                    Yes     Yes      Yes
32     pH of urine                                                No      Yes      Yes
33    CeOl culture tests - ID & sensitivity                       No      No       Yes
(eg. bacteria, fungi)
34    Skin allergy (patch testng - tertiary level only)           No      No       No
35    Serum electrophoresis (tertiary level only)                 No      No       No
36    Hormonal estimation (Pap smear)                             No      No       Yes
37    Sperm count                                                 No      No       Yes
38    Lithium carbonate test (tertiary level only)                No      No       No
39    Blood alcohol concentration                                 No      No       No
(by forensic labs)
40    Serum bilurubin                                             No      Yes      Yes
41    Histopathology (general)                                    No      No       Yes
eg. carcinoma biopsies






- 123 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 7
Clinical Training: Improving Ouality and Effectiveness
In-service Clinical Training: Policy and Strategy
1.        In order to improve the quality and effectiveness of clinical services in the APWP
hospitals, APVVP will establish a system of regular periodic in-service training for all categories
of staff who provide clinical and diagnostic services. Training will be aimed at upgrading
clinical knowledge and practical clinical skills so as to enable staff to provide good quality care
in the range of services that have been defined as the norm for each type of hospital. In addition
to clinical skills, training will include user skills for maintenance of the equipment that will be
provided at the hospitals. Training will also aim to broaden the perspectives of hospital doctors
to recognise the health care needs of the community. This will strengthen the ability of
secondary level hospitals to support the primary level.
2.         The bulk of this training will be conducted at the upgraded District Hospitals within
the APWP system. This will be supplemented by specific training attachments at teaching
hospitals and other specialized institutions. Each District Hospital will have a conference room,
suitable teaching equipment and library facilities. For the in-service training of doctors, most
of the training will be done by senior clinicians in the APVVP hospitals who have had previous
experience as teaching staff in medical colleges in the State, with some input from selected
consultants from teaching hospitals. For the training of nurses, the APVVP is recruiting a core
group of nursing staff who will be full time trainers. For the training of other categories of staff,
the details of teaching faculty are being developed.
3.         For certain types of specialized training and for updating of the skills of specialists,
provision will be made for fellowships and clinical attachments in specialised insitutions in other
states or in foreign institutions.
Trainine needs assessment and the development of curricula.
4.         The following categories of staff will need in-service clinical training that will be
organized at the APVVP hospitals:
1. MBBS doctors (no Post Graduate qualification) working in community hospitals;
2. Staff nurses and auxiliary nurses;
3. Radiographers;
4. Laboratory Technicians;
5. Pharmacists;
6. Dentists; and
7. Doctors with a post-graduate qualification who may be expected to manage
conditions in a sister discipline at Community or Area Hospitals if there is no



- 124 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 7
specialist available in that discipline. The disciplines that are involved are
obstetrics and gynecology, general medicine and psychiatry, paediatrics, surgical
specialties and anaesthesia, and diagnostic specialties that are expected to be
available at the relevant type of hospital.
5.        Requisite competencies and related knowledge. skills and attitudes: all categories
except nurses. During the project preparation period, APVVP established thirteen (13)
curriculum development Working Groups to conduct rapid training needs assessment and prepare
appropriate curricula for each of the categories of clinical staff in the hospitals. These working
groups are composed of experienced clinicians who are competent in technical (clinical) areas.
Many of them had participated in the earlier workshop that defined the norms for clinical and
diagnostic services that should be available in each type of hospital in the APVVP system. The
working groups used the norms specified at that workshop to identify the required competencies
and the desirable knowledge and skills for staff at each type of hospital.
6.        Recognizing that the members of these Working Groups have no training or
experience in developing training courses i.e. they know what to teach, but are not experienced
in designing modem approaches on how to teach, a Training Consultant was hired to guide the
work of these Groups.
7.        The Working Groups are in the process of working through the following stages of
curriculum development:
8.        Rapid Training Needs Assessment. A 3 day workshop was conducted by the
consultant for the (approximately) 35 members of the Working Groups to provide guidance in
TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT in July, 1994. During the workshop, the working groups
were taught to identify and analyze the training needs for their target groups by comparing: a)
expected competencies; b) gaps in competencies as perceived by experienced senior clinicians;
and c) gaps in competencies as perceived by a sample of the target group. It was agreed that,
based on this excercise, an Action Plan for training would be prepared by working groups.
9.        In a follow-up meeting held on August 30-31, 1994, the steps outlined in the Action
Plan were reviewed and found to have been completed on schedule. Training lists for community
hospital doctors, specialists and laboratory personnel were ready. A priority list of clinical skills
for community hospital doctors, grouped by speciality, and a plan outlining the clinical updating
of skills were prepared in order to facilitate the preparation of training manuals and planning the
next workshop on curriculum development. Groups of related skills were put together to
facilitate designing of training modules/courses. Three sessions were organized for participants
to get familiar with clinical skills training using competency based and humanistic training
techniques. Steps in skills training viz.: demonstration, practice, feedback and assessment of
minimum level of competence were stressed. The expected outcomes of training would be the
acquisition of specific abilities vital to the performance of their jobs, improved communication
and support supervisory skills.



125 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 7
10.       Curriculum development. A 4 day workshop will be conducted by the consultant for
the working groups to provide guidance in CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT and TOT
(Training of Trainers). During this workshop, the working groups will be familiarized with the
methodology of developing curricula, and will develop samples of curricula for their target
groups. By October 1994, each group will submit a sample of the curricula developed by them
for review and comment by the consultant. The workshop would also identify a core group of
trainers derived from the specialist cadre working in district hospitals; designate six district
hospitals as training centers; and designate one of the specialists in each district hospital as
coordinator of training. While training for the core group of trainers would emphasize training
techniques, for coordinator training, the emphasis would be on planning and coordination of
district level training programs.
11.       The curricula will use a wide range of teaching packages and teaching aids such as
videos, clinical teaching mannequins etc. The emphasis will be on acquiring competence in
practical clinical skills.  The curriculum  will also integrate components of equipment
maintenance that are appropriate for equipment users. Training will focus on practical hands-on
training using prototypes of equipment and materials that will be available according to the
norms for each type of hospital. The curricula will include criteria and methods for verifying
that trainees have acquired the desired level of competency at the end of the training period.
APVVP will prepare an inventory of training manuals, trainer guides and teaching aids already
available or to be developed by other agencies.
12.       Designing the Training Approaches. Curricula will be designed for a combination
of one or more of the following three modalities:
(i) short courses - i.e. week-end courses and courses of 1-2 week duration.
(ii) placements at hospitals for practical training of a few weeks' duration.
(iii) distance learning packages.
13.       Distance Learning Packages (DLP) and Short Courses may be linked so that trainees
who have completed some components of DLP would then attend the short course so as to have
the opportunity for direct interaction, evaluation and reinforcement. Placements in hospitals
for practical training should be timed so that trainees who have attended short courses or
completed segments of the DLPs have the opportunity for upgrading the related practical skills.
14.       For practical clinical training, most of which will be done at district hospitals, the
curriculum will define competencies that have to be acquired in specified skills and procedures.
Trainees will be required to observe and practice these pre-defined skills, and their competency
will be verified and documented. For some procedures, it may be specified that they will
subsequently repeat the procedure at an area hospital under the observation of a specialist until
that specialist verifies that the desired level of competency has been acquired.
15.       Certification. APVVP will consider awarding a certificate to trainees who
successfully complete specified training programs. This certificate may be used as a pre-



- 126 -
Annex 8
Page 4 of 7
requisite for career development.
16.       Training of Trainers. Trainers who provide clinical training in APVVP hospitals
need to be updated in terms of training technology and become familiar with the specific
curriculum and distance learning packages of APVVP. Training technology that they would
have to acquire would include: selection and use of appropriate teaching methods for
development of psychomotor skills (i.e. patient management procedures), small group teaching
methods, acquisition of desirable attitudes, and methods of assessment for evaluation of learning
outcomes. For this purpose APVVP will organize appropriate short courses for staff of district
hospitals and medical colleges who will be serving as trainers in APVVP training programs.
Input for such training of trainers will be obtained from institutions such as the National Teacher
Training Centers for Medical Education and Research (e.g. JIPMER in Pondicherry, PGIER in
Chandigarh, etc.). Funds for such consultant support will be available under the Project.
17.       Distance learning packages. There is no experience in the use of distance learning
packages in the health sector in Andhra Pradesh. However, the distance learning approach, if
well managed, is known to be effective and efficient in upgrading and updating knowledge in
clinical areas. This project provides the opportunity to develop suitable distance learning
packages, for example for medical officers at community hospitals and area hospitals. It will
also provide the opportunity to test the feasibility and effectiveness of adopting this as one of
the approaches for in-service training.
18.       In order to develop this approach, it will be necessary to: (a) develop the learning
package; (b) coordinate the learning package with the other training courses that are to be
implemented; (c) establish the administrative mechanism for implementing the distance learning
program; and (d) conduct a pilot program and evaluate it before extending it throughout the
state. During the Project, APVVP will employ suitable short term consultants to assist in
developing and testing this approach.
19.       Monitoring, evaluation and updating of training programs. The Joint Commissioner,
Training in APVVP will be responsible for ensuring the development and implementation of a
system for monitoring and evaluation of the training program. Such a system will include: (a)
continuous monitoring of the training program; (b) periodic evaluations of the training programs
including concurrent and end-of-course evaluations and assessment of the performance of those
who have been trained; (c) feedback and utilization of the results of evaluation and (d) ensuring
the optimal utilization of trained personnel. A computerised information system in the format
of a wide area network (WAN) is under consideration. This network could also be utilized for
Health Management Information System (HMIS). APVVP has held discussions with the National
Informatics Center (NIC), Hyderabad, on the possibility of utilising the existing district level
network of NIC to convey APVVP HMIS data.
20.       Management of clinical training. A Joint Secretary at APVVP will be responsible
for management of clinical training. In each district, the District Coordinator will also serve



- 127 -
Annex 8
Page 5 of 7
as the District Training Coordinator. APVVP is considering incentives, as well as the office
space and materials needed for this function. All District Training Coordinators will have a joint
meeting once in three months with the Joint Commissioner responsible for Training. Training
Coordinators will be responsible for preparing the Annual District Training Plans and for
coordinating the implementation of the plans.
21.        Estimated number of participants and courses. For in-service clinical training, five
types of training are envisaged: (1) formal short courses; (2) informal week-end courses;
(3) attachments for practical clinical training; (4) distance learning; and (5) fellowships.
22.        Details of the numbers and types of clinical training that will be provided under this
project is given in Tables 1 and 2.
Nursing Training
23.        Nursing: Problems. APVVP hospitals have an inadequate numbers of nurses, and
those nurses that are available have inadequate skills and motivation and are not adequately
supervised.
24.        Strategy. This project will: (a) increase the staffing norms for general nurses and
auxiliary nurse-midwives (ANMs); (b) extend the use of auxiliary nurse mid-wives to areas such
as the outpatient department; (c) establish a systematic in-service training program for APVVP
nurses for technical clinical areas and in management and communication skills; and (d)
strengthen nursing management by establishing a nursing manager's post at APVVP, and
including supervisory nursing personnel in the management teams in each hospital.
25.        Nursing Manpower. The current production capacity of the existing nursing schools
is adequate to meet the needs of APVVP. For remote and tribal areas, it is expected that
recruitment and incentive policies to be adopted by APPVP will be effective for nurses.
Clinical Training
26.        General nurses. Training will aim at updating knowledge and skills in keeping with
the expected functions in District, Area and Community hospitals. This will be done through
a full time 2-month course in which morning hours will be used for practical skill training in
selected District hospitals while afternoon hours will be used for classroom work for updating
knowledge.
27.        Three training centers will be established; one in Hyderabad, during year 1, will
train 4 batches with 40 nurses per batch (total 160 per year), and in year 3, two further centers
will be established in selected zones, increasing the training output to 480 per year. It is
expected that during the life of the Project 1760 (60%) of the 2782 nurses will have been



- 128 -
Annex 8
Page 6 of 7
covered. Of these approximately 50% will be from district hospitals while the remainder will
be from area and community hospitals.
28.        In each center, 10 BSc nurses who are currently under the Directorate of Medical
Education will be recruited by APVVP and serve as APVVP Trainers. Each batch of 40
participants will be trained in 2 courses of 20 participants each. For practical training, 4
participants will be attached to each Trainer.
29.        ANM's. Training will aim at upgrading as well as updating knowledge and skills
to enable ANMs to perform the additional functions expected of them and improve their
performance of current functions. Budgetary provision has been made for training to consist of
1 week courses of mainly classroom- type of learning together with 1 week of practical clinical
attachments.  Details of this training (training needs analysis, curriculum  development,
orientation of trainers) needs to be developed.
30.        Special nursing areas. It is estimated that a combined total of approximately 100
nurses will have to be trained in the special nursing areas of: (a) operation theater/central
sterilization; (b) emergency; (c) obstetrics & neonatal paediatrics; (d) blood bank; and (e)
intensive care units. It is not realistic to establish in-house training within APVVP for this
purpose, and therefore selected nurses will have to be sent to institutions within the country that
are providing such training. Budgetary provision has been made for this purpose. During Year
1 of the project, it will be necessary to identify suitable training locations, and establish a
systematic program for this training.
31.        Curriculum develoDment and Training of Trainers. A preliminary review of training
needs for general nurses has been done by APVVP. The BSc nurses who will be recruited as
Trainers have had training in educational technology during their own basic training.
32.        APVVP will need to involve the prospective Trainers in conducting a more
comprehensive training needs assessment and curriculum development exercise. Since the
prospective nursing Trainers will be recruited only during year 1 of the Project, a core group
of 2-3 selected individuals, will be invited to participate as observers in the exercise, and be
subsequently required to replicate the process with their own colleagues.   As soon as the
Nursing Trainers are recruited, they will rapidly complete the exercise, and also undergo an
orientation process to update and standardize the training approaches that will be utilized. The
Nursing college in Hyderabad will be invited to coordinate and facilitate this process.
33.        Nursing Training Centers. The implication of the establishment of in-house capacity
for in-service training of nurses is that teaching facilities and residential hostel facilities will be
needed. It is estimated that the teaching facilities that will be created at district hospitals under
this project will be sufficient to accommodate the Nursing component. For hostel facilities, it
is proposed that in year 1, a hostel will be added to a commercial complex that is being
developed by APVVP in Hyderabad, and is nearing completion. A third floor will be added to



- 129 -
Annex 8
Page 7 of 7
the two storey building which has an engineering design capable of taking 4 storeys. It is
proposed that the catering and housekeeping for this hostel will be done through contracted
services through the private sector. 2 Mini-vans will be hired on a contract basis for the training
center. Training equipment and materials will be provided through this project.
Management Trainine
34.       Two types of training will be conducted:
(i) training of nursing managers as part of the management teams of hospitals.
This is described elsewhere.
(ii) training in Ward Management. This will be done in the in-house training
centers of APVVP as 1 week courses for all head nurses and nursing
superintendents. The training needs assessment, curriculum development, and
orientation of Trainers will have to be done in conjunction with the
development of Clinical Training as described in earlier paragraphs.
35.        Formal short courses for medical officers and nurses are estimated to need two week
durations while for other categories the courses are estimated as one week duration. Targets for
numbers to be trained are given in Table 1.
36.       Informal week-end courses are estimated to be conducted once a month at each
district hospital from the second half of year 1 for the entire duration of the project.






- 130 -
Annex 9
Page I of 6
Equipment Norms for APVVP Hospitals
GROUP  SERIAL NO.                               ITEM                            Rs  CH  DH AH
I            I        IMAGING EOUIPMENT
I            1        500mA X-ray system (incl. installation)               850     0    0    1
1            2        300mA X-ray system (incl. installation)               700     0     1    0
1            3        lOOmA X-ray system (incl. installation)               330      1    0    1
I            4        6OmA mobile X-ray system                              150     0     1    1
I            5        Dental X-ray system  (NB. at CH only if dentist there)  60     1    1    1
I            6        Ultrasonic scanner, linear                            300     0    0    1
1            7        Ultrasonic scanner, linear sector                     700     0     1    0
I            8        Ultrasonic scanner, linear sector, upgrade            900     0    0    1
11                    ELECTRO-MEDICAL EOUIPMENT
II           I        ECG machine (12-lead)                                  17      1    2    3
II           2        Cardiac monitor                                        25      0     1    2
II           3        Defibrillator (with recorder)                          65      0     1    2
II           4        Audiometer                                             50      0    0    1
11           5        Phototherapy unit                                      6       0     1    2
11           6        Radiant heater, 4KW                                    6       0     1    1
11           7        Endoscope, fibre-optic                                200      0    0    1
II           8        Operating microscope                                   65      0    0    1
II           9        Cryo Surgery, basic (direct attachment)                5       0    0    1
!1           10       Cryo Surgery, de-luxe                                  8       0     1    1
11           11       Short-wave electro-physiotherapy unit                  20      0     1    1
11           12       Ventilator, adult                                      75      0    0    1
II           13       Anaesthetic m/c (Boyles with FloTec)                  125      0     1    2
11           14       Anaesthetic m/c (Boyles without FloTec)                60      1    1    2
II           15       Pulse Oximeter                                        100      0     1    1
II           16       Opthlamoscope                                          5       0     1    3
11           17       Slitlamp with table                                    21      0     1    1
11           18       Retinoscope                                            3       0     1    1
11           19       Perimeter                                              6       0     i    I
II           20       Emergency resuscitation kit                            20      1    2    3
11          21        Sigmoidoscope, rigid, adult                            2       0     1    1
11           22       Head light (ENT surgeon)                                1      0     1    1
11           23       Pulse air tonometer                                    5       0     1    1
11           24       Acute Medical Care equipment (for 7 DHs only)         250      0    0      1
111                   PNEUMATIC. HYDRAULIC & STERILISATION EOUIPMENT
111           I       Dental unit                                            14      1    1    1
III          2        Dental Chair                                            14      1    1    1
III          3        Aerotor (turbine & compressor)                         21      0     1    1
III          4        Ultrasonic dental scaler                               21      0     1    1
111          5        Dental lab. items eg. bath, motor, lathe etc           20      0    0      1
111          6        Operating table, ordinary                               8      1    2    3
111          7        Operating table, hydraulic                             35       1    2    3
III          8        Autoclave, HP, horizontal                              120     0    2    3



- 131 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
GROUP  SERIAL NO.                               ITEM                            Rs  CH DH AH
III           9        Autoclave, HP, vertical                                30      1    1    2
III          10        Autoclave, electrical, with burners, 2-bin             6       1    1    0
III          11        Shadowless lamp, OT, mobile                            8      2    3    4
III          12        OT lights, ceiling (shadowless)                       45       1    2    3
III          13        Focusing lights, OT (mobile)                           I       1    2    2
III          14        Suction apparatus (high vacuum MTP)                    8       1    2    2
III          15        Suction apparatus, electrical                          5      2    4    15
III          16        Foot suction apparatus                                 I       I    1    2
III          17        Vacuum extractor                                       2       1    1    2
III          18        Steriliser, instrument                                 3       5    10   25
III          19        Diathermy machine (electro-surgery)                    12     0      1    2
III          20        Cautery set, electric (Gynae)                          I       1    2    2
III          21        Automist (OT fumigator)                                5       1    2    3
IV                     LABORATORY EOUIPMENT
IV            I        Microscope, binocular with lamp                        9       1    3    5
IV            2        Chemical balance, analytical/optical                   6       0     1    1
IV            3        Simple balance                                         1       1    1    1
IV            4        Photo-electric colorimeter                             8       1    1    2
IV            5        Flame photometer                                       18      0     1    1
IV            6        Spectrophotometer                                      22      0    0      1
IV            7        Micro Pippette                                         5       0     1    1
IV            9        Water bath                                             3       1    1    2
IV           10        Hot air oven, 2 levels                                 8       1    1    1
IV           11        Incubator, laboratory                                  8       0     1    1
IV           12        Water still, 4 litres                                  3       0     1    1
IV           13        Centrifuge (electrical)                                4       1    2    3
IV           14        Centrifuge (haematocrit)                               8       0     1    2
IV           15        Hot plate, laboratory                                  2       0     1    1
IV           16        Rotor/shaker (laboratory)                              2       0     1    1
IV           17        Counting chamber (haemocytometer) etc                  I       1    2    3
IV           18        pH meter                                               15     0      1    1
IV           19        Glucometer (in OPD)                                    6       1    1    2
IV           20        Haemoglobin meter                                      1       1    2    3
IV           21        Microtome                                              12      0    0     1
IV           22        Oven, wax-embedding                                    8       0    0     1
IV           23        Tissue Processor                                      65       0    0     1
IV           24        Blood-gas analyser (for 7 DHs only)                   450     0    0      1
IV           25        Lovibond comparator                                    1      0      1    1
IV           26        Timer stopwatch                                       0.7      1    1    2
IV           27        Alarm clock (timer)                                   0.4      1    1    2
T                     TRANSPORT
T            I        Ambulance                                             350      1    1    2
T            2        Pick-up                                               300      0     1    1



- 132
Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
GROUP   SERIAL NO.                             ITEM                           Rs    CH   DH   AH
REFRIGERTION & A/C.
V            I        Refrigerator, 165 litres                             10      2    5    8
V            2        Refrigerator, 300 litres                             20      0    1    2
V            3        Air conditioner, with stabiliser                     28      1    5    8
V            4        Water cooler, 60/120 litres                          15      1    2    3
V            5        2-body mortuary (cold store)                         130     1    2    3
VI                    HOSPITAL PLANT
VI           I        Generator, 15 KVA (incl. installation)               150     1    0    0
VI           2        Generator, 50 KVA (incl. installation)               200     0    1    0
VI           3        Generator, 62.5 KVA (incl. installation)             250     0    0    1
VI           4        Incinerator, 3KW                                     50      0    1    0
VI           5        Incinerator, 5KW                                     70      0    0    1
VI           6        Hot water system (solar units, 100 litres)           20       1    1    3
V'l                   ADMINISTRATION
VII           I       Typewriter                                            5       1    3    4
VII           2       Photocopier                                           80      0    0    1
Vil           3       Roneo mi/c                                            20      0    0    1
ViI           4       Intercom (15 lines)                                   80      0    1    0
VII           5       Intercom (40 lines)                                  200      0    0    1
VII           6       Fax machine                                           30      0    0    1
VII           7       Telephone (external lines incl. quarters)             11      2    6    12
vII           8       Library facilities                                    5      0    0    1
1                    FURNISHINGS                                          IL.   CH   DH   AH
I            I       Examination table                                    1400    5    15   30
1           2        Labour table                                         1250    2    4    6
1            3       Foot steps                                           600     5    15   30
1           4        Beside screen with curtains                          500    10   20   40
1           5        Revolving stool                                      250     6    20   40
1           6        Saline stand                                         850    10   25   50
1           7        Wheel chair                                          1500    2    4    12
1           8        Emergency/recovery trolley                           5500     1    2    4
1           9        Stretcher on trolley                                 2900    2    4    12
1           10       Oxygen cylinder stand/trolley                        300      3    8    16
I           111      Height measuring stand                               600      1    2    4
1           12       Arm board, child & adult                             200    20   40   60
1           13       Jar, Cheatle forceps                                 300      4    10   20
1           14       Patella hammer                                       100      2    4    8
1           15       Tongue depressor                                      30      6    12   20
1           16       Oxygen masks, with regulator                         130      2    4    8
1           17       Torch light                                           50      2    8    12
1           18       Fowler's cot                                         5200    0    2    4
1           19       Iron cot                                             1250    30   100  250
1           20       Side rails                                           300      2    4    10



- 133 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
GROUP   SERIAL NO.                             ITEM                            Rs    CH   DH   AH
1           21       Baby cot                                              1800    4    6    12
1           22       Beside locker                                         1250    30   100  250
1           23        Dressing trolley                                     1650    2    4    12
1           24       Mayo's trolley                                        900      1    2    4
1           25       Surgical instrument cabinet                           4250    2    4    8
1           26       Medicine cabinet                                      2000     1    4    10
1           27       Instrument trolley                                    1600    2    4    8
1           28       Linen trolley                                         1100    2    4    8
1           29       Kick bucket                                           550      4    8    16
1           30       Bucket, galvanised                                    120      4    8    20
1           31       Bed pans & urinals                                    150      4    8    20
1           32       Attendent stool                                       250    30   100  250
1           33       Traction system, Bohler-Braun                         500      1    4    8
1           34        Post-mortem table                                    4000     1    1    1
1           35       Wash basin                                            400     10   20   40
1           36       Instrument/Medicine tray with cover                   500      4    12   24
1           37       Bowls, various                                        100    24   48   100
1           38       Kidney dishes, various                                 80      8    20   40
1           39       Chair (doctors, nurses etc)                           450    12   24   50
1           40       Racks, various (patient charts, records etc)          250      6    24   48
1           41       Table, wooden                                         1600    10   20   40
42       Steel cupboard                                       2000    4    12   36
1           43       Swab rack (OT)                                        800      1    2    4
1           44        Fracture table (POP)                                 6600    0    1    2
1           45       Table, blood donor, 6'x6'x6', wooden                  4000     1    2    4
1           46       Mattress                                              1200    30   100  250
47       Pillow                                                100    30   100  250
1           48       Wooden bench                                          2500    10   40   100
2                     SURGICAL INSTRUMENT PACKS                             ,L     CH   DH   AH
2            1        Dilitation & Curettage                               1200    3    6    6
2            2        Medical Termination of Pregnancy                     1100     1    2    4
2            3        Cervical biopsy                                      700      1    2    4
2            4        Evacuation                                           550      2    4    8
2            5        Delivery                                             1000    4    6    10
2            6        Post natal sterilisaiton                             1000    10   12   24
2            7        Episiotomy                                           700      3    6    10
2            8        Venesection                                          800      3    6    12
2            9        Copper coil (IUD) insertion                          400      2    4    6
2            10       General anaesthesia kit (adult & child)              4000    2    4    6
2           11        Caesarean section                                    2000    2    4    8
2            12      Incision & drainage                                   1000    2    4    6
2            13       Vaginal hysterectomy                                 3000     1    2    4
2            14       Abdominal hysterectomy                               5000     1    3    6
2           15        Vagotomy                                             2500    0      1    1
2            16       Appendicectomy                                       2500     1    2    2



- 134 -
Annex 9
Page 5 of 6
GROUP   SERIAL NO.                            ITEM                           Rs    CH   DH   AH
2           17       Hydrocele                                           1200    1    2    2
2           18       Gastro-Jejunal operations                           2500    1    2    2
2           19       Haemorrhoidectomy                                   2700    1    1    1
2           20       Suture removal                                      400      3    6    12
2           21       Suturing tray                                       900      2    4    6
2           22       Lumbar Puncture tray                                450      1    2    2
2           23       Cholecystectomy                                     800     0    1    2
2           24       Thyroid                                             3000    0    1    1
2           25       Catheterisation tray                                 100     3    6    6
2           26       Orthopaedic set, general                           20000    0    0    1
2           27       Inter-Medullary nailing                             1000    0    0    2
2           28       Sterling Punch nailing                              1500    0    0    2
2           29       Dynamic compression plating                         3500    0    0    1
2           30       Amputation set                                      1500    0    0    1
2           31       Dynamic Hip screw fixation                          10500    0    0    1
2           32       Fixation of radius & ulna                           250      0    0    1
2           33       Cataract operation                                  5800    0    4    8
2           34       Needling & cataract evacuation                      6000    0    1    2
2           35       Iridectomy                                          1000    0    1    4
2           36       Iridenclisis                                        2000    0    1    2
2           37       Extra-capslar operation                             2250    0    0    2
2           38       Chalazaon                                           670      0    5    10
2           39       Tarsorraphy (medial or lateral)                      860     0    2    4
2           40       Enucleation (removal of eye ball)                   1000    0    2    4
2           41       Probing of lacrymal passages                        200      0    2    4
2           42       Dacryo-Cysto-Rhinostomy                             350      0    0    2
2           43       Lachcymal sac excision                              350      0    2    4
2           44       Trabeculectomy (anti-glaucoma op.)                  3300    0    2    4
2           45       Pterygium excision                                  860      0    2    4
2           46       Entropion correction                                1250    0    2    4
2           47       Foreign body in cornea                              550      0    4    8
2           48       Foreign body in Anterior Chamber (eye)              1350    0    1    2
2           49       Conjunctival cyst excision                          900      0    2    4
2           50       Ear examination                                     1700    0    1    2
2           51       Mastoidectomy                                       10000    0    0    2
2           52       Micro Ear set eg.Myringo-, Tympano-plasty          23000    0    0    1
2           53       Nasal set eg. SMR, Septo-polype- etc                9800    0    0    1
2           54       Deflected Nasal Septum                              7000    0    0    1
2           55       Rhinoplasty                                         6800    0    0    1
2           56       Adeno-tonsillectomy                                 7500    0    2    4
2           57       Tracheostomy                                        400      5    10   20
2           58       ENT, general                                        1600    0    4    8
2           59       Endo-laryngeal microsurgery                         16500    0    0    1
2           60       Dental instruments kit                              5000    1    1    2



- 135 -
Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
GROUP  SERIAL NO.                                ITEM                             Rs  CH  DH  AH
L0)
3                     MINOR EOUIPMENT                                         R.    CH   DH   AH
3             1       X-ray viewing box, (av.Rs.1,2 & 4 films)               1500     2    6    10
3            2        Developing tanks (X-ray), various sizes                 750      1    2    3
3            3        Safelight, X-ray darkroom                               250      1    2    3
3            4        Cassettes, X-ray, various                               400     4    12   32
3            5        Intensifying screen, various                           2000     4    12   32
3            6        Lead apron                                             2600      1    2    4
3            7        Lead protection screen                                 7500      1    1    2
3            8        Chest stand, X-ray                                      900      1    1    2
3            9        B.P. machine                  ,                         500     6    12   24
3            10       Weighing scale, adult                                   600     2    4    12
3            11       Weighing scale, infant                                  600      1    2    4
3            12       Infra-red lamp (Physiotherapy)                          400     2    4    6
3            13       Oxygen cylinder                                        2800    10   20   40
3            14       Nitrous oxide cylinder                                 2800     5    20   40
3            15       Regulator & flowmeter for medical gas                  1500     3    8    16
3            16       Ambu-bag                                                600     4    8    16
3            17       Angle-poise lamp                                        500     0    2    4
3            18       Hot plate, domestic                                    1200      1    3    6
3            19       Emergency lamp                                         1000     4    8    16
3            20       Sewing machine                                         1300     0    0    2
3            21       Fire extinguishers (various types)                     1500     2    4    8
3            22       Laryngoscope (adult & paediatric)                       600     2    2    4
3            23       Otoscope                                                400     0      1    2
3            24       Universal bone drill                                   1200     0      1    2



- 136 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 12
Eguipment Maintenance & Training Services at APVVP Hospitals
General Policy
1 .       APVVP has adopted a policy for development and provision of equipment technical
support services, particularly those addressing the widespread problem of lack of adequate
maintenance and repair (M&R). The approach proposed is realistic and practical, and aims to
provide the basic services required mainly through in-house resources. This will involve active
participation by equipment users as well as trained maintenance staff. Explicitly it is stated that
"The primary responsibility for preventive and routine maintenance and fault localization shall
be with the concerned hospital employee operating the equipment and/or in charge of the same".
2.         A start has already been made by setting up the 'Equipment Maintenance &
Training Centre' (EMTC) based at King Koti Hospital in Hyderabad as a focal point for such
activities. The EMTC is charged with several training responsibilities viz. "to impart initial,
follow up and refresher training programmes to various hospital employees in preventive and
routine maintenance of hospital equipment"
3.        Considering the equipment maintenance policy adopted by APVVP and the revised
equipping norms for the Community, Area and District hospitals, the broad guidelines given in
Table 1 indicate what technologies might be serviced by the different options open to APVVP.
These options include full in-house coverage, first line maintenance only by in-house staff, and
frully contracted out services. More sophisticated technical services will continue to be purchased
from equipment manufacturers and suppliers, or from private sector providers, although the need
for such services will be subject to on-going review as in-house capabilities grow. It should be
borne in mind that any contracted work also has to be 'managed' effectively and often this
requires good technical knowledge on the part of the in-house manager to ensure quality and
value for money from contractors.
4.        Clearly the outreach technical support which can be provided from EMI'C in
Hyderabad to hospitals throughout the State is limited, and therefore the concept of a regional
and district network of maintenance resources has been developed. An analysis on how this
might be best achieved (bearing in mind cost-effectiveness and efficiency ) has been undertaken
with the responsible APVVP bio-engineer and his group.  The plan in the current Project
Proposal is to strengthen EMTC in all its roles (service, training and advice), and to create two
additional 'zonal' workshops in other parts of the State. The two locations suggested are: at
Eluru District Hospital in West Godavari to cover the east and north-east of the State; and at
Cuddapah District Hospital in Cuddapah to cover the south. (See 'Organisational Chart of
APVVP State-Wide Hospital Equipment Maintenance Service' below).



- 137 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 12
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF APVVP
STATE-WIDE HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICE
APVVP
rL- -___ - --------
EMTC
1 -___----------r            -    -------               r--------  1  _
: DCHS (Zone A)                     DCHS (ZoneB)                   : DCHS (Zone C)
L-- -- -T--- - ---------                -         -T -   ----  --     -     ----T- - ---
ZONE A                           ZONE B                            ZONE C
WORKSHOP                         WORKSHOP                          WORKSHOP
Note 1:      The District Coordinators of Hospital Services (DCHS) deal with general management,
administration, financial control and coordination of M&R services in their respective zones
under overall direction of APVVP/HQ. (Dotted lines above indicate general management)
Note 2:      EMTC will be a maintenance resource centre providing technical back up services to the other
zonal workshops in addition to its parallel role in developing and providing technical training for
M&R personnel and equipment user cadres.



- 138 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 12
Table 1: Maintenance Arranzements
First-line maintenance by in-house technical staff   Minor attention by in-house staff (contract-out
locally)
500 mA X-ray system                              Tables (various)
300 mA X-ray system                              Beds (various)
100 mA X-ray system                              Foot steps
Chest stand, X-ray                               Beside screen
60mA mobile X-ray system                        ,Stools (various)
Dental X-ray system                              Saline stand
Ultrasonic scanner, linear                       Wheel chair
U/sonic scanner, linear sector                   Emergency/recovery trolley
Defibrillator (with recorder)                    Stretcher on trolley
Endoscope, fibre-optic                           Oxygen cylinder stand/trolley
Operating microscope                             Height measuring stand
Ventilator, adult                                Cots (various)
Emergency resuscitation kit                      Bedside locker
acute Medical Care system                        Trolleys (various)
Dental Chair                                     Cabinets (various)
Aerotor (turbine & compressor)                   Traction system
Ultrasonic dental scaler                         Chairs (various)
Dental lab.: bath, motor etc                     Racks (various)
Operating table, hydraulic                       Steel cupboard
pH meter                                         Wooden bench
Glucometer
Blood-gas analyser
Generators (various)
Incinerators
Hot water systems (solar)
Gas regulators & flowmeters
Sewing machine
Fully contracted out services
Anaes. m/c (with FloTec)
Anaes. mlc (without FloTec)
Pulse Oximeter
Oxygen cylinder
Nitrous oxide cylinder
Ambulance
Hearse
Pick-up
Typewriter
Photocopier
Roneo m/c
Intercoms
Fax machine
Telephones
Fire extinguishers



- 139 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 12
Table 1 (cont'd)
Full maintenance and repair by in-house technical staff
ECG machine (12-lead)                           Incubator, laboratory
Cardiac monitor                                 Water still
Audiometer                                      Centrifuge (electrical)
Phototherapy unit                               Centrifuge (haematocrit)
Radiant heater                                  Hot plate, laboratory
Cryo Surgery systems                            Rotor/shaker (laboratory)
S-W electro-physio unit                         Haemocytometer
Opthlamoscope                                    Haemoglobin meter
Slitlamp with table                             Microtome
Retinoscope                                     Oven, wax-embedding
Perimeter                                       Tissue Processor
Sigmoidoscope, rigid, adult                      Lovibond comparator
Pulse air tonometer                             Refrigerators (various)
Dental unit                                     Air conditioner w/stabilizer
Operating table, ordinary                        Water cooler, 60/120 litres
Autoclave HP (various)                          2-body mortuary (cold store)
Shadowless lamp, OT, mobile                     Oxygen masks, with regulator
OT lights, ceiling (shadowless)                 Torch light
Focusing lights, OT (mobile)                    Surgical instruments
Suction m/c (high vacuum MTP)                   X-ray viewing box
Suction appararus, electrical                    Developing tanks (various)
Foot suction apparatus                          Safelight, X-ray darkroom
Vacuum extractor                                Cassettes, X-ray, various
Steriliser, instrument                           Intensifying screen, various
Electro-surgery machine                          Lead protection screen
Cautery set, electric (Gynae)                    B.P. machine
Automist (OT fumigator)                         Weighing scale, adult
Microscope, binocular                           Weighing scale, infant
Chemical balance, analytical                    Infra-red lamp (Physiotherapy)
Simple balance                                  Ambu-bag
Photo-electric colorimeter                      Angle-poise lamp
Flame photometer                                Hot plate, domestic
Spectrophotometer                               Emergency lamp
Micro Pippette                                   Laryngoscope (adult & child)
Water bath                                      Otoscope
Hot air ovens                                   Universal bone drill



- 14,0 - 
Annex 10
Page 5 of 12
5.        There is justifiable concern about the capacity of EMTC in Hyderabad to provide
good coverage in the north-west since travelling times (by road) from Hyderabad can be up to
ten hours to some locations.  For this reason it is now recommended that a third 'zonal
workshop' be established at the District Hospital in Karimnagar. Table 2 indicates how
responsibilities for general M&R service coverage might be shared.
Table 2: Proposed Responsibilities for M&R Services
M&R SERVICE WORKSHOP               *       DISTRICTS SERVED
EMTC, at Hyderabad                     Hyderabad           Ranga Reddy
Medak               Nalgonda
Mahboobnagar        Guntur
Zone A: at Eluru District Hospital     Srikakulum          Vizianagaram
Visakapatnam        East Godavari
West Godavari       Krishna
Zone B  at Cuddapah District Hospital    Prakasham         Nellore
Cuddapah            Chittoor
Anantapur           Kurnool
Zone C  at Karimnagar District Hospital   Nizamabad        Warangal
Karimnagar          Adilabad
Khamman
6.        Most of the skill development for maintenance personnel will be acquired by on-the-
job methods under good technical supervision in an appropriately equipped workshop facility
such as EMTC and the proposed Zonal M&R units which will be strengthened and established
under the Secondary Health Care Development Program. The detailed requirements for these
facilities are attached and the associated costs have been incorporated into the project budget
proposed for IDA support.
7.        In addition to training of maintenance personnel EMTC can play a significant role
in the training of equipment users and in orienting health service managers to their
responsibilities for looking after the systems in their charge. There is much scope for improving
training of both maintenance personnel and equipment users and a start has already been made
in this area by EMTC as shown in Table 3 below. In addition, higher level technical training
where appropriate and specialized M&R services can be provided under contract from the
manufacturers or their agents and perhaps also from suitable educational or training institutions
in the State (or country) such as the Bio-engineering Department at Osmania University in
Hyderabad.



- 141 -
Annex 10
Page 6 of 12
Table 3: Training Program
TRAINING PROGRAM                 BATCHES         PARTICIPANTS
Radiographers                               5                 77
Electrician / Mechanics                     1                 18
Dietitians / MSWs                           1                 18
UNICEF: Training on stabiliser Repairs      3                 38
Background of EMTC
8.        Prior to 1987, equipment maintenance services for hospitals throughout the State were
provided by the 'Health Equipment Repairs Organization' of the AP State Medical & Health
Department. This organization operated a Regional Workshop at Nacharam in Hyderabad and had eight
mobile workshop units based at Hyderabad, Warangal, Cuddapah, Guntur, Rajahmundry and
Visakhapatnam.
9.        After the formation of APVVP in 1987, the Regional Workshop at Nacharam was brought
under the control of APVVP. This workshop was staffed by an assistant engineer along with three
helpers, one office superintendent, one LDC, two sweepers and one watchman. The mobile workshops
remained part of the Directorate of Medical & Health Services since they were involved primarily in
supporting EPI cold-chain equipment used in PHC facilities. These latter resources, which include 7
sanctioned posts of junior engineer, are not used very effectively.
10.       The staff initially available in the Hyderabad workshop were not sufficient in number nor
in some cases competent to cope with the demands of up-keep and repairs of the large amount of
medical equipment in the hospitals served. The Assistant Engineer employed was engaged only in the
maintenance of plant and buildings. APVVP decided to establish an in-house repair workshop for
biomedical equipment which would also serve as a Training Centre and develop programmes suitable
for technicians and equipment users in order to improve their skills in operation and maintenance. In
line with this equipment maintenance policy adopted by the APVVP Governing Council, EMTC was
established in July 1989 and located in the old kitchen block of King Koti Hospital. The following staff
have been appointed to the workshop:
* Equipment Maintenance Engineer       1
* Junior Engineer (Bio-Medical)        1
* Foreman (promoted electrician)       1  (added in May 1990)
* Helpers                              2
* Sweeper                              1
* Watchman                             1



- 142 -
Annex 10
Page 7 of 12
The estimated annual expenditure on salaries for these staff for 1992 was Rs 215,000.00
Objectives and Functions of EMTC
11.       Training. EMTC, as part of the APVVP Head Office Organization, provides initial follow
up when equipment is supplied and also refresher training programmes to various cadres of hospital
employees to improve and update their skills in routine operation and care of various hospital
equipment, and its preventive maintenance. The Centre also strives to impart necessary skills and
knowledge to hospital administrators in the better management of equipment under their charge.
12.       Procurement of hospital equipment. The Centre is responsible for technical aspects of
procurement and subsequent commissioning of new and modem equipment. This commences with the
identification of requirements, giving advice on and evaluating the specifications and performance
characteristics, spares, operation instructions, maintenance and repairs manuals, terms of contracts etc.
13.       Maintenance & Repair (M&R) services. The Centre tackles all major and minor repairs
of the following types of equipments:
UCommon ward equipment
X Electro-medical equipment
*Sterilization equipment
*Analytical equipment
* Surgical equipment
H Electrical equipment
In addition, the Centre also undertakes the minor repairs of Imaging and other sophisticated equipment
and/or arranges for the major repairs through the authorized service stations of the manufacturers. (See
Appendix 1 of this Annex 'Facilities Required for Maintenance Developments).
14.       Liaison between APVVP & Equipment Suppliers. The Centre liaises between APVVP and
the suppliers at the time of purchase of new equipment and gives technical advice concerning technical
specifications, performance characteristics of the equipment and terms and conditions of supply etc.
Workshop staff are the members of Expert Committees appointed for procurement activities. They also
contact the servicing firms in connection with urgent and major repairs as and when required by
APVVP hospitals. De facto, EMTC manages the implementation of equipment supply and service
contracts with companies selling such goods and related technical service to APVVP.
15.       Condemnation of obsolete and unserviceable equipment. The Centre assesses the life, utility
and reparability or otherwise of all old and troublesome equipment. When necessary, it recommends
condemnation of any unserviceable or obsolete equipment. For this purpose, a 'Condemnation
Committee' has been formed which issues condemnation notes to the hospitals enabling them to buy



- 143 -
Annex 10
Page 8 of 12
replacements. Useful components from condemned equipment are used for other similar equipment
repairs.
Present Facilities at EMTC
16.       The Centre operates from premises in King Koti Hospital, Hyderabad, comprising:
* Workshop for common ward equipment.
* Demonstration room with equipment models.
* Lecture Hall with audio-visual aids.,(CTV with VCP, OH & projectors etc).
* Workshop for electro-medical equipment.
* Dormitory for 20 participants.
* Indoor recreation facilities for trainees.
* Course materials (as developed for programmes noted in Table 3)
Past Performance of EMTC
17.       From the start of servicing activities in July 1989 until the end of 1992, EMTC records
show that it directly undertook the following work:
Table 4: Work ComDleted by EMTC
Type of work            Nos. of jobs    Contract estimate (Rs) EMTC actuals (Rs)
Major repairs              412                 247,200               82,400
Medium repairs             376                 75,200                18,800
Minor repairs              480                 48,000                12,000
Condemnation               170                   n/a                  n/a
TOTALS:            1438               370,400               113,200
18.       During the same periods, EMTC has provided outreach services to other districts:
*Districts coveredlO
*Repairs on spot86
*Repairs at EMTC93 (equipment transported to EMTC)
ECondemned on spotl56



- 144 -
Amex 10
Page 9 of 12
Proposed Development Plan Under A.P. Health Systems Project
19.       The aim of the Equipment M&R sub-component of the Project is to provide a fully
integrated service with professional Biomedical engineers and technicians for maintenance and repairs
of medical systems.  Given the availability of medical facilities, transportation, distribution of
population, etc, the services will be organized as a three tier system with APWP Headquarters and
EMTC Central Workshop at Hyderabad and a biomedical engineering division based in an appropriately
selected workshop location in each of three geographically zones.  All these divisions ('zonal
workshops') will be linked to and supervised by APVVP/HQ and EMTC. The proposed staffing
patterns of the different facilities and the organizatlonal and managerial structure is shown below.
Table 5: Proposed Staffing Pattern of EMTC
Title                    APWP         EMTC       Each Zone       Total
| __________________ _ |    (HQ)       (KKH H)       (3  total)
Dy. Exec. Engineer        1(-)   |                              1 (-)
(Bio-med.)                        _           _ _
Junior Engineer                         1(1)       1(-)        4 (1)
(Bio-med.)
Technical Instruments                  2 (-)        2 (-)       8 (-)
Supervisor
Technicians (BME)                      4(-)         4(-)        16 (-)
Junior Sanitary Worker                 2 (1)        2(-)        8 (1)
Note: the numbers in brackets indicate the existing filled posts
20.       All the service workshops should have a specific allocation of funds and functional
autonomy.  For transportation and mobile workshop facilities, this network should be
independent of Health Transport unit of Directorate of Health. Undertaking planned preventive
maintenance (PPM) as well as responding to requests for services such as repairs have operating
costs which need planned and secure budgets. Capital provision should also be made in the
initial stage for setting up test facilities and repair facilities for equipment, mobile workshops.
The physical facilities required are summarized in the attached Appendix.



-145 -
Annex 10
Page 10 of 12
Trainin2 in Facilities Mana2ement for Senior Administrators
21.       The proper management of health care facilities is critical to good clinical practice
and the safety of patients and staff. They could also otherwise become an administrative and
financial burden to the health care organization which owns them. Physical assets such as
buildings, plant and equipment represent valuable capital investments. If the right decisions and
actions are not taken at key times in the life-cycle of assets, then opportunities can be lost to
provide, improve and extend the essential health care service to the communities that they serve.
22.       The training programme will address the key issues relating to the management of
physical assets. The trainees will consider the following issues:
* Where are we now in terms of improving the use of physical assets in the lbkh
services?
* Where do we wish to be, and what are the areas of improvement and potential
benefit?
* How do we intend getting there, and what are the most effective means of nig
the desired improvements?
At all times priority will be given to ways of achieving the service improvements
which are at the core of the secondary health care development program.
23.       A total of fifteen hours of tuition will take the trainees from basic concepts in
inventory and asset management, through the appraisal of the needs of their own estate for action
on maintenance, to decision-making concerning implementation of an asset management and
maintenance programme. The following modular structure is proposed:
- Facilities Management: An Overview
- Inventory and Asset Management Concepts
- Asset Management and Maintenance
- Planning and Costing of Maintenance
- Implementing a Maintenance Programme
- Trends in Estate and Asset Management
24.       The training will have a distinctive interactive format and consider the underlyiig
need for structured analysis of existing situations leading to reasoned problem-definition,
objectives-setting, options-appraisal and decision-making. The sustained practice in decision
analysis which this approach will provide for trainees will form a continuing element in the
future management of M&R activities. Case studies based on local situations and circumstances
will feature wherever possible.



- 146 -
Annex 10
Page 11 of 12
Training Programmes for Different Cadres
25.        Following the November 1993 Workshop which revised the equipment norms for
APVVP Community (30-50 bed), Area (75-100 bed) and District (200-350 bed) hospitals, it has
been ensured that all users of technology and plant installed in APVVP facilities will meet their
obligations as spelt out in the policy paper.
26.        This will be accomplished within the project by incorporating appropriate
'technology modules' into the clinical training programmes being planned. A list of what will
be covered by the different cadres is given in Table 6 below.
Advisory Role & Services
27.        Expertise of the equipment management and maintenance department(s) should be
used in planning, extension or renovation of facilities or installation of new plant facilities. This
type of liaison will prevent minor disasters such as procuring obsolete or out-dated systems
which are not serviceable or uneconomic systems which involve high operating cost etc.
Similarly faults due to inadequate radiation protection, load distribution, noise levels of
equipment, electrical supply system stability, non-interrupted power systems, leakage and
subsequent patient safety problems, explosion hazards due to gases etc., could be avoided if
taken care of initially.
28.        The involvement of engineering personnel in the inspection of incoming equipment
may free the health care systems from unnecessary trouble. If the inspection is not an automatic
procedure, short shipments transport damages, insurance claims, or facility performance cannot
be taken care of. Even warranty claims cannot be exploited properly. Long delays in putting
the system into operation may also be difficult to avoid.
Administration & Records
29.        Administrative duties will include maintenance of records on all hospital equipment
from the time of purchase until its ultirnate disposal. The organization should include a library
of technical information manufacturers, literature, users manuals, copies of safety performance
standards, books and periodicals of related interest. The library should have photocopying
facilities. Stores and accounting facilities should be adequate. The stores at the Headquarters
and divisions are to store necessary electronic and electrical spares as well as required hardware.



- 147 -
Annex 10
Page 12 of 12
Appendix: Facilities Required for Maintenance Development
I. Eauipment                                           EMTC/HO Workshop    For 3 Zonal Unuts
1. Electrical tool kits                                         4                     6
2. Mechanic's supplementary kits                                4                     6
3. Electronic Workshop                                           1                    3
4. General Workshop                                              1                    3
5. Materials & components                                        1                    3
6. Refrigeration Service Kit                                     1                    3
7. Technical Literature                                         2                     3
II. Furniture                                                    1                    3
E[I. Service Vehicle                                            2                     3
IV. Space Reouirements for Zonal Workshops                                        Area (m2)
1. Electro-medical equipment workshop with power, water & workbenches                30
2. Heavy/dirty equipment repair shop with 3-phase power, water/sink &
workbenches                                                                       30
3. Engineer office/library/records
4. Secure store for workshop tools, equipment, parts                                  12
5. Engineer & 'junk' storeroom/area (jobs awaiting completion & cannibalisation       12
for parts)                                                                        30
6. Covered 'lean-to' (outside)
7. Corridor/circulation space                                                         12
30



- 148 -
Aimex 11
Page 1 of 6
Stren2thening Referral and Support for Primarv Care
Improving Functioning of Referral
1.           A credible referral system provides patients access to levels of care that are
appropriate to their health needs with a minimum of inconvenience and delay. It also ensures
continuity of care including follow-up and longer term therapy and rehabilitation. Moreover,
it minimizes the use of higher-level facilities when lower level facilities can provide appropriate
care at lower cost. Improving the effectiveness and quality of clinical care in hospitals is an
essential adjunct to a credible referral system. This project will implement several measures to
strengthen the referral system and improve the quality of care in the hospitals. Special attention
will be given to establishing mechanisms to improve access for remote and disadvantaged groups
and tribal communities.
2.           An effective referral system which minimizes by-passing of lower levels of health
care has several features. First, services provided at each level need to be clearly defined.
Second, services have to be of adequate quality to inspire confidence that patients will be treated
in an acceptable, effective and appropriate manner at that level. And third, patients and the
community must have confidence that the need for higher levels of care will be recognized
promptly and provided for efficiently.
3.           In this Project, as described in Annex 4, norms for the range and complexity of
services that will be provided at each tier in the health care system have been clearly defined.
Clinical skills, equipment and support services at each type of second level hospital will be
upgraded and updated in accordance with those norms. The referral system will be improved
by (a) strengthening the management of the referral system; (b) implementing referral protocols
that specify the "what", "when" and "how" of referrals; (c) clinical management protocols that
specify the essential processes of clinical management that should be implemented by staff who
manage common conditions without the direct supervision of relevant specialists; and (d)
establishing an incentive system for users and staff.
4.           Management of the referral system. Agreement has been reached with APVVP
on the activities that will be implemented by APVVP during the first year of the project to
strengthen the management of the referral system. These activities are:
a.    New administrative directives
b.    Systematic dissemination of information about the referral system.
5.           New administrative directives will be issued to all APVVP hospitals that will
specify procedures to be followed in order to make the referral system effective and acceptable
to the community. The directives will provide guidelines for:



- 149 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 6
a.    transportation facilities for the referral of critically ill patients, for transmitting
the results of laboratory investigation results, and for the referral of poor and
disadvantaged patients in remote areas;
b.     avoiding unnecessary delays in the receiving hospital by, for example, publicizing
information on clinic hours, laboratory hours, x-ray hours, giving priority to
referred cases, simplifying admissions procedures etc.;
c.     avoiding unnecessary duplication of tests, radiological examinations etc.;
d.     maintaining registers or records at both the referring hospital and the receiving
hospital. This information will facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of the
referral system in terms of numbers, purpose of referral, destination (or source)
of referral etc.; and finally,
e.     charging for referrals from the private sector (rates, financial procedures etc.)
6.     Systematic dissemination of information about the referral system will be targeted to
personnel in public and private sector health care facilities and to the public. A plan would be
prepared within the first year of the project for both the initial dissemination of information and
for periodic updating. (See also IEC)
7.     The issues that will be considered in developing the information plan are:
a.    target groups, such as APVVP hospitals, PHC  and sub-center staff, tertiary
hospitals, medical colleges,practitioners in the private sector and public sector.
b.     communication media and channels to be used, such as a technical manual,
leaflets, pamphlets, administrative directives, meetings and briefings for medical
staff, community leaders and other health related personnel.
8.    Referral protocols are also being developed as a pre-project activity by working groups
of senior clinical specialists nominated by APVVP. These protocols will specify
a.    types of conditions that should be referred either for investigation or treatment at
higher levels; and
b.     when and how to refer. This will include procedures to be followed before
sending the patient to a higher level hospital i.e. investigations, stabilization etc.;
the situations in which transport arrangements may be requested from APVVP or
other specified sources for critically ill patients, or for patients requiring



- 150 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 6
assistance in obtaining transport; guidelines specifying the essential information
that should accompany the patient, e.g., standardized referral forms, investigation
results, standardized feed-back formats etc. The information should be sufficient
to ensure continuity in patient care, but not be too burdensome on the staff; and
provide timely and adequate feedback on patients referred for investigation, on
patients requiring follow-up management, and simple acknowledgement of
attendance for all patients to enable monitoring of compliance with referral.
c.    counselling and information for tle patient prior to referral. Examples of topics
to be included are: purpose of referral, how the referral will benefit the patient,
location of the referral hospital and when to go, what is likely to happen at the
referral hospital, what will be the cost to the patient and what precautions or
preparations to make before going (e.g. for tests, for operations etc.)
9.    This work is also being coordinated by the Commissionerate, and it is expected that the
protocols will be printed and distributed during the first year of the project.
10.   Clinical management protocols are being developed as a pre-project activity by working
groups of senior clinical specialists nominated by the APVVP. The work is being coordinated
by the Commissionerate. The clinical management protocols are primarily intended to provide
guidelines and standards for management of conmnon conditions by doctors who do not have
post-graduate qualifications in a particular specialty. In particular, the protocols will be
applicable in community hospitals, in various facilities at the primary health care level, and in
other hospitals where the doctor is not working under the direct supervision of a specialist.
11.   Working Groups have been formed for the following specialties: General Medicine;
Obstetrics and Gynecology; Paediatrics; Surgery, Orthopaedics, ENT, Ophthalmology,
Dentistry; Anesthesia; and Diagnostic Specialties (pathology, biochemistry, radiology).
12.   Protocols will be developed for all common conditions (based on epidemiological data)
that are to be managed at community hospitals. Protocols for most of the common conditions
are expected to be printed and distributed during the first year of the project.
13.   An incentive system will be established with differentiated user fees for users and non-
users, allowing patients to by-pass waiting lines when they carry a referral slip and providing
other incentives to staff who honor the system.
ImRroved Technical Support and Coordination with Primary Care
14.   In order to be relevant and provide for the health needs of the community, the secondary
level of health care should have close linkages with the primary care level. First, staff at the



- 151 -
Annex 11
Page 4 of 6
primary level (medical officers, multi-purpose workers, etc.) have a crucial function in
informing the community of the services available at the referral hospitals, and helping patients
to use such services appropriately. Second, there are several programs and services operating
at the primary level under the management of the Departments of Health and Family Welfare,
which would be strengthened through active coordination with the first referral level. Third,
services provided by the hospitals could be augmented by the use of community resources. For
example, emergency transportation and communication could be mobilized through the primary
level programs.
15.   In order to operationalise these concepts, APVVP and the Director of Health will, by the
first year of the project:
a.    establish a District Referral Committee: and
b.    establish training and out-reach activities for primary care facilities.
District Referral Committee
16.   The members of the committee will include:
District Coordinator (chairperson)
District Medical and Health Officer
Medical Superintendents of the Area Hospitals
Deputy District Medical and Health Officers
17.   The functions of the District Referral Committee will include:
a.    Preparing a zoning system. The zoning system will link identified community
hospitals, community health centers and primary health centers with particular
area or district hospitals for the purposes of (a) training and consultant out-reach
visits; (b) as preferred referral sites; and (c) as the source for emergency
ambulance services for critically ill patients;
b.    Monitoring the referral system and identifying and resolving problems.
This will be done by regularly obtaining and assessing data from referral
registers. Also the Committee will actively seek feedback from primary care staff,
hospital staff and the community on problems experienced during referral;
c.    Mobilizing transport for referrals to hospitals. The Committee will liaise with
NGOs and other government agencies to organize procedures to mobilize
transport for patients;



- 152 -
Annex 11
Page 5 of 6
d.    Coordinating programs for technical support. Technical support will include visits
by consultants to community hospitals, community health centers and primary
health centers for the purpose of providing consultant services and on-the-job
training;
e.    Coordinating informal in-service training at referral centers for staff from  lower
levels; and,
f.    Exploring avenues of enhancing the role of hospital consultants in strengthening
primary care programs such as safe motherhood, child survival, etc.
Trainine and out-reach activities
18.   Primary care facilities and community hospitals will be zoned and an identified area or
district hospital will be responsible for providing technical support for each zone.
19.   The referral hospitals will provide technical support through:
a.    dissemination of the Technical Manual to Primary Health Centers(PHC) and
briefings for PHC and Community Hospital (CH) staff on the use of the Manual;
b.    clinical attachments for PHC and CH staff for training in specific clinical skills;
c.    week-end courses;
d.    regular meetings to discuss problems in clinical management;
e.    dissemination of the In-house Journal which is currently being produced by the
APVVP; and
f.    out-reach visits to PHCs and CHs by consultants from APVVP hospitals for
providing on-the-spot consultation for selected cases, and practical demonstrations
of selected management techniques.
20.   The District Coordinator will be responsible for coordinating the outreach visits by
consultants. This will include transport arrangements and a regular schedule of visits by
consultants from different specialties to community hospitals and PHCs.
21.   Training plans and out-reach visit schedules will be presented to the District Referral
Committee for approval and support.
22.   APVVP will prepare Annual Plans for Technical Support and these plans will incorporate



- 153 -
Annex 11
Page 6 of 6
the district plans for training and out-reach visits. It is intended that technical support will be
increased in a phased and incremental fashion.  APVVP will coordinate and monitor
implementation of the plans.



- 154 -
Annex 12
Page I of 5
Oualitv Assurance Program in APVVP Hospitals
Planning the Oualitv Assurance (OA) component in the Project
1.        A systematic Quality Assurance (QA) program is essential for monitoring and
ensuring that project inputs of physical resources, manpower, training, and strengthening of
management are actually translated into better quality of care. Such a system will empower
managers, clinicians and technicians to monitor the quality of care provided by their own
hospitals and assist in instituting rapid remediai measures whenever shortfalls in quality are
detected.
2.        It was agreed with APVVP that a systematic program of Quality Assurance would
be developed to cover aspects of technical (clinical) quality, user satisfaction, and management
of resources. Essential components of such a system, and steps needed to develop it were
discussed with groups of senior clinical specialists and managers from APVVP hospitals.
Working groups were nominated by the APVVP for the development of a QA program.
3.        In-house capacity of hospitals to design and implement appropriate remedial
measures for shortfalls in quality will be developed during the management training program.
4.         QA Working Groups and the Management Training Working Group will prepare
their own implementation plan which will show the activities planned annually during the life
of the project. This implementation plan will take into consideration the activities described in
this annex.
Objectives and Scope of the QA Program
5.        Objective. The objective of the QA program is to continuously improve the quality
of care in APVVP hospitals by instituting on-going monitoring systems for identifying and
investigating shortfalls in quality and implementing remedial measures to address these shortfalls.
6.        Scope. Quality of care has many facets. These include: human aspects of caring,
comfort, courtesy etc.; technical aspects such as effectiveness and safety of care; and managerial
aspects such as utilization of resources, availability of services, timeliness, cleanliness etc. In
order to operationalize a practical program of quality assurance, APVVP hospitals need to
prioritize, select and define the aspects of care that are to be monitored.
7.        Taking into consideration the dearth of local expertise in the field of QA and other
competing demands on resources, APVVP has agreed that the program would initially focus on
a few aspects of quality and services.
8.        Decisions will also be made regarding the phasing of the program so that, as
expertise is required, an increasing range of services and quality can be included in the program.



- 155 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 5
9.         The QA Working Group will make recommendations to APVVP on
which aspects of quality will be initially included. The following list will be considered in
making the selection:
(a)   Technical quality: effectiveness and safety of clinical care in areas of
medicine, paediatrics, surgery, obstetrics, orthopaedics, anaesthesia and
nursing. Examples are: preventable mortality and morbidity such as
unacceptably high rates of hospital case fatality, post operative infection and
complications etc.
Another aspect of technical quality would be accuracy and/or reliability of
laboratory tests and radiology.
(b)   Patient/community satisfaction: in terms of courtesy, caring, comfort and
information.
(c)   Managerial quality: with regard to cleanliness; timeliness of investigations,
and interventions; availability of drugs, tests, non-drug consumables, beds,
staff etc; utilization of resources such as beds, manpower, and materials;
availability, accuracy, and comprehensiveness of records; and down-time of
major items of equipment and services.
10.       The working groups that have been set up will make recommendations on the levels
of services that should be included in the QA program. For example, whether recommendations
on the level of services should include only those related to community hospitals, area hospitals
and district hospitals or all hospitals; and whether it should cover in-patient care, out-patient care
or both.
11.       The working group will make recommendations on the phasing of the QA program.
Recommendations will include aspects that are to be included in each phase, and proposed timing
for the introduction of each phase. As an example, Phase 1 may include technical effectiveness
in medicine, obstetrics and surgery; patient satisfaction;and managerial effectiveness. All these
aspects could be monitored only in District hospitals. Phase 2 may include all aspects in Phase
1 plus technical-effectiveness or timeliness of laboratory tests, nursing care, radiology etc;
patient satisfaction and comfort; and managerial effectiveness in terms of availability of drugs,
utilization of beds etc. All these aspects could be monitored in area and district hospitals. The
QA Steering Committee of APVVP will review the recommendations of the working groups and
finalize the objectives and scope of the QA program.



- 156 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 5
Developing a Suitable Climate of Opinion for OA
12.        "The implementation of QA programs is subject to a variety of types and sources of
resistance ..... it is extremely important that careful thought be given to the strategies and tactics
... to facilitate the development of activities at national, local and institutional levels"
WHO Working Group, 1983
13.       In order to create a climate conducive to the implementation of QA, APVVP will
undertake the following steps: (i) identify opinion leaders from among professional groups such
as doctors, nurses, etc.; from institutional groups such as managers, union leaders etc.; from
managerial groups such as APVVP, district coordinators, etc.; and from the community through
hospital boards, etc.; and (ii) plan a systematic program of consensus-building among opinion
leaders. Suitable activities would include seminars to give information on the benefits and
limitations of QA and include opinion leaders in consultative decision making regarding the
development of the program. Some examples of activities would be to develop or review
indicators, to set standards for quality, or to suggest aspects of quality that should be monitored.
14.       Since consensus-building is a slow and iterative process, it will be necessary to plan
and budget for these activities throughout the life of the project. One-day seminars for this
purpose have been proposed.
P.rogram Planning
15.       It will be necessary to simultaneously develop the organizational structure and the
activities of the QA program. Since quality should be the concern of all service providers in
hospitals, it is recommended that, as far as possible, activities should be implemented by existing
staff in the organization. The development of QA will therefore be a "learning by doing"
process. However, as specialized technical input will be needed, it will be necessary to
designate a local consultant as the technical advisor for the program, and provision will also be
needed for external consultant support for training and program development at crucial stages
of the project.
16.        Organizational arrangements. APVVP will allocate responsibility for QA to the
Joint Commissioner for Training and Referral in APVVP. The Joint Commissioner will:
establish a QA Steering Committee for APVVP to determine phases and approve planned
activities and monitor and evaluate progress; prepare annual action plans for program
development; set up the necessary working groups; monitor the progress of each group; and
coordinate planned activities.
17.       APVVP has nominated a Working Group consisting of clinical specialists and
hospital managers to initiate the activities that are listed in the section on Program Development.
Other working groups will be formed subsequently to further develop the program.



- 157 -
Annex 12
Page 4 of 5
18.        A  local consultant is to be appointed as a Technical Advisor to provide
developmental support. This will include providing technical support to Working Groups that
will develop indicators and set standards (e.g. literature review, advice on validity, sensitivity,
and specificity of indicators etc,.); review suitability of the available data or suggest suitable cost
effective methods of collecting new data; provide training for pilot testing of selected indicators
and data collection methods.
19.        APVVP will identify hospital OA coordinators in each participating hospital who
will be responsible for providing technical support and training for hospital groups performing
the Quality Improvement activities (see below). -
Developmental activities
20.        Ouality Assessment. The first stage of program  clevelopment will establish
procedures for quality assessment. This involves regular periodic monitoring to assess the
quality of selected aspects of care provided in hospitals.  Several activities are needed to
establish such a process in hospitals. QA working group will be responsible for implementing
these steps with technical guidance from the Technical Advisor. Some of the steps may be
initiated prior to project start-up. The early identification and appointment of the Technical
Advisor is essential for program development.
21.        The steps in setting up quality assessment for the selected areas of focus are: (a)
identify suitable indicators for monitoring quality; (b) set acceptable standards; (c) pilot test
methods of data collection e.g. routine records, interviews with patients, set up complaints
mechanism, focus group discussions with selected "clients" e.g. women users, community
leaders, tribal groups etc.; (d) review data that has been collected and review indicators and
proposed standards; (e) establish regular on-going methods of data generation; and (f) establish
procedures for reviewing the data and identifying hospitals which have shortfalls in quality.
22.        Oualitv Improvement (01). Quality improvement activities need to be developed
which can rapidly remedy shortfalls in quality. It will be necessary to develop skills and capacity
within participating hospitals to design and implement such focussed and rapid problem-solving
interventions.  This activity will be integrated with management training. Priority for such
training will be given to the hospital QA coordinators.
23.        Activities of the 01 group. In order to operationalize quality improvement, when a
hospital is identified by the monitoring system as having a shortfall in quality, a QI Group will
be formed among the staff who are responsible for the provision of care in the area which has
a shortfall in quality. With the assistance of the QA Coordinator, the QI group will: (a)
investigate factors contributing to shortfalls in quality; (b) develop strategies for remedying
shortfalls in quality and prepare an implementation plan; (c) submit a report of the investigation
and the implementation plan to the APVVP QA Steering Committee; and (d) implement the plan.



- 158 -
Annex 12
Page 5 of 5
24.       The next cycle of periodic monitoring will demonstrate whether the activities of the
QI group have been successful in improving quality.
25.       In support of the QA strategy, the project will provide training, support materials
such as manuals and guidelines, consultant support, annual workshops and study tours to
"centers of excellence".






- 159 - -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 4
Information. Education and Communication Strategy
Communication Support to Project Objectives
1.        In seeking to improve the status of morbidity, mortality and disability of the
people of Andhra Pradesh, this project's objective is to influence both the health seeking
behavior of beneficiaries and the health dispensing behavior of service providers. Following
would be the specific aspects of behavior that the project will target to influence, in line with
the main objectives of the project.
2.         Narrowing coverage gaps in the provision of health care and providing greater
access to health services. While access and coverage are normally considered to be
dependant on physical distance, there is strong evidence to indicate that service utilization
also depends considerably on mental distance. This refers to the levels of awareness and
comfort that exist in the minds of the beneficiaries - particularly tribals and other
disadvantaged groups - with respect to the institutions and people providing the services.
Reducing such mental distance would be a major requirement for the project to meet its
objectives.
3.        Im=roving system performance and the quality of services. The provision of
additional facilities, equipment and clinical as well as technical training is expected to result
in a significant improvement in the quality of service delivery. In addition, an important
dimension of the service delivery is the sense of "care, courtesy and comfort" that patients
perceive throughout their interaction with the system. In this context, bringing about the
necessary changes in organization and management to substantially affect perceptions of the
quality of service will require a systematic and sustained communication effort within each
health facility.
4.         Improving efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources. Since
resources are currently being used to provide free services to some people who can
contribute to the costs, allocative efficiency will be improved by increasing the APVVP
system's capacity to recover a part of these costs. However, willingness to pay is a function
not merely of ability to pay but also an assessment of what is being paid for. To the extent
that specific groups or services can be identified for cost recovery, communications strategy
can contribute to allocative efficiency by raising willingness to pay.



- 160 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 4
Communications Strategy
5.         Three broad strategies are proposed for the component:
(a) increase awareness of the services provided by APVVP hospitals, particularly
among lower income and disadvantaged groups (such as tribals), and thereby to increase
utilization in a manner appropriate to each level of the system;
(b) motivate all APVVP personnel to continuously practice standards of patient
care such that the quality of services received by patients is enhanced;
(c) promote APVVP's services to specific groups in a manner that increases their
willingness to utilize these services and, where possible, to share in the costs of service
delivery.
6.         The strategy will be developed on the basis of decisions made with regard to:
(a) who do we want to address, that is, identification of target groups; (b) what do we want
to say to them, that is, selection of messages; and (c) what methods should we use to deliver
a specific message to a particular target group, that is, media selection. *The rationale for
each of these categories is as follows:
7.         Target groups. While special groups, such as tribals, will require specific
strategies based on their particular profiles (see separate section on Tribal Strategy), three
segments will need to be included in the target audience for all institutions. First,
government functionaries working at the grass roots level -- anganwadi workers, gram
sevikas, school teachers, agricultural extension workers and multipurpose health workers --
should be targeted for information pertaining to the availability of different types of health
care at different levels within the health care system. These workers are likely to be seen as
opinion leaders by the populations they serve and they can be key information sources in
spreading knowledge about the working of the referral system. Second, women should be
considered as a priority target, since they are managers of the household's health status and
have also demonstrated their capacity as a group to mobilize community response (for
example, the anti-arrack and thrift groups in Andhra Pradesh). Third, patients who enter the
APVVP system should be considered a priority target. Their word-of-mouth based on their
first-hand experience will carry far more weight than any other channel of communication.
The imperative of creating satisfied customers must be recognised for communication
strategy to succeed. Fourth, private practitioners should be targeted because of their
potential role in referring patients, and because they should be aware of the improved
standards of care in APVVP.
8.         Messazes. The content of the messages that comprise the IEC strategy will vary
based on factors such as geography, seasonality and local considerations. For example, a



- 161 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 4
hospital situated near a busy highway may find it necessary to spread awareness about its
trauma unit: similarly, another institution located in a tribal area with high incidence of
tuberculosis may choose to focus on its diagnostic services. In addition to such institution-
specific content, APVVP should build its central strategy on two messages: first, that
APVVP offers a range of services and, secondly, that APVVP cares. It would be useful to
give much greater visibility to the Parishad's logo, since a large proportion of the
beneficiaries are likely to be not literate.
9.        Media selection. The most importanlt medium for the APVVP's communication
strategy is its employees. The manner in which they treat outpatients, visitors and those who
are admitted will have the greatest impact of all the possible channels that may be employed.
It will, therefore, be essential to provide training on communication and education to staff on
patient and visitor handling. Further, training inputs will have to be sustained and
supplemented through periodic internal "campaigns" to remind employees of their role in
delivering quality with courtesy. For the population outside the hospitals, the priority
medium should be functionaries working in health and related sectors, who will be given in-
house tours to enable them to understand the changes that have been instituted within
APVVP hospitals. Other than such word-of-mouth oriented media aimed primarily at
projecting APVVP's caring image and the referral system, the IEC strategy should rely on
periodic waves of printed communication to higher levels in these departments. Finally, the
use of well-designed signs within APVVP hospitals, as well as in PHCs, providing
information on what services are available where, would be an efficient and low-cost
medium.
ImDlementation
10.       Development and implementation of the IEC strategy will require the use of a
professional communications agency. This could be done by APVVP employing the services
of one of the full-service national agencies located in Hyderabad. The agency would be
required to obtain a thorough understanding of the health system in AP and APVVP's role
and objectives before being asked to proceed with the IEC component. The Joint
Commissioner for Training, Referral, M&E and IEC, to be recruited in a newly created
position, will have overall responsibility for IEC activities. The Deputy Commissioner for
M&E and IEC, who is also to be recruited under the project, will be responsible for
coordinating implementation arrangements of IEC activities at the district, area and
community levels.
11.       APVVP would ensure that at each hospital one person would be identified for
providing local inputs and implementing programs. For District Hospitals and Area
Hospitals, this responsibility would lie with the RMO, and for Community Hospitals it could
be the responsibility of the MO in charge. The agency that will develop the IEC component
will be required to conduct orientation programs for the key staff who will be coordinating



- 162 -
Annex 13
Page 4 of 4
the implementation and supervision of the activities. A plan for communication training
should be developed and incorporated into the management training program.
12.       Using the office of the District Collector (Project Officer, in the case of tribal
areas), in-house tours would be provided to groups of functionaries so that the working of
the referral system and the range of services available are understood. The District
Coordinator would also deploy staff selectively to monthly meetings of other departments at
the block or project (in the case of ICDS) level to explain the services and the system.
13.       Timing. It is of utmost importance that communication activities be commenced
only after the physical premises, equipment upgradation and manpower development steps
have been completed. Prematurely initiated IEC activities can be extremely counter
productive.



- 163 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 6
Tribal Strate2
Introduction
1.        According to the 1991 census, almost 4.2 million people in Andhra Pradesh (AP)
(6.3 % of the population) are tribals. While one-third of this population is considered to be living
in conditions similar to the standards of the mainstream, the others -- well over 2.5 million --
inhabit hilly and forest areas in remote and difficult terrain.
Health Status and Epidemiology of Tribal Population
2.        Several studies, conducted by the Tribal Cultural Research and Training Institute
under the Tribal Welfare Department of the Government of AP, have documented the result of
the deprivation suffered by this population. While maternal mortality among tribals is only
slightly higher than the average for the state (4.4 compared to 4), in extreme cases such as the
Chenchu tribe, a 1993 report found maternal mortality to be as high as 7, primarily because of
tetanus. A 1992 study on the Chenchus found the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) to be 215 per
1000 during the year of enquiry. Crude Death Rates for tribes such as the Savaras (15 per
1000), Gadabas (17.5 per 1000) and Jatapus (19.5 per 1000) are much higher than the 9.9 per
1000 average for the state.
3.        A recent analysis of patient registers at PHCs has shown that the common diseases
for which treatment was sought by tribal adults were respiratory infections (TB and bronchitis),
fevers (malaria was reported at epidemic proportions in most Integrated Tribal Development
Agencies), alimentary diseases (peptic ulcers, hyperacidity and dysentery) and aches and pains.
The same analysis also showed that for children, the common ailments were gastro-enteritis
(diarrhoea), respiratory infection, fevers, scabies and skin infections.
Government Response to Tribal Problems
4.         In AP, efforts to alleviate the conditions of tribals go back to the early part of this
century. In 1917, areas inhabited by the tribals were declared as "scheduled" or "agency" areas
and non-tribals were barred from purchasing land in such zones. Subsequently, in the Fifth Five
Year plan, areas abutting the scheduled areas, where the tribal population was more than 50%,
were declared as Tribal Subplan Areas and the Integrated Tribal Development Approach (ITDA)
was begun. A few omissions were constituted as the Modified Area Development Approach
(MADA) in the Sixth Five Year plan, whereby scattered areas with a minimum population of
10,000, at least 50% of which was tribal, were incorporated into the government's overall tribal
policy. Finally, 17 clusters were started in 1989. These clusters have a population of at least
5,000, with a tribal concentration of at least 50%.



- 164 - -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 6
5.         The special focus on tribal populations is administered by the Office of the
Commissioner, Tribal Welfare, through eight Integrated Tribal Development Agencies (ITDAs)
in the following districts: Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Vishakapatnam, East Godavari, West
Godavari, Khammam, Warangal and Adilabad. Each ITDA is headed by a Project Officer (PO),
normally an officer from the IAS, who is also designated as Joint Collector and Additional
District Magistrate. The District Collector is the Chairman of the ITDA in his district. A
government order has given the PO single line control over several departments: health,
community development, agriculture, horticulture, soil conservation and minor irrigation.
Resources for tribal welfare activities are obtained from a compulsory proportion of each
department's budget as well as from special GOI funds.
6.         Another important feature of the response in AP is the Girijan Cooperative
Corporation Ltd. (GCC), a state government undertaking established in 1956 primarily for
supplying items of daily requirements and procuring and marketing forest produce brought in
by the tribals. The GCC is an apex cooperative for 43 primary cooperative marketing societies
and works closely with the ITDAs. Its track record, reach and credibility with tribal groups
make it a potentially important dissemination point for IEC material aimed at influencing the
health seeking behavior of tribals.
7.         Recognizing that part of the reason for the current weakness in the health delivery
system in tribal areas is caused by the unwillingness of medical personnel to serve in those
areas, GOAP has also constituted the Tribal Medical Service. More than 500 Multipurpose
Workers and some Medical Officers have been recruited into this service and will receive special
benefits for serving continuously for a period of 5 years in a tribal area. This cadre of medical
personnel should become available within the next 2-3 years.
Key Determinants of Tribal Health Seeking Behavior
8.         A Beneficiary/Social Assessment Study was undertaken by the Administrative Staff
College of India (ASCI) on behalf of the Government of India (GOI) as part of project
preparation. Its objectives were to: (i) undertake a social context analysis to establish the current
distribution of and access to health care facilities in rural and tribal areas; (ii) conduct an
institutional analysis to understand the supply factors which adversely affect health care
utilization; and (iii) assess the perceptions and attitudes related to health needs and health seeking
behavior of tribal populations. The report concluded that there were three key issues which
determined the health seeking behavior of tribal people.
9.         Physical Access. Clearly, publicly provided hospital services are inadequate in rural
and tribal areas. The private and voluntary sectors have a significant presence in AP. However,
more than 80% of private health facilities are located in urban areas, indicating that the access
to private sector institutional care is much less in interior areas. In emergency situations
requiring hospitalization, access to the beds provided by the Primary Health Centers (PHCs) and



- 165 -
Annex 14
Page 3 of 6
Community Health Centers (CHCs) would be critical for tribal people. When access to these
beds was studied, the bed/population ratio dropped significantly from the state average of 0.41
per 1,000 to 0.18 per 1000 in rural and tribal areas. This is well below the norm of one bed per
1,000 suggested by the Seventh Five Year Plan.
10.        Moreover, no additional budgetary provision is available for the supply of drugs and
diet for patients admitted at PHCs, and PHC staff are required to handle such cases within the
resources available to them. This creates resentment and has a significant adverse impact on the
quality of care provided, which in turn negatively influences the utilization of PHC facilities.
Medical staff in tribal PHCs are in any case resentful of their situation, and doctor absenteeism
is a significant problem in tribal areas.
11.        Another physical access issue is the average distance travelled by urban and rural
populations in order to reach a health care facility. In urban areas, about 55% of sampled
patients lived within 1 km. of a health care facility and only 0.78% needed to travel more than
10 kms. In rural areas, however, only 35% of sampled patients lived within 1 km. of a health
care facility and almost 20% needed to travel more than 10 kms. This would undoubtedly have
an impact on rural health seeking behavior since it would mean not only the loss of wages for
an entire day (perhaps more), but also increased cost in terms of transportation, food, lodging
etc. For women, the distance would be particularly burdensome, since they would have to make
arrangements for child care as well as for a travel companion for themselves when going so far
from their native village.
12.        Social Access. Preliminary results from the qualitative survey conducted by ASCI
indicate that tribals have a special set of social beliefs and practices which affect their health
seeking behavior. For instance, tribals consider themselves to be ill only when they are incapable
of performing their daily duties, and it is only then that they consider seeking medical attention.
Most illnesses are first referred to local traditional healers for diagnosis and treatment. These
traditional healers not only share a common set of beliefs with their patients, but are also easily
accessible and affordable.
13.        Most illnesses are attributed to supernatural causes and the prescribed treatment
involves performing rituals to appease these supernatural beings. In addition, a variety of herbal
medicines are also used to relieve pain, stress and other secondary symptoms. The tribals contact
providers of modern medicine only when they do not get relief from the traditional treatment,
as a last resort, or if they contract an illness which has no traditional remedy. Significantly, the
three diseases for which the tribals routinely give preference to allopathic care are all subjects
of national vertical programs: TB, malaria and diahhroea.
14.        Other reasons for the under utilization of public sector health facilities include:
inconvenient working hours of the health care institutions; lack of in-patient care during
emergencies; impersonal and detached behavior of the primary health care providers;



- 166 -
Annex 14
Page 4 of 6
unfamiliarity of the health care providers with tribal customs, leading to negative experiences
for tribal patients; and belief that the health staff give the same medicines for all diseases, since
most medicines are similar in physical appearance.
15.        Economic Access. The data show that substantial costs - on fees, drugs, tests and
transport - are being incurred by tribals possibly because they postpone seeking treatment until
the problem has become very acute. When the households utilizing health facilities were
classified into 10 fractile groups based on monthly per capita expenditure, it was evident that
irrespective of per capita expenditure levels, the households in Andhra Pradesh were spending
more or less equal amounts on health care. This would imply a regressive spending structure
which acts as a disproportionate burden on tribals, the majority of whom belong to the lowest
expenditure fractiles.
16.       Moreover, the cost of private care, for both hospitalized and non-hospitalized illness
episodes, ranges between 2 and 10 times the cost of care at public sector facilities. Due to these
cost considerations, 62% of Scheduled Tribe (ST) households used public sector health facilities
for hospitalization episodes as compared to only 33 % of other social groups; and with regard
to ambulatory care, the proportion of households that utilized public sector health facilities was
higher among the STs and SCs (35% and 31 % respectively) as compared to other social groups
(14%). It is, therefore, imperative for the government to institute some policy changes which
would reduce the costs to the tribals of utilizing public sector health facilities.
Tribal Strategy and Project Activities in Supnort of the Tribal Strategir
17.       Tribal people are expected to be a substantial project beneficiary group. The
Beneficiary/Social Assessment Study identified, through surveys, the health care needs of tribal
communities and constraints in the provision of these needs. Based on the findings of the study,
a strategy has been recommended for delivering adequate and quality health care to members
of these communities. The project strategy for tribal development is aimed at increasing the
demand for hospital services in tribal areas by improving the quality of services and providing
effective IEC to better inform the tribal population of the benefits of using health services at
secondary hospitals. Following are the project activities in support of this tribal strategy:
(i) increasing the bed strength in tribal hospitals: The project will increase the
total number of upgraded beds in tribal areas from 270 to 560 -- an addition
of 290 beds, at 3 area and 6 community hospitals. This will considerably
improve tribal access to hospital-based services.
(ii) strengthening linkages between primary and secondary health care
services: The available evidence points to an urgent need for establishing
linkages with primary health care services where tribal health needs are acute.
It is necessary to strengthen linkages between the secondary and primary



- 167 -
Annex 14
Page 5 of 6
health systems, particularly with respect to the referral of tribal patients, by
improving the design and reach of primary care services such that they can
function effectively as first referral institutions. This would mean improving
the quality of service and effectiveness and efficiency of service delivery at
primary health care facilities by (a) increasing the awareness and sensitivity
of medical staff, through appropriate IEC, to tribal customs and culture; and
(b) providing some curative services along with preventive and promotive
services at PHCs. This would be done by organizing "outreach camps" where
CHC doctors, in coordination with PHC staff, would provide on-site specialist
services. CHC doctors would be reimbursed for such outreach work through
the APVVP budget.
(iii) increasing incentives to medical staff in tribal areas: Staff would be
provided with incentives to increase their committment to the tribal areas with
the construction of an additional 42 Type II, 31 Type III and 23 Type IV
new staff quarters for all medical staff in tribal hospitals. Moreover, other
benefits will also be offered, such as giving preference to the children of
doctors in tribal areas for admission at government-run residential schools and
for places in schools for scheduled tribes and scheduled castes. Extra
weightage will also be given to doctors and other staff for PG qualification
admission and for fellowships; and they will have enhanced opportunities for
transfer to an urban area after 4-5 years. Doctors hired directly into the newly
constituted Tribal Health Service in AP would have their appointments
formalized into regular government service after 4-5 years of service in tribal
areas. This would encourage doctors and staff to work in tribal areas and
provide quality services. This, in turn, will increase the credibility of the
health care system for the tribal patients and encourage them to approach the
health care facilities more readily when necessary.
(iv) increasing the appropriate utilization of the non-tribal medical system by
the tribal population: Since health seeking behavior in this population is
biased towards curative rather than preventive action (see Para. 12), an IEC
program targetted particularly at increasing tribal awareness of disease is
needed. IEC would also need to increase the appropriate utilization of health
services by tribals. It would incorporate the following ideas: (a) focussed
communication aimed at the tribal practitioner to improve his skills at
diagnosing ailments such as malaria and diahhroea and developing him as a
referral point. Tribal practitioners would also be used as opinion leaders and
would be given special incentives, such as free use of paying wards, for
referring tribal patients to the PHC; (b) using shandies (tribal markets) to
register the presence of the non-tribal medical system by, for instance,
conducting screening and for promoting the need for early recognition of



- 168 -
Annex 14
Page 6 of 6
ailments; (c) group visits to primary and secondary facilities by tribal leaders
and women to build familiarity as well as to sensitize staff; and (d) use of the
800 Daily Requirement Depots of the GCC to stimulate word-of-mouth about
the primary and referral systems.
(v)  reducing the cost to tribals of utilizing the system: The analysis clearly
shows that tribals are bearing a disproportionate burden of health care costs,
and at the least, the very poorest (category 1 in the fractile tables) must be
exempted from user charges, particularly for drugs and tests, which constitute
the major share of expenditures incurred at public sector health facilities.
Reduction in the cost burden to tribals will also be attempted by providing a
rest area on or close to the health center premises for the attendants
accompanying the patient and by promoting the Transport Reimbursement
Fund available with each ITDA Project Officer. Where possible, APVVP will
also coordinate with local NGOs to provide transportation and/or food to
tribal patients and attendants.



- 169 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 17
Summary of Construction Program
DISTRICT
DISTRICT                HOSPITAL           AREA HOSPITAL                  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL
D.H.     A.H.    M.CH.   Rs.           C.H.    M.CH.    W&C    PAED          Total
Maty H.                        Maly
H
SRIKAKULAM                  1        2        0        0           6        0          0       0         9
VIZLNAGARAM         I      I        I        1        0           2        0          0       0         5
VISAKAPATNAM               0         2        0        0           3        0          0       0         5
EASTGODAVARI                1        3        0        0           3        0          0       0         7
WESTGODAVARI         11     1        2        0        0           5        0          0       0         8
KRISHNA                     1        2       0         0           4        0          0       0         7
GUNTUR                      1        2        0        0           5        0          0       0         8
PRAKASAM             inI    1        2       0         0           2        1          0       0         6
NELLORE                     I        2        0        1           0        0          0       1         5
CHITTOOR                    1        2        0        0           5        0          0       0         8
CUDDAPAH                    1        2        0        0           2        0          0       0         5
IV
ANANTAPUR                   1        3        0        0           7        0          0       0         11
KURNOOL                     I        1        0        0           2        0          1       0         5
MAHBOOBNAGAR                1        2       0         0           2        0          0       0         5
RANGAREDDY           V      1        1       0         0           3        0          0       0         5
HYDERABAD                   1        3       0         0           1        1          0       0         6
MEDAK                       1        2       0         0           5        1          0       0         9
NIZAMABAD                   1        3        0        0           1        0          0       0         5
VT
ADILABAD                    1        2       0         0           5        1          0       0         9
KARIMNAGAR                 I         I       0         0           3        0          0       0         5
WARANGAL                   0         2       0         0           2        0          0       0         4
KHAMMAM              vii   1         2       0         0           2        0          0       0         5
NALGONDA                    1        3       0         0           4        0          0       0         8
21       47       1         1          74       4          1        1        150



- 170 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 17
LIST OF DISTRICT, AREA AND COMMUNITY HOSPITALS SELECTED FOR RENOVATION AND EXTENSION
SL.     CODE        HOSPITAL NAME
NO.                  AND PLACE                                              B E D S
AVAILABLE        ADDL. REQD.          TOTAL         POPULATION    REMARKS
UPGRADED           (LOCAL)
SRIKAKULAM   TOTAL POP.: 2321126
1.      101         D.H. SRIKAKULAM                                   230               20              250               88684   N.H.5;RLY.LINE
2.      102         A.H. PALAKONDA                                     30               70              100               24327   ITDA HQRS 13KM
3.      103         C. H. PATHAPATNAM                                  30               20               50               57304   TRIBAL
4.       104        C.H. NARASANNAPET                                  30               20               50               20120   N.H.
5.      105         A.H. TEKKALI                                       30               70              100               20830
6.      106         C.H. PALASA                                        30               20               50               15580   N.H.; RLY.LINE
7.      107         C.H. ITCHAPURAM                                    30                0               30               29645
8.      108         C.H. BARUVA                                        30                0               30
9.      109         C.H. SOMPETA                                       30                0               30               15783   RLY M LINE
TOTAL:                    470              220              690              272273
VIZIANAGARAM   TOTAL POP.: 2110943
10.     201         D.H. VIZIANAGARAM                                 100              100             200)              160433
I.     205         M.CH. VIZIANAGARAM                                 50               50             100)
12.     202         A.H. PARVATIPURAM                                  30               70              100               43483   ITDA HQRS:TRIB
13.     203         C.H. S. KOTA                                       30               20               50
14.     204         C.H. GAJAPATINAGARAM                               30                0               30               51623
TOTA L:                   240              240              480              190231
VISAKHAPATNAM   TOTAL POP.: 3285092
15.     301         D.H. NARSIPATNAM                                   30               70              100               84362   N.H.5;RLY.LINE
16.     302         A.H. ANAKAPALLI                                    32               68              100               29051   FLOOD PRONE
17,     303         C.H. ARAKU                                         30               20               50               41360   TRIBAL
18.     304         C.H. PADERU                                        30               20               50               44875   TRIBAL
19.     305         C.H. AGANAMPUDI (T)                                10               40               50
TOTA L:                   132              218              350              199648
EAST GODAVARI TOTAL POP.: 4541222
20.     401         D.H. RAJAHMUNDRY                                  250                0              250              358327
21.     402         A.H. AMALAPURAM                                    70               30              100               45969   FLOOD PRONE
22.     403         C.H. RAZOLE                                        30               20               50               11973   FLOOD PRONE
23.     404         A.H. RAMCHANDRAPURAM                               44               56              100               36769
24.     405         C.IH. KOTHAPET                                     30               20               50               73868   FLOOD PRONE
25.     406         C.H. PRATHIPADU                                    30                0               30               68734
26.     407         A.H. RAMPACHODAVARAM                               30               70              100                7844   TRIBAL;FLOOD PR
484              196              680              603484
TOTAL:



- 171 -
Annex 15
Page 3 of 17
SL.     CODE        HOSPITAL NAME
NO.                  AND PLACE                                             BE D S
AVAILABLE       ADDL. REQD.          TOTAL         POPULATION    REMARKS
UPGRADED           (LOCAL)
WEST GODAVARI TOTAL POP: 3517568
27.     501         D.H. ELURU                                      340               10              350              212918
28.     502         C.H. KOVVUR                                       52              -2               50               36064   FLOOD PRONE
29.     503         A.H. TANUKU                                      70               30              100               62377   N.H.5;FLOOD PR.
30.     504         C.H. NARSAPUR                                    30               20               50               56358   FLOOD PRONE
31.     505         C.H. PALACOLE                                    30               20               50               56972   FLOOD PRONE
32.     506         A.H. TADEPALLIGUDEM                              30               70              100               38979   N.H.5;RLY.LINE
33.     507         C.H. CHINTALAPUDI                                30                0               30               76359
34.     508         C.H. BHIMAVARAM (T)                              30               20               50               74266   RLY LINE;FLD.PR.
TOTAL:                   612              168              780              590527
KRISHNA TOTAL POP.: 3698833
35.     601         D.H. MACHALIPATNAM                              338               12              350              159007
36.     602         C.H. AVANIGADDA                                  50                0               50               21700   CYCLONE PRONE
37.     603         C.H. NANDIGAMA                                   50                0               50               30059   N.H.;ACCIDENT
38.     604         A.H. NUZIVEEDU                                   30               70              100               42629
39.     605         C.H. THIRUVURU                                   50                0               50               24907
40.     606         A.H. GUDIVADA                                    100               0              100              101635   RLY. L LINE
41.     607         C.H. MYLAVARAM                                    30               0               30               52417
T O T A L                648               82              730              432354
GUNTUR TOTAL POP.: 4106999
42.     701         D.H. TENALI                                      100             100              200              143836
43.     702         C.H. REPALLE                                     30                0               30               36940
44,     703         A.H. BAPATLA                                     67               33              100               62688   RLY M. LINE
45.     704         A.H. NARASARAOPET                                50               50              100               88766   IRR.PROJECT;NH
46.     705         C.H. MACHERLA                                    30                0               30               44022   NAT.CALAMITIES
47.     706         C.H. SATrENA PALLI                               36               14               50               45400
48.     707         C.H. CHILKALURIPETA                               0               30               30
49.     708         C.H. AMRAVATHI                                    0               30               30
TOTAL:                   313              257              570
PRAKASAM TOTAL POP.: 2759166
50.     801         D.H. ONGOLE                                      150              50             200)              128128   N.H.5;RLY LINE
51.     806         M.CH. ONGOLE                                     30               20              50)
52.     802        C.H. KANIGIRI                                     50                0               50               21128
53.     803         A.H. CHIRALA                                     100               0               100             108359   RLY.M.LINE
54.     804         C.H. GIDDALURU                                   30               20               50               23494
55.     805         A.H. MARKAPUR                                    30               70              100               45358
TOTAL:                   390              160              550              326467



- 172 -
Annex 15
Page 4 of 17
SL.      CODE       HOSPITAL NAME
NO.                   AND PLACE                                               B E D S
AVAILABLE        ADDL. REQD.           TOTAL         POPULATION        REMARKS
UPGRADED           (LOCAL)
NELLORE TOTAL POP.: 2392260
56.     901         D.H. NELLORE                                       250                 0             2501              316445
57,     902         RS.MTY.HL. NELLORE                                  90                10              1001
58.      903         R.S.PEAD.HL. NELLORE                               30                20              50)
59.      905        A.H. GUDUR                                          75                25               100              55962   N.H.5;RLY LINE
60.      906         A.H. KAVALI                                        60                40               100              65804   N.H.5:RLY UNE
T O T A L:                505                95              600               438211
WFTB. & CD.HL. NELLORE 264- TO BE TRANSFERRED TO DIRECTOR OF HEALTH
CHITTOOR  TOTAL POP.: 3261118
61.      1001       D.H. CHITTOOR                                      270                30              300               133233
62.      1002       C.H. KUPPAM                                         30                 0               30                15879
63.      1003       C.H. PUNGANUR                                       30                20               50               33863
64.      1004       A.H. MADANAPALLI                                    82                18               100              73729
65.      1005       A.H. SRI KALAHASTI                                  32                68               100              61575
66.      1006       C.H. VAYALPADU                                      30                 0               30               41891
67.      1007       C.H. SATYAVEEDU                                     30                20               50               45664
68.      1008       C.H. PILER                                          30                20               50               48607   PILGRIM CENTRE
TOTAL:                     534              176              710               454441
CUDDAPAH  TOTAL POP.: 2267769
69.      1101       D.H. CUDDAPAH                                      352                -2              350              215545
70.      1102       C.H. RAYACHOTI                                      30                20               50                51273
71.      1103       A.H. PULIVENDULA                                    34                66               100               28267
72.      1104       A.H. PRODDATUR                                      47                53               100              133860
73.      1105       C.H. RAJAMPET                                       32                18               50               26133
TOTA L:                   495               155              650               455078
ANANTHAPUR  TOTAL POP.: 3183814
74.      1201       D.H. ANANTAPUR                                     350                 0              350               174792
75.      1203       C.H. RAYADURG                                       30                 0               30                40833
76.      1204       C.H. GOOTY                                          36                14               50                37789   RLY.M LINE
77.      1205       A.H. KADIRI                                         62                38              100               71043
78.      1206       C.H. PENUKONDA                                      30                 0               30                17012
79.      1207       A.H. HINDUPUR                                      100                 0              100               104635
80.      1208       C.H. DHARMAVARAM                                    37                13               50               78747   RLY.UNE;PIL.CEN.
81.      1209       C.H. TADIPATRI                                      30                 0               30               71043
82.      1210       A.H. GUNTAKAL                                       30                70              100               107560   RLY. LINE
83.      1211       C.H. URAVAKONDA                                     30                 0               30               37789
84.      1212       C.H. MADAKASIRA                                     30                20               50               65984
TOTAL:                    765               155              920               807227



- 173 -
Annex 15
Page 5 of 17
SL.     CODE        HOSPITAL NAME
NO.                  AND PLACE                                               B E D S
AVAILABLE        ADDL. REQD.          TOTAL         POPULATION    REMARKS
UPGRADED           (LOCAL)
C.D HL. ANANTAPUR 60 - TO BE TRANSFERRED TO DIRECTOR OF HEALTH
KURNOOL TOTAL POP.: 2973024
85.      1301       D.H  NANDYALA                                     100              100              200               120171   SUB-DIVL. HQRS.
86.      1302       C.H. BANAGANAPALLI                                 50                0               50               21278
87.      1303       A.H. ADONI                                         50               50              1001             135718
88.      1304       M.CH. ADONI                                        46                4              50)
89.      1306       A.H. YEMMIGANOOR                                   30               20               50               65118
T O T A L                 276              174              450              342285
B. CAMP DISPENSARY, KURNOOL TO BE HANDED OVER TO DIRECTOR OF HEALTH
MAHABOOBNAGAR  TOTAL POP :3077050
90.      1401       D.H. MAHABOOB NAGAR                               235               15              250              116775
91.      1402       A.H. GADWAL                                        40               60              100               40784
92.      1403       C.H. KALVAKURTHY                                   30               20               50               50542
93.      1404       A.H. NARAYANA PET                                  30               70              100               38434
94.     1405        C.H. SHADNAGAR                                     30               20               50
TOTAL:                    365              185              550              246535
RANGA REDDY  TOTAL POP.: 2551966
95.      1501       D.H. TANDUR                                        36              164              200               45369
96.      1502       C.H. MARPALLI                                      30                0               30               41231
97.      1503       C.H. VIKARABAD (n                                  30               20               50               39215
98.      1504       C.H. GHATKESAR CT)                                 30               20               50               12645
99.      1505       A.H. VANASTHALIPURAM(T)                            10               90              100
TOTAL:                    136              294              430              138460
HYDERABAD  TOTAL POP.: 3145939
100.    1601        D.H. KING KOTI                                    100              100              200                        (STATE CAPITAL)
101     1602        A.H. NAMPALLY                                      80               20              100
102.    1603        A H. MALAK PET                                    100                0              100
103.    1604        A.H. GOLKONDA                                     105               -5              100
104.    1605        M.CH.SBBB. SHALIBANDA                              50                0               50
105.    1606        CL. DISP. KARVAN                                    0                -                0
106.    1607        CL. DISP. DUD BOWL]                                 0                -                0
107.    1608        CL. DISP. ALIYA BAD                                 0                                 0
108.    1609        CL. DISP. PANJASHAH                                 0                -                0
109.    1610        CL. DISP. MYSARAM                                   0                -                0
110.    1611        CL. DISP. MALAK PETA                                0                -                0
Ill.    1612        CL. DISP. KHAIRATABAD                               0                -                0
112.    1613        CL. DISP. SECRETARIAT                               0                -                0
113.    1614        CL. DISP. PANJAGUTTA                                0                -                0
114.    1615        CL. DISP. GARIB NAGAR                               0                -                0



- 174 -
Annex 15
Page 6 of 17
SL.     CODE        HOSPITAL NAME
NO,                   AND PLACE                                               B E D S
AVAILABLE        ADDL. REQD.           TOTAL          POPULATION       REMARKS
UPGRADED           (LOCAL)
115.     1616       CL. DISP. SANATNAGAR                                 0                 -                0
116.    1617        CL. DISP. MUSHEERABAD                                0                 -                0
117.    1618        CL. DISP. KAAMATI PURA                               0                 -                0
118.    1619        CL. DISP. HIGH COURT                                 0                 -                0
119.     1620       CL. DISP. BHAG AMBER PET                             0                 -                0
120.    1621        CL. DISP. DYD.DIV.WARDIO                             0                 -                0
121.    1622        CL. DISP. SEC.DIV.2-5&8                              0                 -                0
122.    1623        CL. DISP. SEC.DIV.WARDIO                             0                 -                0
123.    1624        CL. DISP. HYD.WARD 14                                0                 -                0
124.    1625        CL. DISP. HYD.WARD 17                                0                                  0
125.    1626        CL. DISP. PURANAPOOL                                 0                 -                0
126.    1627        CL. DISP. JUBLEE HILLS                               0                 -                0
127.    1628        C.H. BARKAS                                         30                20               50
TOTAL:                    465               135               600             3145939
MEDAK TOTAL POP: 2269800
128.    1701        D.H. SANGA REDDY                                   220                30              250               50098
129.    1702        C.H. NARAYAN KHED                                   30                 -               30                8600
130.    1703        C.H. A. JOGI PETA                                   36                14               50               20744
131.    1704        A.H. MEDAK                                          32                68              100               35756   NArL HIGHWAY 7
132.    1705        C.H. NARSAPUR                                       60                40             100)               54020
133.    1709        M.CH. SIDDIPET                                       0                50              501
134.     1706       C.H. NARSAPUR                                       30                 -               30               39323
135.    1707        C.H. GAJWEL                                         30                20               50               55603
136.    1708        C.H. ZAHEERABAD                                     30                20               50               39590   NArL HIGHWAY 9
T O T A L:                468               242               710              303734
NIZAMABAD  TOTAL POP.: 2037621
137.    1801        D.H. NIZAMABAD                                     302               48               350              240924
138.    1802        A.H. KAMA REDDY                                     30               70               100               48641
139.    1803        C.H. YELLA REDDY                                    30                 0               30               39473
140.    1804        A.H. BANSWADA                                       40                60              100                19094
141.    1805        A.H. BHODAN                                         50                50              100               64386
TOTAL:                    452               228               680              412518
ADILABAD TOTAL POP.: 2082479
142.    1901        D.H. ADILABAD                                      230               20               250               84233
143.    1902        C.H. SIRPUR                                         30                0                30                8518
144.    1903        C.H. KHANAPUR                                       30               20                50               47007
145.    1904        C.H. NIRMAL                                         40                10               50                5777
146.    1909        M.CH. NIRMAL                                         0               50                50                5m
147.    1905        A.H. BHAINSA                                        50               50               100               29664
148.    1906        A.H. MANCHERIAL                                     50               50               100               52626   RLY M UNE



- 175 -
Annex 15
Page 7 of 17
SL.     CODE        HOSPITAL NAME
NO.                   AND PLACE                                               BEDS
AVAILABLE        ADDL. REQD.           TOTAL         POPULATION        REMARKS
UPGRADED           (LOCAL)
149.     1907       C.H. BELLAMPALLI                                    30                0                30               66608
150.    1908        C.H. UTNOOR                                         30               20                50               39999   TRIBAL
TOTAL:                    490               220              710              334432
KARIMNAGAR  TOTAL POP.: 3037486
151.    2001        D.H. KARIMNAGAR                                    257               93               350              148349
152.    2002        C.H. METPALLI                                       30               20                50               31703
153.    2003        A.H. JAGITYAL                                      100                0               100               67965
154.    2004        C.H. PEDDA PALU                                     30               20                50               28234
155.    2005        C.H. MAHADEVAPUR                                    30                0                30               31241   TRIBAL
TOTAL:                    447               133              580              307492
WARANGAL TOTAL POP.: 2818832
156.    2101        A.H. JANGAON                                        30               70               100               34276   RLY. M. LINE
157.    2102        A.H, MAHABOOBABAD                                   40               60               100               28674
158.    2103        C.H. NARSAM PET                                     30               20                50               52774
159.    2104        C.H. ETURUNAGARAM                                   30                0                30               31899   TRIBAL
TOTAL:                    130               150              280               147623
KHAMMAM TOTAL POP.: 2215809
160.    2201        D.H. KHAMMAM                                       210               40               250              148646   RLY. M. LINE
161.    2202        C.H. SATTUPALLI                                     30               20                50               20053
162.    2203        C.H. PENU BALLI                                     46                4                50               43741
163.    2204        A.H. KOTHAGUDEM (NWRCF-50)                          30               70               100              102061   INDL. & TRIBAL
164.    2205        A.H. BADRACHALAM (1)                                44               56               100               35830   FLOOD PRONE
TOTAL:                    360               190              550               314501
NALGONDA TOTAL POP.: 2852092
165.    2301        D.H. NALGONDA                                      180               70               250               84674   RLY B LINE
166.    2302        A.H. SURYAPET                                       44               56               100               60563   N.H. 9
167.    2303        C.H. DEVARA KONDA                                   30               20                50               21105
168.    2304        C.H. RAMANNAPETA                                    30               20                50               48710
169.    2305        C.H. HUZURNAGAR                                     30               20                50               49490
170.    2306        A.H. NAGARJUNASAGAR ()                             100                 -              100               20290
171.    2307        A.H. MIRYALGUDA (T)                                 30               70               100               65879   RLY B LINE
172.    2308        C.H. BHONGIR (r)                                    30               20                50               40744   RLY M LINE
TOTAL:                    474               276              750               264542
GRAND  - TOTAL  :451                                        4349             14000



- 176 -
Annex 15
Page 8 of 17
M.CH. HOSPITALS PARTICULARS
BED STRENGTH
SL. NAME AND PLACE                                   PRESENT                    ADDL.REQD.                    TOTAL UPGD.
NO. OF THE HOSPITAL
1. M.CH. NELLORE                                        90                           10                            100
(separate siie from DH)
2. M.CH. VIZIANAGARAM                                   50                           50                            100
(separate site from AH)
3. M.CH. ADONI                                          46                            4                             50
(separate site from AH)
4. M.CH. SHAH-ALI-BANDA                                 50                                                          50
5. M.CH. SIDDIPET                                       0                            50                             50
(separate site from AH)
6. M.CH. ONGOLE                                         0                            50                             50
(separate site from DH)
7. M.CH NIRMAL                                          30                           20                             50
T O T A L:               266                          184                           450
TRIBAL HOSPITALS PARTICULARS
BED STRENGTH
SL.NO.            NAME AND PLACE                   PRESENT                ADDL.REQD.               TOTAL UPGD.
OF THE HOSPITAL
1.        C.H. PATHAPATNAM                          30                       20                       50
2.        A.H. PARVATHIPURAM                        30                       70                       100
3.        C.H. ARAKU                                30                       20                       50
4.        C. H. PADERU                              30                       20                       50
5.        A.H. RAMPACHODAVARAM                      30                       70                      100
6.        C.H. UTNOOR                               30                       20                       50
7.        C.H. MAHADEVPUR                           30                       0                        30
8.        C.H. ETURUNAGARAM                         30                       0                        30
9.        AXH. KOTHAGUDEM                           30                       70                      100
TOTAL:                 270                      290                      560
4 ~ ~       ~                



- 177 -
Annex 15
Page 9 of 17
CATEGORY OF HOSPITALS               HOSPITALS                     TOTAL BEDS
COMMUNITY HOSPITAIS
30 BEDDED                                25                            750
50 BEDDED                                49                            2450
AREA HOSPITA1S
100 BEDDED                               47
4700
DISTIICT HOSPITA1S
200 BEDDED                                6                            1200
250 BEDDED                                8                            2000
300 BEDDED                                I                            300
350 BEDDED                                6                            2100
M.CH. HOSPITALS
50 BEDDED                                5                             250
100 BEDDED                                2                            200
PAEDIATRIC HOSPITAL
50 BEDDED                                 I                             50
CIVIL DISPENSARIES                       22                             0
TOTAL                    172                          14000
ABBREVIATIONS USED:
D.H.  :  DISTRICT HOSPITAL
C.H.  :  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL
A.H.     AREA HOSPITAL
M.CH.    MATERNITY AND CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL
DISP. :  DISPENSARY
)   :  TO BE TRANSFERRED FROM DIRECTORATE OF HEALTH/DME
N.H.  :  NATIONAL HIGHWAY
RLY. :  RAILWAY
PIL.  :  PILGRIM



ANDHRA PRADESH VAIDYA VIDHANA PARISHAD
STAFF QUARTERS AT DISTRICT, AREA AND COMMUNITY HOSPITALS SELECTED FOR UPGRADATION
COST OF                                                                   TYPE OF STAFF
S.              HOSPITAL NAME AND            RENOV OF            COST OF        TOTAL                                       QTRS. (NO.)
NO.    CODE               PLACE             EXISTING QTRS.   ADDL.QTRS.   COST IN                   EXISTING                   RENOV.                ADDL.NEW
RS. MILL          RS. MILL      RS.MILL      I      II   III   IV         I   11  III  IV        I    11  III   IV
SRIKAIKULAM DIST.
I       101    DH Srikaikulanm                  0.000              1.050         1.050      1     2      0     4        0   0   0   0          0    0    4       0
2       102   AH Palakonda                      0.000              1.687         1.687      0     0      0      0        0   0   0   0         0    1    2       4
3       103    CH Pathapatnam                   0.000              3.700         3.700      0     0      0      0        0   0   0   0         0    5    3       2   Tribal
4       104   CH Narasannapet                   0.000              1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0        0   0   0   0         0    2    2       2
5       105   AH Tekali                         0.000              1.687         1.687      0      1     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2       4
6       106   CH Palasa                         0.000              1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2       2
7       107   CH Itchapurun                     0.000              1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2       2
8       108   CH Baruva                         0.027              1.365         1.392      0     1      0      0       0    1   0   0         0    1    2       2
9       109   CH Sompet                         0.000              1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0        0   0   0    0        0    2    2       2                   1
Total                            0.027             17.021        17.048      1     4      0     4        0    1   0   0         0    16   21    20
oo
00
VIZLANAGARAM DIST.
10      201    DH Vizianagaram                   0.046             1.760         1.806      0      1     1      2        0    1   1   2         1    1    3      2
11      202    MCH. Vizianagaram                 0.000             1.687         1.687      0      0     0      0        0   0   0    0         0    1    4      4
12      203    AH Parvathipuram                  0.000             5.650         5.650      0      0     0      0        0   0   0   0          0    6    6      6   Tribal
13      204    CH S. Kota                        0.000             1.883         1.883      0      0     0      0        0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
14      205    CH Gajapathinagaram               0.000             1.883         1.883      0      0     0      0        0   0   0    0         0    2    2      2
Total                            0.046             12.863        12.909      0     1      1     2        0    1   1   2         1    12  17    16
VISAKAPATNAM
15      301    AH Narsipatnam                    0.007             1.687         1.694      0      1     0      0        0    1   0   0         0    0    2      4
16      302    AH Anakapalli                     0.000             1.687         1.687      0      0     0      0        0   0   0    0         0    1    2      4
17      303    CH Araku                          0.000             3.700         3.700      0      0     0      0        0   0   0    0         0    5    3      2   Tribal
18      304    CH Padcru                         0.000             3.700         3.700      0      0     0      0        0   0   0   0          0    5    3      2   Tribal
19      305    CH Adanumpudi ()                  0.000             1.883         1.883      0      1     2      2        0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
Total                            0.007             12.657        12.664      0     2      2     2        0    1   0   0         0    13   12    14
2, 1



COST OF                                                               TYPE OF STAFF
S.             HOSPITAL NAME AND           RENOV OF          COST OF       TOTAL                                    QTRS. (NO.)
NO.   CODE              PLACE            EXISTING QTRS.  ADDL.QTRS.  COST IN                  EXISTING                  RENOV.              ADDL.NEW
RS.MILL          RS.MILL      RS.MILL    I    11   III   IV          I   11  III  IV       I   11  III   IV
E. GODAVARI
20      401   DH Ra*munry                     0.000            0.000        0.000      I     1     4     4        0   0   0 0          0    0    0      0
21      402   AH Analapuarn                   0.000            1.687        1.687      0     0     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    1    2    4
22      403   CH Razole                       0.000            1.8J3        1.SS3      0     0     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
23      404   AH.Ranach ndrnrn                0.000            1.687        1.687      0     0     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    1   2       4
24      405   CHH Koduhxi                     0.000            1.883        1.883      0     0     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
25      406   CH Prathipadu                   0.000            1.8S3        1.883      0     0     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
26      407   AH Ram     hodavn               0.000            5.650        5.650      0     2     2     4        0   0   0   0        0    6    6      6   Tribal
Total                          0.000            14.673       14.673     1    3      6     S        0 0 0   0            0   14   16   20
W Er CODA VARI DIST.
27      501   DH. Eluiu                       0.040            0.347        0.337      1    2      2     2        1   1   2   2        0    0    2      2
28      502   CH KKovuV u                     0.000            1.383        1.333     0      0     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
29      503   AH. Tnuku                       0.000            1.687        1.687      0     0     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    1   2       4
30      504   CH Nwusqr                       0.000            1.8S3        1.S83      0     0     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
31      505   CHPakoIe                        0.000            1.S83        1.883      0     1     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
32      506   AHTaiepaligudcm                 0.000            1.687        1.687      0     0     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    1    2      4
33      507   CH. Chintlapudi                 0.000            1.883        1.883      0     1     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
34      508   CHBhinuvuun(T)                  0.011            1.417        1.428     0      1     0     0        0   1   0   0        0    1   2       2
Total                          13.170           13.170       13.221     1    5      2      2       1   2   2   2        0   11  16   20
KRISHNA DIST.
35      601   DH Maahp bun                    0.000            2.363        2.363     0      0     0     0        0   0  00            1    1    4      4
36      602   CH Avaigadda                    0.004            1.365        1.369     0      1     0     0        0   1   0   0        0    1   2       2
37      603   AHNuzivecdu                     0.035            1.169        1.204      0     1     0     0        0   1   0   0        0    0    2      4
38      604   CHThtinvunz                     0.000            1.8S3        1.333     0      1     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
39      605   AH Gudivada                     0.006            1.169        1.175     0      1     0     0        0   1   0   0        0    0    2      4
40      606   CH Mylavaruu                    0.000            1.883        1.883     0      1     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
41      607   CHNamdigam                      0.026            1.391        1.417     0      1     0     0        0   1   0   0        0    1   2       2
Totl                           0.071            11.723       11.794     0     6     0     0        0   4   0   0        1    7   16   20
-l



COST OF                                                                TYPE OF STAFF
S.              HOSPITAL NAME AND           RENOV OF          COST OF       TOTAL                                     QTRS. (NO.)
NO.   CODE              PLACE             EXISTING QTRS.   ADDL.QTRS.  COST IN                  EXISTING                  RENOV.              ADDL.NEW
RSMILL           RS.MILL      RSMILL   .I    11   III   IV            I   If  III  IV       I    If  HI   IV
GUNTUR DIST
42      701   DH Tcnali                        0.000            2.863        2.863      0     0      0     0        0   0   0   0         1    1    4     4
43      702   CH Rapalle                       0.000             1.883        1.883     0      1     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
44      703   AH Bapatla                       0.000            1.687         1.687     0      1     0     0       0   0   0   0         0    1    2      4
45      704   AH Narsaraopet                   0.000             1.687        1.6S7     0     0      0     0        0   0   0   0        0    1    2      4
46      705   CH Maacerla                      0.000            1.883         1.883     0     0      0     0       0   0   0   0         0    2    2      2
47      706   CH Sattenapaili                  0.000             1.883        1.883     0      1     0     0        0   0   0   0        0    2    2      2
48      707   CH Amravathi                     0.000             1.883        1.883     0     0      0     0       0   0   0   0         0    2    2      2
49      708   CH Chilkaluipeta                 0.000            1.883         1.883     0     0      0     0       0   0   0   0         0    2    2      2
Total                          0.000             15.652       15.652     0     3      0     0       0   0   0   0         1   13   18   22
PRAKASAM                                                                                                                                                               O
50      801    DHOngoIc                        0.015            0.518        0.533      1      1     4     4        1   0   4   4        0    1    0      0
51      802   MCHOngolc                        0.000            1.883         1.883     0      1     0     0       0   0   0   0         0    2    2      2
52      803   CH Kanigiri                      0.010            1.365         1.375     0      1     0     0       0   1   0   0         0    1    2      2
53      804   AHChirala                        0.000            1.169         1.169     0      1     4     0       0   0   0   0         0    0    2      4
54      805   CH Giddaluri                     0.000            0.840        0.840      0      1     0     0       0   0   0   0         0    1    0      0
55      806   AHMarkapur                       0.055            1.169         1.224     0      1     0     0       0   1   0   0         0    0    2      4
Total                          0.080             6.944        7.024      1     6      8     4       1   2   4   4         0    5    8    12
NELLORE DIST.
56      901    DH NcIlore                      0.079            2.345        2.424      0      1     0     0       0    1   0   0        1    0    4      4
57      902   RS MTY HL Nellorc                0.000            1.687         1.687     0     1      0     0       0   0   0   0         0    1    2      4
58      903   RS PAED HL Neliore               0.000            0.000        0.000      0     2      2     2       0   0   0   0         0    0    0      0
59      904   AH Gudur                         0.000            1.687         1.687     0     0      0     0       0   0   0   0         0    1    2      4
60      905   AH Kavali                        0.000            1.687         1.687     0     0      0     0       0   0   0   0         0    1    2      4
Total       0.079             7.406        7.485     0      4     2     2        0    1   0   0        1    3    10    16
ii l
o u



COST OF                                                                  TYPE OF STAFF
S.              HOSPITAL NAME AND            RENOV OF           COST OF       TOTAL                                       QTRS. (NO.)
NO.    CODE              PLACE             EXISTING QTRS.   ADDL.QTRS.  COST IN                    EXISTING                   RENOV.               ADDL.NEW
RS.MILL          RS.MILL       RS.MILL      I     11   III   IV         I   11  III  IV        I    II  III   IV
CHITTOOR DIST.
61      1001   DH Chitoor                       0.000             1.694         1.694      1      1     0      4       0   0   0   0          0    0    4      4
62      1002   CH Kuppamn                       0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0     0        0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
63      1003   CH Punganur                      0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
64      1004   AH Madanapalli                   0.000             0.788         0.788      0      1     1      2       0   0   0   0          0    0    3      0
65      1005   AH Srikalahasthi                 0.000             1.687         1.687      0      1     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    0    2      2
66      1006   CH Vayalpadu                     0.000             1.365         1.365      0      1     1      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    0      2
67      1007   CH Satyaveedu                    0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
68      1008   CH Piler                         0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0     0        0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
Total       0.000             13.066        13.066     1      4     2      6       0   0   0   0          0    9    17    16
CUDDAPAII DIST.
69      1101   DH Cuddapah                      0.000             0.644         0.644      1     5      4     0        0   0   0   0          0    0    0      4
70      1102   CH Rayachoti                     0.000             1.365         1.365      0      1     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2      2                  oo
71      1103   AH Pulivendula                   0.054             1.687         1.741      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2      4
72      1104   AH Proddatur                     0.005             0.745         0.750      0     0      1      1       0    1   1   1         0    0    1      3
73      1105   CH Rajampet                      0.000             0.840         0.840      0     1      2      1       0   0   0   0          0    1    0      2
Total       0.059             5.281         5.340      1      7     7      2       0    1   1   1         0    3    5      15
ANANTHAPUR
74      1201   DH Ananthapur                    0.028             0.000         0.028      1     3      0     6        1   1   4   4          0    0    0      0
75      1202   CH Rayadurg                      0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0     0        0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
76      1203   CH Gooty                         0.010             1.365         1.375      0     1      0     0        0    1   0   0         0    1    2      2
77      1204   AH Kadiri                        0.145             1.169         1.314      0     2      0     0        0   0   0   0          0    0    2      4
78      1205   CH Punukonda                     0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0     0        0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
79      1206   AH Hindupur                      0.000             1.687         1.687      0     0      0     0        0   0   0   0          0    1    2      4
80      1207   CH Dharmavaramn                  0.000             0.000         0.000      0     2      6     7        0   0   0   0          0    0    0      0
81      1208   CHTadipatri                      0.000             1.365         1.365      0     1      0     0        0   0   0   0          0    1    2      2
82      1209   AH Guntakal                      0.000             0.000         0.000      0     2      6     7        0   0   0   0          0    0    0      0
83      1210   CH Uravakonda                    0.000             0.000         0.000      0     2      6     7        0   0   0   0         0    0    0       0
84      1211   CHMadakasira                     0.000             0.518         0.518      0     1      4     2        0   0   0   0         0    1    0       0
Total       0.183             9.870         10.053     1    14    22    29         1   2   4   4          0    8    12    16



COST OF                                                                  TYPE OF STAFF
S.              HOSPITAL NAME AND            RENOV OF           COST OF       TOTAL                                       QTRS. (NO)
NO.    CODE              PLACE             EXISTING QTRS.   ADDL.QTRS.   COST IN                   EXISTING                   RENOV.               ADDL.NEW
RS.MILL          RS. MILL      RS.MILL      I      if   III   IV         I   11  III  IV       I    11  III   IV
KURNOOL DIST.
85      1301   DH Nandyala                      0.055             2.082         2.137      0     2      1      0       0    1   1   0         1    0    3      4
86      1302   CH Banaganapalli                 0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
87      1303   AH Adoni                         0.024             1.169         1.193      0      1     0      0       0    1   0   0         0    0    2      4
88      1304   W&C Mty. HL Adoni                0.110             0.847         0.957      0     2      0      0       0   2   0   0          0    0    2      2
89      1305   CH Yemmiganoor                   0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
Total       0.189              7.864        8.053      0      5     1      0        0   4    1   0        1    4    11    14
MAHABOOBNAGAR
90      1401   DH Mahboobnagar                  0.155             0.000         0.155      1      1     6      6        1   1   4   4         0    0    0      0
91      1402   AH Gadwal                        0.866             0.584         1.450      0     2      1      6       0    1   1   2         0    0    1      0
92      1403   CH Kalvakurithy                  0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
93      1404   AG Narayanapct                   0.000             1.687         1.687      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2      4
94      1405   CG Shadnagar                     0.000             1.365         1.365      0      1     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2      2
Total        1.021             5.519        6.540      1      4     7      12       1   2   5   6         0    4    7      8                    1
RANGA REDDY
95      1501   DHTandur                         0.000             2.863         2.863      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          1    1    4      4
96      1502   CH Vikarabad                     0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
97      1503   CH Marapally                     0.000             1.883         1.883      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
98      1504   CGGhatkesar(T)                   0.014             1.722         1.736      0     0      0      1       0   0   0    I         0    2    2      I
99      1505   AG Vanasthalipurar               0.000             1.687         1.687      0     0      0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2      4
Total       0.014             10.038        10.052     0      0     0      1        0   0   0    1        1    8    12    13
HYDERABAD DIST
100     1601   DH King Koti                     0.166             2.863         3.029      0      0     0      1        0   0   0    1        1    1    4      4
101     1602   AH Namiapally                    0.000              1.694        1.694      0      2     0      2       0   0   0   0          0    0    4      4
102     1603   AH Malakpet                      0.000              1.162        1.162      0      0     2      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    0      4
103     1604   AH Golkonda                      0.000             0.644         0.644      0      I     8      0       0   0   0   0          0    0    0      4
104     1605   Shalibanda                       0.000              1.883        1.883      0         0     0       0    0       0    0     0    0       2    2  2
104     1606   CGSHarkas                        0.000              1.883        1.883      0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
Total       0.166             10.129        10.295     0      3     10     3       0   0   0    1         1    6    12    20
*.



COST OF                                                                 TYPE OF STAFF
S.              HOSPITAL NAME AND           RENOV OF          COST OF        TOTAL                                      QTRS. (NO.)
NO.   CODE               PLACE            EXISTING QTRS.   ADDL.QTRS.  COST IN                   EXISTING                  RENOV.               ADDL.NEW
RS.MILL          RS.MILL       RS.MILL    I      11   111   IV         I   If  111  IV        I    11  III   IV
MEDAK DIST.
106     1701   DH Sangareddy                    0.000            2.863         2.863     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          1    1    4      4
107     1702   CGNarayanKKhed                   0.000            1.883         1.883     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
108     1703   CH A Jogipet                     0.083            1.043         1.126     0      1     0      2       0    1   2   0         0    1    2      0
109     1704   AGMedak                          0.013            1.169         1.182     0      1     0      0       0    1   0   0         0    0    2      4
110     1705   AHSiddipet                      0.021             1.169         1.190     0      0     0      0       0    1   0   0         0    0    2      4
111     1706   CH Narsapur                      0.000            1.883         1.883     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
112     1707   CH Gajwel                        0.000            1.883         1.883     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
113     1708   CHZaheerabad                     0.000            1.883         1.883      0     0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
114     1709   MCH Siddipet                     0.000            1.883         1.883     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
Total       0.117             15.659       15.776     0      2     0      2       0   3   2   0          1   12   20    22
NIZAMABAD DIST.
115     1801   DHNizamabad                      1.274            0.000         1.274      1     1     4      4        1   1   4   4         0    0    0      0                   1
116     1802   AGKarnareddy                     0.177            1.169         1.346     0      3     0      0       0    1   0   0         0    0    2      4
117     1803   CH Yellareddy                    0.000            1.883         1.883     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
118     1804   AHBanswada                       0.000            1.687         1.687     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2      4
119     1805   AH Bhodan                        0.155            0.847         1.002     0      1     0      0       0    1   0   0         0    0    2      2
Total        1.606            5.586         7.192      1     5     4      4       1   3   4   4         0    3    8    12
ADILABAD DIST
120     1901   DH Adilabad                      0.000            2.863         2.863     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          1    1    4      4
121     1902   CH Sirpur                        0.259            1.883         2.142     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
122     1903   CH Khanapur                      0.000            1.883         1.883     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
123     1904   CHNirmal                        0.000             1.169         1.169     0      2     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    0    2      4
124     1905   AH Bhainsa                       0.000            1.687         1.687     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2      4
125     1906   AH Mancheril                     0.000            1.687         1.687     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2      4
126     1907   CH Bellampalli                  0.000             1.883         1.883     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
127     1908   CH Untnoor                       0.012            3.540         3.552     0      0     0      1       0   0   0    1         0    5    3      I   Tribal
128     1909   MCH Nirnal                      0.000             1.883         1.883     0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0         0    2    2       2
Total       0.271             18.478       18.749     0      2     0      1       0   0   0    1        1   16   21    25
_ * #[~I



COST OF                                                                  TYPE OF STAFF
S.              HOSPITAL NAME AND            RENOV OF           COST OF       TOTAL                                       QTRS. (NO.)
NO.    CODE              PLACE             EXISTING QTRS.   ADDL.QTRS.  COST IN                    EXISTING                  RENOV.                ADDL.NEW
RS.MILL           RS.MILL      RS.MILL      I     11   111   IV         I   11  III  IV        I    11  1II   IV
KARIMNAGAR DIST
129     2001   DH Karimnagar                    0.825              0.644        1.469      1      1     3      0        1   1   3   0         0    0    1      4
130     2002   CH Metpaili                      0.000              1.883        1.883      0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
131     2003   AHJagityal                       0.000              1.687        1.687      0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2      2
132     2004   CH Paddapalli                    0.000              1.883        1.883      0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    4    2      2
133     2005   CH Mahadevapur                   0.109             2.597         2.706      0      1     1      2       0    1   1   0         0    1    1      0   Tribal
Total       0.934              8.694        9.628      1      2     4      2        1   2   4   0         0    8    8    10
WARANGAL DIST.
134     2101   AH Jangon                        0.000              1.687        1.687      0      2     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    0    2      4
135     2102   AH Mahaboobabad                  0.089              1.365        1.454      0      0     0      2       0   0   0   2          0    1    2      2
136     2103   CH Narsampet                     0.000             0.847         0.847      0      2     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    0    2      2
137     2104   CH Eturunagaram                  0.000             3.700         3.700      0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    5    3      2   Tribal
Total       0.089             7.599         7.688      0      4     0      2       0   0   0   2          0    6    9      10
KAMMAM DIST                                                                                                                                                                     F
138     2201   DH Khammam                       0.000             2.863         2.863      0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          1    1    4      4                   1
139     2202   CH Sattupalli                    0.000              1.883        1.883      0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
140     2203   CH Penuballi                     0.000             0.322         0.322      0      2     2      0       0   0   0   0          0    0    0      2
141     2204   AH Kothagudem (NWRCF)            0.077             3.180         3.257      0      2     3      4       0    1   2   2         0    4    3      2   Tribal
142     2205   AH Badracham (T)                 0.000              1.169        1.169      0      2     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    0    2      4
Total       0.077             9.417         9.494      0      6     5      4       0    1   2   2         1    7    11    14
NALGONDA DIST
143     2301   DH Nalgonda                       0.185             0.000        0.185      0      2     8      6        1   1   4   4         0    0    0      0
144     2302   AH Suryapct                      0.599              1.169        1.768      0      1     0      2       0    1   0   0         0    0    2      4
145     2303   CH Devarakonda                   0.367              1.883        2.250      0      0     2      0       0   0   2   0          0    2    2      2
146     2304   CH Ramnannapet                    0.000             1.883        1.883      0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
147     2305   CH Huzumagar                     0.000              1.883        1.883      0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    2    2      2
148     2306   AH Nagaijunasagar (T)            0.242              0.000        0.242      0      2     12    6        0    1   2   4         0    0    0      0
149     2307   AH Miryalguda (T)                 0.000             1.687        1.687      0      0     0      0       0   0   0   0          0    1    2      4
150     2308   AHBhongir(T)                     0.099             0.511         0.610      0      1     2      2       0    1   2   2         0    1    0      0
Total        1.492            9.016         10.508     0     6    24    16         1   4   10  10         0    8    10    14
GRAND TOTAL                                   6.579            248.325      254.904      10    94   105   106                               10  190  288    359
ii
-1



SUMMARY OF STAFF OUARTERS UPGRADAllON
EXUSTINQ                               RENOVATION                       NEW                          TAL
10
Type I Suprt               8        Type I Supitd.Qtrs.          10
94                              Type 11 Medi               32       Type 11 Medical             190
Officer                             Officer
(148 Sqm)
105                             Type III Nur               38        Type III Nurses            288
& Class III                         & Class III
(75 Sqm)
106                             Type IV Class              38        Type IV Class IV           359
(46 sqm)
315                                                        116                                   847
I-
-         A






- 186 -
AnneiL 16
Page I of II
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(Total Costs in USS Million)
Procurement Method
Intemational    Local
Competitive   Competitive              Force    Consulting
Bidding      Bidding   Shopping al  Account    Services   Other  /a  Total  b/
WORKS
Civil Works                                     -           63.59        -          2.12         -         707        70.66
(54.05)                (1.80)                 (6.01)      (60.06)
GOODS
Vehicles                                       1.82           -         0.10         -           -          -          1.92
(1 60)                   (0.08)                                        (1.69)
Fumiture                                        -            1.88       0.63         -           -          -          2.51
(1.69)     (0.56)                                        (2.26)
Equipment                                      6.00         4.59        2.65         -           -          -         13.23
(5.28)       (4.04)     (2.33)                                         (11.65)
Medical Lab Supplies                            -           0.77        0.78         -           -          -          1.55
(0.70)     (0.70)                                        (1.39)
Medicines                                       -           5.83        1.46         -           -          -          7.29
(5.25)     (1.31)                                        (6.56)
Other Supplies                                  -            1.62       2.43         -           -          -         4.04
(1.46)     (2.18)                                        (3.64)
MIS/lEC Materials                               -           0.85        0.28         -           -          -          1.13
(0.76)     (0.25)                                         (I 02)
CONSULTANCIES
Project Prep & Implementation Support           -             -          -           -           -         1.31        1.31
(Includes Local Training Services, Workshops)                                                             (1.31)      (1.31)
Institutional Development (includes             -             -          -                     8.00         -          8.00
Local Consultants, Studies)                                                                   (8.00)                  (8.00)
MISCELLANEOUS
Fellowships                                            -            -                -           -         0.20       0.20
(0.20)     (0.20)
Salaries of Additional Staff                           -                 -           -           -        33.04       33.04
(24.62)    (24.62)
Operational Expenditures                               -                 -           -           -         6.95       6.95
(5.18)     (5.18)
Building Maintenance                            -             -           -          -           -         2.18       2.18
(1.56)     (1.56)
Equipment Maintenance                           -             -           -          -           -         4.90       4.90
(3.65)     (3.65)
TOTAL                                          7.82         79.13       8.31        2.12       8.00       53.52       158.90
(6.88)       (67.95)     (7.42)     (1.80)      (8.00)     (40.95)    (133.00)
NOTES
Note: Figures in Parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
a/ Shopping includes Local Shopping and Intemational Shopping procedures



- 187 -
Pag 2 of 11
Estimated Value of Procurements by Project Year
(In $US Million)
Total                               ProJec Project ProJt Projec ectProet    ct
Project          Procurement           t    YearI Yea     Yeu     Yea   Yei Project
Vale              Method             Year  Year   Year   Yea    Yea    Year   Year
(US$                Mdb                 1      2       3       4       5       6       7
Civil Works                    56.5    LCB (80%) /a                 2.64   5.42    11.12   19.87   14.51    2.96     -
3.5     Force Account (5%)          0.17   0.34    0.69    1.24    0.91    0.19
10.6    Other local methods (20%)   0.50   1.02    2.08    3.73    2.72    0.56
Vehicls                        18       ICB (95%)  /a               0.09   0.54 ] 0.91  j 0.28               -
0.1     Local Shopping 15 %)        0.00   0.03 1 0.05      002      -       -
Funiture                       1.9     LCB(75%) /b                |0.09   0.18  j 0.37  J 0.66 | 0.48    0.10 |
0.6     LocalShopping(25%)         |0.03| 0.06    0.12    0.22  | 0.16    0.03T
Equspert                       7.9    ICB (60%) Ia                  0.75    1.54    2.37    1.62    1.65    =       =
2.7     LCB (20%) /b                0.25   0.52    0.79    0.54    0.55
0.7    Intermational Shopping (5%)  0.06   0.13    0.20    0.13    0.14
2.0     Local Shopping (15%)        0.19   0.39    0.59    0.40    0.41              _
Medical Lab Suppli             0.8     LCB(50%) /b                  0.07   0.11    0.11    0.12    0.12     0.12    0.12
0.1    International Shopping (7%)  0.01   0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02     0.02    0.02
0.7     Loca Shopping(43%)          0.06   0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.11
Med_tn|  5.8                           LCB (80%) /b                 0.54   0.83  | 085    0.87    0.89    0.91    0.93
0.4    International Shopping (6%)  0.04   0.06    0.06     0.07    0 07    0.07    0.07
1.0    Locai Shopping (14%)         0.09   0.15    0.15    0.15    0.16    0.16    0.16
Coinsuasablea                  1.6   | LCB (40%)                    0.15   0.23    0.24    0.24    0.25    0.25    0.26
2.4   1 Local Shopping (60%)        0.23   0.35    0.36    0.36 | 0.37    0.38  | 0.39
MlS/EC Materatls               09      LCB(75%)                    0.02   0.05    010    014    0.18    0.18    019
0.3     Local Shopping (25%)        0.01   0.02    0.03    0.05    0.06    0.06    0.06
Lo1TrainigSrevkces            1.3     DirectContracting(100%)      0.12   0.25    0.26    0.26    0.20    0.21      -
Consultas, Stmdies, Workshops    8.0   Consulting Services (100%)   0.37   0.80    1 .56    2.66    2.01    0.52    0.08
Buiding Majinenance            2.2     Direct Contracting (100%)     -    0.10    0.21    0.32    0.32    0.44    0.79
e-tuine  Maiermnce             4.9     Direct Contracting (100%)   0.22   0.41    0.57    0.67  | 0.99    1.01    1.03
NOTES:
/a Detailed Specficalions already completed for first 2 years
/b Specificatiom competed at 50% by negotiations: Most items are stand ard equipment and remaindcr of specifications will
be completed by December 1994.



- 188 -
Annex 16
Page 3 of 11
Civil Works Procurement: Phases & Packa2es
Bidding Packages
1.         Listed below are the 28 bidding packages that have been assembled on the basis of
geographic proximity and the required timing for phasing of the work under the project. Each
bid package would be advertised and bid as a single entity, but with separate "line items"
corresponding to the site locations in the package. For example, the first bid package shown
will have six line items corresponding to the six site locations at Srikakulam, Palakonda,
Narsannapet, Vizianagaram (D.H.), Gajapatinagaram, Vizianagaram (M.CH.) and Aganampudi.
Prospective bidders will have the option of bidding on one or more of the line items, each of
which will be evaluated independently of the other. Consequently, the bidding on this package
may result in as many as six contracts (if the low bidder on each line item is a different
contractor), or as few as one contract (if one single contractor was the low bidder for each and
every line item in the bid package).
Construction Supervision
2.         Oversight of the construction program will be provided through the Civil Works
Unit under the Joint Commissioner for General Services of the APVVP (see Organizational
Chart on page 13, Annex 5). Supervision of the construction works at any given individual site,
however, will be provided by a Junior Engineer deputed from the PWD or District Engineer's
offices on a full time basis during the conduct of the actual construction effort at the given site
to provide day to day supervision of the contractor's activities and to provide periodic reports
to the Civil Works Unit at the APVVP.  Salary costs for the engineers deputed at the
construction site will be borne by the project.
CODE  TYPE   LOCATION               PHASE   PACK   COST
(Rs.M)
101   D.H.   SRIKAKULAM               I       1    44.16
102   A.H.   PALAKONDA                I       1    17.90
104   C.H.    NARASANNAPET            I       1     7.51
201   D.H.   VIZIANAGARAM             I       1    30.85
204   C.H.    GAJAPATINAGARAM         I       1     4.43
205   M.CH.  VIZIANAGARAM             I       1    17.80
305   C.H.    AGANAMPUDI (T)          I       1     8.57
TOTAL:   131.21
1201   D.H.   ANANTAPUR               1       2    40.29
1207   A.H.    HINDUPUR               1       2     9.54
1210   A.H.   GUNTAKAL                1       2     15.04
1301   D.H.    NANDYALA               I       2    43.42
1302   C.H.    BANAGANAPALLI          1       2     9.62
1306   C.H.    YEMMIGANOOR            1       2     4.24
1401   D.H.   MAHABO0B NAGAR          1       2    43.22
1402   A.H.    GADWAL                 1       2     13.34
TOTAL:   178.70



- 189 -
Annex 16
Page 4 of 11
CODE   TYPE        LOCATION                      PHASE      PACK       COST
(Rs.M)
1504     C.H.      GHATKESAR(T)                     1          3       7.15
1601     D.H.      KING KOTI                        1          3      50.23
1602     A.H.      NAMPALLY                         1          3       10.02
1604     A.H.      GOLKONDA                         I          3       18.93
1701     D.H.      SANGA REDDY                      I          3       19.05
TOTAL:       105.38
2301     D.H.      NALGONDA                         1          4       49.99
2304     C.H.      RAMANNAPETA                      1          4       3.46
2305     C.H.      HUZURNAGAR                       I      *  4        4.31
2307     A.H.      MIRYALAGUDA (T)                  1          4       18.55
2308     C.H.      BHONGIR (T)                      1          4        1.93
TOTAL:       78.23
Sub-total Phase 1      493.52
401     D.H.       RAJAHMUNDRY                     2          5       11.18
405     C.H.       KOTHAPET                        2          5        8.06
501     D.H.       ELURU                           2          5       33.76
503     A.H.      TANUKU                           2          5       17.07
601     D.H.       MACHALIPATNAM                   2          5       56.38
606     A.H.       GUDIVADA                        2          5       13.63
TOTAL:       140.09
704     A.H.       NARASARAOPET                    2          6       15.59
708     C.H.       AMARAVATHI                      2          6        6.34
801     D.H.       ONGOLE                          2          6       15.44
803     A.H.       CHIRALA                         2          6        6.31
804     C.H.       GIDDALURU                       2          6        2.83
901     D.H.       NELLORE                         2          6       15.57
903     PD.H.    NELLORE                           2          6       4.09
TOTAL:       66.17
1001     D.H.      CHITTOOR                         2         7       46.37
1004     A.H.      MADANAPALLI                      2         7        10.77
1101     D.H.      CUDDAPAH                         2         7       43.21
1103     A.H.      PULIVENDULA                     2          7        15.09
TOTAL:       115.44
1704     A.H.      MEDAK                           2          8       14.48
1708    C.H.       ZAHEERABAD                      2          8        5.23
1801     D.H.      NIZAMABAD                       2          8       34.31
1802     A.H.      KAMA REDDY                      2          8       14.97
1901     D.H.      ADILAABAD                       2          8       58.16
1905    A.H.       BHAINSA                         2          8       15.43
TOTAL:       142.56
2001     D.H.      KARIMNAGAR                       2          9       47.45
2005     C.H.      MAHADEVAPUR                      2          9       1.81
2101     A.H.      MAHABOOBABAD                     2          9       19.61
2201     D.H.      KHAMMAM                          2          9      44.23
2205     A.H.      BADRACHALAM(T)                   2         9        10.81
TOTAL:       123.91
Subotai Phase 2        S58.16



-  190  -
Annex 16
Page 5 of 11
CODE  TYPE   LOCATION                             PHASE   PACK   COST
(Rs.M)
103     C.H.       PATHAPATNAM                      3         10       5.42
107     C.H.       ITCHAPURAM                       3         10       2.11
108     C.H.       BARUVA                           3          10       1.81
109     C.H.       SOMPETA                          3         10       2.16
303     C.H.       ARAKU                            3          10       9.09
304     C.H.       PADERU                           3          10       6.80
TOTAL:        27.40
403     C.H.       RAZOLE                           3          11       9.32
406     C.H.       PRATHIPADU                       3          11       2.60
407     A.H.       RAMPACHODAVARAM                  3          11      20.57
502     C.H.       KUVVUR                           3          11       2.57
505     C.H.       PALACOLE                         3          11       5.06
507     C.H.       CHINTALAPUDI                     3          11       3.28
508     C.H.       BHIMAVARAM (T)                   3          11       5.44
TOTAL:        48.83
602     C.H.       AVANIGADDA                       3          12       3.89
603     C.H/       NANDIGAMA                        3          12       2.71
604     A.H.       NUZIVEEDU                        3          12      13.91
605     C.H.       THIRUVURU                        3          12       6.60
607     C.H.       MYLAVARAM                        3          12       2.15
TOTAL:        29.27
702     C.H.       REPALLE                          3          13       3.59
705     C.H.       MAACHERLA                        3          13       3.44
802     C.H.       KANIGIR1                         3          13       4.04
805     A.H.       MARKAPUR                         3          13      16.31
806     M.CH.    ONGOLE                             3          13       4.86
TOTAL:        32.24
1003     C.H.      PUNGANUR                         3          14       3.93
1006     C.H.      VAYALPADU                        3          14       1.64
1007     C.H.      SATYAVEEDU                       3          14       4.18
1008     C.H.      PILER                            3          14       4.40
1102     C.H.      RAYACHOTI                        3          14       3.03
1104     A.H.      PRODDATUR                        3          14       9.96
1105     C.H.      RAJAMPET                         3          14       3.99
TOTAL:        31.13
1203     C.H.      RAYADURG                         3          15       2.15
1204     C.H.      GOOTY                            3          15       3.08
1206     C.H.      PENUKONDA                        3          15       2.59
1209     C.H.      TADIPATRI                        3          15       1.58
1211     C.H.      URAVAKONDA                       3          15       0.14
1212     C.H.      MADAKASIRA                       3          15       4.34
TOTAL:        13.88
1403     C.H.      KALVAKURTHY                      3          16       4.12
1502     C.H.      MARPALLI                         3          16       2.12
1503     C.H.      VIKARABAD (T)                    3          16       5.35
1603     A.H.      MALAK PET                        3          16       3.21
2303     C.H.      DEVARA KONDA                      3         16       3.90
TOTAL:        18.70



- 191 -
Annex 16
Page 6 of 11
CODE   TYPE         LOCATION                      PHASE       PACK      COST
(Rs.M)
1702     C.H.      NARAYAN KHED                      3         17       2.65
1705     A.H.      SIDDIPET                          3         17       19.05
1706     C.H.      NARSAPUR                          3         17       2.10
1709     M.CH.    SIDD1PET                           3         17       9.32
1803     C.H.      YELLA REDDY                       3         17       3.14
TOTAL:       36.26
1907     C.H.      BELLAMPALLI                       3         18       1.98
1908     C.H.      UTNOOR                            3         18       9.07
2004     C.H.      PEDDA PALLI                       3          18       5.29
2104     C.H.      ETURUNAGARAM                      3          18      5.30
TOTAL:        21.64
Sub-total Phase 3      259.34
105     A.H.      TEKKALI                           4          19      18.20
106     C.H.       PALASA                           4          19       5.20
202     A.H.       PARVATIPURAM                     4          19      20.01
203     C.H.       S. KOTA                          4          19       6.57
301     A.H.       NARSIPATNAM                      4          19      19.76
302     A.H.       ANAKAPALLI                       4          19      20.23
TOTAL:        89.97
402     A.H.       AMALAPURAM                       4          20      14.21
404     A.H.       RAMCHANDRAPURAM                  4          20      13.15
504     C.H.       NARSAPUR                         4          20       6.22
506     A.H.       TADEPALLIGUDEM                   4          20      18.87
TOTAL:        52.45
701     D.H.       TENALI                           4          21      46.70
703     A.H.       BAPATLA                          4          21      14.91
706     C.H.       SATTENA PALLI                    4          21       6.50
707     C.H.       CHILAKALURIPET                   4         21        6.34
TOTAL:       74.45
902     M.CH.    NELLORE                            4         22       13.13
905     A.H.       GUDUR                            4          22      18.27
906     A.H.       KAVALI                           4          22      11.80
1002     C.H.      KUPPAM                           4          22       2.37
1005     A.H.      SRI KALAHASTI                    4          22       15.13
TOTAL:        60.70
1205     A.H.      KADIRI                           4          23       15.92
1208     C.H.      DHARMAVARAM                      4          23       1.51
1303     A.H.      ADONI                            4          23       12.48
1304     M.CH.    ADONI                             4          23       1.40
TOTAL:        31.31
1404     A.H.      NARAYANA PET                     4          24       18.03
1405     C.H.      SHADNAGAR                        4          24       6.84
1501     D.H.      TANDUR                           4          24      40.27
1505     A.H.      VANASTHALIPURAM (T)              4          24      20.09
1605     M.CH.    SHAH-ALI-BANDA. HYD               4          24       6.82
1628     C.H.      BARKAS                           4          24       4.87
TOTAL:        96.92



-  192  -
Annex 16
Page 7 of 11
CODE   TYPE         LOCATION                      PHASE      PACK       COST
(Rs.M)
1703     C.H.      A JOGI PETA                      4          25       5.01
1707     C.H.      GAJWEL                           4          25       4.36
1804     A.H.      BANSWADA                         4          25       15.28
1805     A.H.      BHODAN                           4          25       17.81
TOTAL:        42.46
1902     C.H.      SIRPUR                           4          26       6.34
1903     C.H.      KHANAPUR                         4          26       5.60
1904     C.H.      NIRMAL                           4          26       16.20
1906     A.H.      MANCHERLAL                       4       * 26       11.78
1909     M.CH.    NIRMAL                            4          26       9.32
TOTAL:        49.23
2002     C.H.      METPALLI                         4          27       4.88
2003     A.H.       JAGITYAL                        4          27       15.90
2102     A.H.      JANGAON                          4          27       16.27
2103     C.H.      NARSAM PET                       4          27      5.10
TOTAL:        42.15
2202     C.H.       SATTUPALLI                       4         28       2.82
2203     C.H.       PENU BALLI                      4          28       0.43
2204     A.H.       KOTHAGUDEM(NWRCF50)              4         28       16.36
2302     A.H.       SURYAPET                        4          28       17.52
2306     A.H.       NAGARJUNASARAR (T)               4         28       1.81
TOTAL:        38.94
Sub-total Phase 4      578.58
GRAND TOTAL:    1,919.60



- 193 - -
Annex 16
Page 8 of 11
List of Eguipment to be procured for Each Hospital
The attached list provides an example of equipment available at all APVVP
hospitals in Srikakulum district. It also provides the equipment required at each facility as
per norms. Such a list is available for all 23 districts and 150 APVVP hospitals. The list of
equipment to be purchased on each facility will be based on this detailed list that has been
developed by APWP during project preparation.



DSRICT                                                          Elie L INV-1 D          30151
SRIKAKULAM                       1    __
3aeUS  2                                   ILO'dkLunderAn.dA&it4.cs  vAworL --                                                      -     -___
O8w nvApiws I- M__
_____________________             Cst   Utt U J     k3~fjvIabI3t    y-4                 I                   Rqured -as Parnu           -- _a                         TOTAL    COST
__ IAIGEQUIPMENT                   JRBLmN)1 JlI3f 911        1   ii t)I.  1                1LlL   1K         n     11.13   2.  2U i.1.39.11   D                               2     1A1322L
I    X-iu system (indA awltbon)         8m         26583    __                                                                                                     _1                   -850
2   nAX-ray system (indA liWlabon)         700         21875      1                                                                                                                2 ___  __2 400__
3_  lOOrLAX-ray system (ind .ista8tion)      330        10313    I__I                       1         __                   NBI  I__1I                            1     I __          4        1320
4      moA laX-ray system                   150        4888          1              I                 J                                           N82 __       _ _           _     0          0
5    Itad X-ray systwn                      60         1875      __1                                                             1     I     1     1     1     I     I      I      9         540
6Jlyasoroc scamw,, lknear                  300         9375       1                                                                                                                0          o
7J asoric scamner, buma sacla                700        21875    _                                                                I1_                                        _       2        140
8JIbasoinic scannw, linear sector. upgrad.  9X)       28125                                                                                                                        I         900
__________________        Ma3L~u1   1~D1Lunit un      blUyL MayI94Reqired-fas per  vs                                                   -     - _              TOTAL    COST
I   CG machliu(l12-hkad)                      1 7        531       2   _____I1    2                                                      1I- I       2           1     I    I       10         170                         F
2   aricbacmnorjtm                            25         781-      2                                                              I                  I               __              2         50
3   I(with rscude)                     85         2031       I                                                       1     I                  1               _____           3         195
4  tsr                            50~~~~~~~~~~s  1583   I                                                                                                                0          0
5     W~cIw   unit                      8           188     __                                                        2     I                  1  I               ___          4         24
6  ladiarn heoter. infant. 4KW                8           1ee                                                               1- I                     I  I__   __                     3         18
7-rdoscope, fibe-appta                     200         8250                                                                I    _                                   __             1         200
8   Pirawvn miaocope                        65         2031                                                                I   __1                                                           65
g   ryo Swxgecy. basic (ckrect attachmert)  5           156                                                                1                                                       I_  _      5
10  .roSugery, da-klux8                                   250      I_                                                                                                                3         24
1    hat-ae Ictro-pihyiotherapy urat          20          625      __                                                        I     113                                                          so
12 mta"o dil75                                     2344     __                                                             __                                                  I         75
13          (Boybs with FboTc)        125         3906       2                                                              1                 12                                        250
14   uetw c  V(Boyaw wWrA FIDTec)      6-0        18e75      2_                                                      2     I      1     1     1     I     I     1    1  I  lb           800
1 5   cieOxwn.t                               100        3125     ___1                                                             I         __                                      3         300     I
18                                ~~         ~~~~      ~~~~ ~                                                                   ~~5 158  I  2  I14                                  20
17     Nh iIbIe     __      __          21          6586        _                                                            1_                                                 3       _83
18   eesocope                               3           94        3_                                                                              --                     -     __
19  ervTtint                                  6           188      1I_                                                                   _I21
20  wegwncyrsousciAbon kit                  20         625       3__                                                      3              2      I     I2 1        I     I      1  13        280
21  ogIiQdosCOP. nigid, .a"                    2          63      _                                                          1     I13                                                          S
22 eag(tENT swgeon)                       1           31        2                         .-                                                                                     1
23   LieA"  rkaswnte                           5          156     __1                                                              I13                                                         1s
24       Modcks Care equipt (for 7 Di orly)    250       7813      _                                                        N63  __0                                                            0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -   -   -   -     -     -     -      -     -                  _     _            -     -     -     -      -     _      _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-
2_      mws  2nnaventiaw. IdvWo.A C.ur*)   _  _        _



PNEUMATIC HYRAULIC &             Unit Co[  j            kJ5~ va1Ia  ty  mayL94                                        u  - -  r.d -as pern   -            -TOTAL    COST
A     ENUP            ADIMUL ilL L121L lu- 121= lu- Ii  m   IL iM. in.~ IL ilL 111= iii. -ilL AL ilL Il  in. nuD  kLui
1- ~A  Un.                                     1 4         438       1      1   __                                                                            __ 111                     6         84
2   etalChai(                                  14          438        I     I     _    __                                                         1     I   ___            1     1       B         84
3kwotor (t,bxn. & conipresw)                   21          856       I                                                               I                  1                                2         42
4- JIbsorac dental scale                       21         656        I                                                               I                  1                                2         42
5Detalab ftme eg both. motor lthUe SW          20         625                                                                  I                                                                   20
8   ~~~~ario                               a          250        2    __     1     I            1     1            I      I      2                 2                                5          40
7           taV ble,hyd-                       35         1094       3I 2         I     I     1            I     I     I                                I     I                          2         70
8         S HP, cylaxdrc-hnontzmtI, 9KW       120         375.0      1      1  _              1                                2     I                  I                                4         490
9           *HP, vrbcui-cyinder. OKW           30          938       5      I    I            I      1     1                  NBAI_               I                        I     1       3         90
10    Wabclrca. wtth burrws. 24bn        6          188se       _    I     I                  I                  1                         I_     1           I     I             4          24
1 1            lamp OT, moble                  8           250       2    _J_   I                    I     I     1      I             3     I     i     3      1     I     I     I       14        112
12  )T kts.ciing (shadow4ess)                  45          1406       2     1     1     I      1     1     I                   1      I                  I                 I     I       5         225
13  :ocusing ghgfts, OT (mote)                  1           31       __                                        __              2      2     I     I     2      1           I     I       11        I11
14 ~uction appuratus (high vacLuminMTP)         8          250       2                        1      I                         2          2-    I  I    1            1     I     I       10        80
_l55uction ap waras, elctnceal                  5          156       10  13       1     2            I     2      2            5      1     1   _        4     1           I     2       15        -75
16  Ooot scbon apparmus                         1          31                                                                  2     1      I1    1     I     I      1     1     I       10         10
17   aajexl,actor                               2          63                                                                  2      I1    I     I     I     I      I     I     I       10        20
18  Stefiser.insbiument                        3           94        10    2      1     1     2      1     32                  a58          4     4                        5     4      54         162
19    Setrny mactur  (Wactr-egwy)              12          375       2                                                                  II                                               2          24
20   aLtery set, electric (Gyna.)             I          31                                                                  I     2      I     I     2     I      1     I    I        1 1        1 1
21   __uom _t_OT        ___gato              5           156       1     3                                                   2    __ _                2   ,I             I     I       8         40
IJiL~aaI  JDILUIL   vlabUty- May94-                                       Reqired - as pan      a    -                  ___ TOTAL    COST
_   VLutIpYEQUIPMENT                       A R          mJu[I.12L =  m.  iiiL  IL   1                    -1. 2L. iii.  ID.   11.11.L1  I!U             ii.   21   iL    l -m-          gmi         JLil2L
-L  , NrociAst wdh Mff___g  2 _1                        2          __            1           1   _               3      3     I     1      2     1           I      1      1 3       117
2 honw-Abalanco analybaVapt_cl                 _ Is                                                                    1                  1                                2         12
balance                     I~~~        31        I    __     I                                                               1     1      I     1     I     1       7          7
4  color"ter                     a          250 2__                                                                         I      I     1     1     I      I     1       a         64
_   Wm   _ph    ___       ______               I 1         563                                                                 1     I                  1             _3                           5.4
__                                             22          688                                                                 I                                                         I         22
_ _ _ _ _       _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _        5          156        _ _                                                             I                  I                                3         15
_   _Vatw          _ __ba___                   3           914       1                                                         I                        I                                9         27
_0    n _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __y_              a          250                                                                 I      113                                                          24
_   Ntrst,4bo                                   3     1    94         1                                                               112_                                                          6
_2   ____g ___________                          4          125       3   __       II                                                 2            1     1     1      1     I     I       8         32
_3    _ _ _ _ __ug    _ _ _ __m_ _c_            8          250       _ _2                                                             1                  1        14                                32
_L_ Id_p_t        ___laborat_                   2           83      __1                                                               I                 I                                3       6a
IS  RokorMhaker (laboatory)                    2           63        1                                                               I                  I                               2          4
16   onchtember (hmeauoeylometer) etc           1          31        2                               I     1   _      __       1     2      I    I      2                  I     I       9          a__
17   __ __ _ __ __ _                           15          469                                                                 I                                                         3         45
18  ,kngr(~O0                                  6           188                                                                 2     1      I     I     I     I         1     1     1 0i           60



__________   ________________   IMnfL=[  WaM aLJ aD ity -May'4                       --                       suire - a       nora          - .-           -     --___TOTAL    COST
20   crotwor                                12          375                                                                1     _                        _          __1                      12
21  Den wax-.rr~bddvig                         8          250      I_                                                                                       _                          
22 Tissue Procas,so                           65         2031                                                                1I                                                                 65
23 Bcxd-gas analysat (for 7 DH only)          450       I14083                 _             _                              N63                                             I0                  0
24  Lovbabndi comparnIon (not in use oft abs)  1          3 1                                                                                                                         0         0
25_ Tm.nstopwatch                             0 7         22        11                                                             1     I     1     1      1     1  1                9         6 3
26larmclock (trrer)                         0 4          13                                                                2     1     I     1     1      I     1     1     1      10          4
_______________  1Ii1L~~~~at4 J~~1L4~IL !~~I~!yL                                                    Reu    sprrsTOTAL   COST
_  REFRIGERATION & AC. PLANT           j32 fl~3                 1. 122=  191.. ii- _12_ iN.               -121.  12. 11   2.   2    2             2.in    l.   l          21 _:           a
1  ldrigmratcr. 165Wu                         10         313        8           1I                       1       J          2      5     I    2      4     1     I           1       1818
____   ____                                                   2~~~~~~~                ~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~ __ _    I_ _   38        60
2j  eolrsgator, 300 Wres                      20          625                                                                23                                                                 6
3  kwcorUt.ow. wth stak,dse                   28         875        5                                                       3     5      I    1 - 5        I     1I                  19        532
4Natar cooler, Ml20ktat                     IS          48(9      2                                                        1     2     1    I      2     I      1     I            i         165
5    boy n..uwy (cold store)                130        4063                                                                3     2-   I1    I      2     1      I1          1       3        1690
JUn[ JILiLf    vaIabWty - May94Requred_- as peton                                               I -I           - _               TOTAL    COST
VI, HOSPITAL PLANTM 12.   lLIl   J                                            ALJN    iL.IZ.  2              12.iL       IL   ii.12    ilL L    12_                1 am Ia2U   LCII
I  Geertor, 15 KVA (incl wstabbon)           150         4688                         I1                                                                 __      1     I     I       4        600
2  Gn*ator. 50 KVA (mci kUtIShSWI)           200         6250           __                  _                                            _ __ 1__2                                             400
3  Gerator, 62 5 KVA (Ind onsbIAsbon)        250         78113      10                                                                                                                          0
4  naweralor. 3KW                            50          1563           ___                                                                                           __2                      100
5  rwncw.tcr. 5KW                            70          2188           _             _                                     ____                                                    1         70
-lot water system (solorunmft, 1 lOOIst.)   20         6725      ____                                                                                                               1        220
________________________ __    U AUiaU   JIJ U    A   !k       t M MA'l        -R -              -quire   as per norms                  -     -     -    _      _    TOTAL      COST
/ll ADMINIST_ATIONfRECORDS            Jfit_[   Jj-~ 11 123. -21- AII. 121.  12. IL  -21 -l                            122= lot  . M 21 HI - - A2-  IlL   lL _ 1 AU_ A&           2    1W2LM
r yp.wviter                                 5           156      1                                                        3     3      1     I     3     1     I     I     I       15        75
2   ht11,eefp                               s0         2500                        __                                                                                              1         80
3  loruo ntc                                  20         625       1                                                                                                                 0          0 
4  nmtercom(155ma)                           80         2500__ I1                                                                                                      _    _        2-       1SO
5 pnawcom (40 ins.)                          200         6250      1                                                                                                                 0         0
8  Faxmachino                                 30         938       __                                                       11                                                                 30
7TSlphone (ext.rnallmnes cl quarlers)      I1I          344       4    __     1                       1    1              a      6     1    2    a       2     1     1    2       29         319
Librury facihtks                             5          156       1     - __                                                                                                      0          0
-                           i~~~~~~~~~~~MLQl&z   AWA-VL3  OvaHabI tv  Maq 4 -     -                       Reqi e- as pe  aom                            _         TOTAL    COST
_____________  ~~~~ABLML9 -MIIM(Ufl I2. 23 I23. 121 121. 12.  21 -21- 12=   2  123. 12. 12                                            21- . 121_ Il L 121 Il  I              -=MIL
1    ec                                350        10938        2    -                                                 _     1       I       I       I    _        ii                   2450
2    c-up                                306         9375       I112                                                                                                                      60
________________________  _______  _______                                                                                       GRAND:    19017~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRND 1907 






- 197 -
Annex 17
Page 1 of 10
Implementation Plan
1.        A key component of the project is strengthening the management capacity of
APVVP to adequately address its increased responsibilities. The first aspect of strengthening
APVVP's management is consolidating the existing institutional and management structure, and
evaluating the arrangements from time to time to see whether the management system is
producing the best results. APVVP is currently managed by its Governing Council consisting
of 5 members of the medical profession and Legislative Assembly nominated by the Government
of AP, and 5 ex-officio members that include the Secretaries of Health and Finance
Departments, Commissioner Institutional Finance, Vice Chancellor of the University of Health
Sciences and the Director of Health. The Governing Council has powers to make regulations,
borrow money and to levy fees for services as well as the management of the Commissionerate.
The Government has powers to issue directions to the Commissionerate in matters of inspection
and control, to make rules and undertake audit of APVVP's accounts. The Commissioner, who
is the Chairman of the Governing Council and is the Chief Executive, is appointed by the
Government from among the members of the medical profession who have administrative
experience. The AP law that established APVVP provides for Government of AP combining
operator and regulator functions for secondary hospitals, i.e., the key government officials
entrusted with supervisory authority are also members of the Governing Council. As those
officials customarily do not participate, but send Departmental representatives, in meetings of
the Governing Council, they are however able to adequately regulate the Governing Council and
management of APVVP. APVVP is a legal devise to improve disbursements and contracting and
increase participation of non-governmental organization, but is essentially part of the
Government. It is therefore subject to audit and supervisory arrangements applicable to
government agencies. At Negotiations, the Government of AP provided assurances that not later
than July 1, 1997, GOAP would carry out, jointly with GOI and IDA, a detailed mid-term
review of project progress including a management review of APVVP and thereafter implement
its recommendations.
2.        APVVP's organizational structure and the existing and proposed additional staff are
shown in the chart in Annex 5. The second aspect of strengthening management will be achieved
by the increased management training for professional cadres and on-going in-service training
for clinical and technical cadres. This will facilitate the implementation of the quality
improvement strategy of the project, through which new responsibilities are being allocated, and
it is hoped that decision making will be decentralized down to the appropriate management level.
The third aspect will consist of enhancing staff strength at the Head Office to undertake
increased responsibilities and perform some new functions. Headquarters staff will be increased
by adding 37 posts plus 3 additional posts will be created at the equipment storage facility at
King Koti hospital in Hyderabad. This will provide the required staffing to meet the increased
workload and reorient the structure of APVVP to meet its new challenges. Specific areas
targeted for strengthening include the training and referral unit (6), the finance and audit unit
(16), the Office of the Joint Commissioner, General (12) and the Office of the Joint
Commissioner, Service Delivery (3). These changes are in line with the increased responsibilities
assigned to APVVP through this project.



- 198 -
Annex 17
Page 2 of 10
3.        The implementation capacity of AP Health and Medical Housing Infrastructure
Development Corporation (APHMHIDC) would also be strengthened to deal with the increased
supervision of civil works under the project through appointment of 2 full time architects and
procurement of additional vehicles and computers. In addition, monitoring and evaluation
capacity would be strengthened including improvement of the hospital management information
system. The strengthening of the management information system (MIS) and the health
management information system (HMIS) will facilitate systems improvement, wider access and
improved data collection and utilization for planning and policy making, problem solving and
monitoring. In AP, at the hospital level, both information collection and management are
fairly rudimentary. The project will: (i) enhance and extend the computerized system through
the provision of hardware and software, and consultancy support; (ii) establish trained and
equipped information cells at HQ and district levels; (iii) train all management staff in
appropriate record keeping; and (iv) introduce a completely revised medical record system for
IPs and diagnostic services.
4.        The initial phase of project implementation will focus on developmental activities
including project launch, monitoring mechanisms and performance indicators, strengthening
health MIS system, initiating in-service training of staff in clinical, management and equipment
matters, strengthening the functions and appointing staff at the head office and supplying
equipment to existing hospitals to improve the quality of service to existing hospital facilities.
The first phase of the implementation plan for the civil works program will consist of completing
the renovation and extension of APVVP headquarters and the first phase of the hospital
upgradation program consisting of 25 hospitals. During the initial phase the implementation plan
would be to: complete topographical site surveys and soil tests; finalize and complete all
drawings including site development plans, invite bids and commence construction for 150
hospitals under the four planned phases (see Annex 17); and complete over 50 percent of phase
I and phase II and about 25 % of phase III and phase IV; and prepare and complete all drawings
including site development plans, launch bids and sign contracts of all 150 hospitals requiring
upgradation. About 30 percent of total construction is expected to be completed by the end of
the second year. At Negotiations, the Government of AP provided assurances that it would
review with IDA annually by December 31 of each year the progress of project implementation
over the preceding twelve months and prepare an annual work plan for the following twelve
months acceptable to IDA.
5.        In addition, other aspects of project implementation are covered in: Annex 13 -
Information, Education and Communication Strategy; Annex 14 - Tribal Strategy; Annex 15 -
Summary of Construction Program; Annex 16 - Procurement Arrangements; Annex 18 -
Performance Indicators; Annex 19 - Supervision Plan; and Annex 20 - Forecast of Expenditures
and Disbursements.



- 199 -
Annex 17
Page 3 of 10
Civil Works: Implementation Plan
Activity                Responsibility        Starting   Completion
Date       Date
PHASE I
Sites Acquisition            Medical Corporation and   March/94   March/94
DMHO
Topographical Surveys        Medical                   March/94   March/94
Corporation/Private Firm
Soil tests                   Medical Corporation/State   Febr/94    June/94
Engineering College
Preliminary Designs          Private Firms             April/94    July/94
Final Drawings               Private Firms             May/94     Sept/94
Site Development Plans       Private Firms             June/94    Sep/94
Completion of bid Documents    Private Firms           July/94    Oct/94
Floating of bids             Medical Corporation       Dec/94     Jan/95
Evaluation of bids           Medical Corporation       Jan/95     Feb/95
Contract signing             MOH                       March/95   April/95
Construction period          Contractors              June/95     Aug/97
Guarantee period                                       Sep/96     Aug/98
PHASE II
Sites Acquisition            Medical Corporation and   March/94   March/94
DMHO
Topographical Surveys        Medical                   March/94   March/94
Corporation/Private Firrn
Soil tests                   Medical Corporation/State   April/94    June/94
Engineering College
Preliminary Designs          Private Firms             April/94    Sept/94
Final Drawings               Private Firms            July/94     Nov/94
Site Development Plans       Private Firms             July/94    Nov/94
Completion of bid Documents    Private Firms           Nov/94     Jan/95
Floating of bids             Medical Corporation       Feb/95     March/95
Evaluation of bids           Medical Corporation       March/95   April/95
Contract signing             MOH                       May/95     June/95



- 200 -
Annex 17
Page 4 of 10
Activity                 Responsibility       Starting   Completion
Date       Date
Construction period           Contractors               July/95     Oct/97
Guarantee period                                        Oct/96      Oct/98
PHASE III
Sites Acquisition             Medical Corporation and   March/94   May/94
DMHO
Topographical Surveys         Medical                   March/94   May/94
Corporation/Private Firm
Soil tests                    Medical Corporation/State   June/94   Oct/94
Engineering College
Preliminary Designs           Private Firms             Dec/94      March/95
Final Drawings                Private Firms             Feb/95     June/95
Site Development Plans        Private Firms             May/95      July/95
Completion of bid Documents    Private Firms            June/95     Oct/95
Floating of bids              Medical Corporation       Oct/95      Jan/96
Evaluation of bids            Medical Corporation       Dec/95      Feb/96
Contract signing              MOH                       Feb/96      April/96
Construction period           Contractors               April/96    March/98
Guarantee period                                        July/97     March/99
PHASE IV
Sites Acquisition             Medical Corporation and   March/94   Dec/94
DMHO
Topographical Surveys         Medical                   April/94    Feb/95
Corporation/Private Firm
Soil tests                    Medical Corporation/State   July/94   Feb/95
Engineering College
Preliminary Designs           Private Firms             April/95    Aug/95
Final Drawings                Private Firms             July/95     Nov/95
Site Development Plans        Private Firms             Aug/95      Dec/95
Completion of bid Documents    Private Firmns           Nov/95      March/96
Floating of bids              Medical Corporation       Feb/96      April/96



- 201 -
Annex 17
Page 5 of 10
Activity                Responsibility       Starting   Completion
Date       Date
Evaluation of bids           Medical Corporation      March/96   June/96
Contract signing             MOH                      May/96      Aug/96
Construction period          Contractors              July/96     Oct/98
Guarantee period                                      Sep/97      Oct/99



A.P. District Level Health Systems Project
Implementation Plan
I       1         99M 991                                    1 ,I    91 9             1999"        31                    91
t#91W IMMI ^ II    U * IF1 3 5. 1I ^1  [Im  *1 31^ I AI   V101M  I Fg   I II  S  1  II  S  IF, A 54^11 *1 * I1  F1.1A  II  1 AI F^1< *1 I[ f I,.   d
CIVIL WORKS - PHASE 1(25 Hospitals)
CIVIL WORKS - PHASE 11 (28 Hospitlsk)
S-~ Ac9s.*o
SdT..V&        -1 b SnkllHM                                    1 1  11 I II I1                        III                        IL  I     I I I I I I I I11l l
t~~~~~   ,<
S .1  BdT -.
Co.~~~~~I  d B.i O,nss.5 ~~~~                       ~LLI1- L
Cw.csY S3..(4
CII  W~ORK          HS    1(8Hsias
S- A,"uwd



A.P. District Level Health Systems Project
Implementation Plan
MI           *II                        I       I         . I       I *                                  I         _
CIVIL WORKS-PHAIE (   Hosp Ital,s   AI ) qSI0Ik^J'I1  li  I I $II dIFl)A .1  PI" Albq.I, I i I Al      Flbq 1 Al I-IL" 1 $ ASI 1zDI I FI^^1^ I[ Al Si I
CIVIL WORKS - PHASE IIV (50 Hospitals)
S-sqlli g A., ;111111111111111111111111111111'1111111111111111111111111111111111
<                                                         i,. .bi1                                    T       
C"IVIL WOKD -PAE V(4gopias
C-..~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ sqz-t 



A.P. District Level Health Systems Project
Implementation Plan
33                334      1      3              3m 1           33       1      9             13             31 Ils 
ISfSA SAA  llN  t I~ f I0I,  S1AJJ  *I-1F  *fl4b   S1 1.JO SqD1I  SIq    IIA SII1I# 5I 5I54 b  11 AI $ 5,1q   55Iq---JJ4I  PR] I~ Slql I ASIJq     I 5i41 0 551. ;;;
EQUIPMENT
DTRICT. ARA & COMMUMT HOSPITALS (TOTAL 15_
CDps.. wks."p.3sS    -ISSo.  
Ph,p.s. b. d 8
B."YP.d To.                                                                                                                                  T
FURNISHINGS
DISTRICr, AMEA a COMMBUNfl HOQPrfAL (MOAL 1se
*.pld1-        1mFN11 A I S                              1 j               ISa3llllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIMlTI    HIl I           lll
F..1_ I."   Wew" "u -lb ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~  I.
xF_ _M _ ___ _. jSA wSSS&                              0 __1___-                                                |1l11111      
hft.p.. b1Wt60:1Wt                                                                    IIIII   T          ITIIIM IiklllLiil
B.6~ ~ gS E   .9-                                              -ll ,M141111111111111 
dh A ImAulllllll



A.P. District Level Health Systems Project
Implementation Plan
tfFil h IF I IMli20   *SR   99s I  W111 I81 11  I   919190 99   I J VI 9IA9   VI) I lA   JJI  9  * J    1  0     9J*I4A1 19 N1 I I A l I -I I
COMPONENT ACTIVITIES
UPGRADE CLINICAL EFFECTIVENESS
PF,,- I dllu*T.A-9 M-1 lI                             III I III I I 111111111 I I11111111 IIII1111I I I II   I I1111111111I111111III
ENHANCE STAFF SKILLS (CLINICAL)
Wpk  k S^- T...          _                                                                                                              I_     II                    11111111111111111111111111111111
0
Un
QUALITY ASSURANCE IN HOSPITALS
|PHASE I0  ~- DI Hp.I I                     I I IIIIIIIIIIIIII\II
IMPROVE REFERRAL SYSTEM
DI ft-A 'C11                                            '1             1'1                              11
T.9a.q 0.0 PI4C dono.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       ........
I"
I  lt ll tt t:@  I  I  I  |  |  || ||  i| | "| "" |" |" ""    "     "    "    i  |   "    "   |  |  i i! i| i| * |  |cmI-TI 



A.P. District Level Health Systems Project
Implementation Plan
VEHICLES
C,a"..w Hp.1.d
I>
O q



Performance Indicators
Table 1: Physical Completion Targets
Hospital Upgradation
Hospital        Bids Adverfised    %    Bids Evaluated       %    Contrcts Signed       %    Construction Start   %    Physical Completion    _    No. of Beds
Upgradation                            I_ _ _                                                            _ _ __            _ _  _  _  _  _
PLanned   Actual         Planned    Acanz          Planned    Actal          Planned    Actual          Planned    Actual          Baseline     Planned    Actal
Phase I'
Di7strict                                                                                                                                         1515
Amea                                                                                                                                              465
Community                                                                                                                                         270
Phase 11r
District                                                                                                                                         2949
Area                                                                                                                                              632
Comnity                   ____                                              __                         __ __ 
Phase MW
District                                                                                                                                           0
Area                                                                                                                                              297
Community  l                                                                                                                                      1400
Phasc IV4
Distrit                                                                                                                                           136
Area                                                                                                                                              1186
Community                                                                                  ________651
I In Phase I, 25 hospitals are planned for upgradation including 8 District, 8 Area and 9 Community hospitals.
2 In Phase II, 28 hospitals are planned for upgradation including 11 District, 11 Area and 6 Community Hospitals.
3 In Phase III, 50 hospitals are planned for upgradation, including 6 Area and 44 Community Hospitals.                                                               o 
I In Phase IV, 47 hospitals are planned for upgradation, including 2 District, 25 Area and 20 Community Hospitals.                                                   C



Table 2: Physical Completion Targets
Staff Ouarters
Staff Quarters       Bids Advertised       %     Bids Evalusted         %     Contracts Signed        %     Constnuction Start     %     Physical Completion      %     No. of Staff Quarters
(new & upgraded)
Planned    Actua           Planed    Actual              Planned    Actua             Planned    Actal              Planned     Actual            Baseline      Planned    Actua
Pluase!I
Typel1                                                                                                                                                                 4
Type U                                                                                                                                                                20
Type Ini                                                                                                                                                              35
Type TV            ________                                                                                                                                           45
P[aE I    IILiLEl
Type !                                                                                                                                                                 7
Type!!1                                                                                                                                                               26
Type In                                                                                                                                                               29                                    N
Type IV                                                                                                   ____                                       ___260
Phase 1n
Type!I                                                                                                                                                                 0
Type U                                                                                                                                                                23
Type InI                                                                                                                                                              20
Type IV                                                                                                                                _ __                           16
Phase IV
Type!I                                                                                                                                                                 0
Type II                                                                                                                                                               29
Type Ill                                                                                                                                                              23
Type  IV                                                   _  _ ___ _ _                __  _  ___              _  __21



- 209 -
Annexc IS
Page 3 of 24
Table 3: HosDital Activity Indicatorse
Baseline   Targetse   Previous   Current   Percent Change     Percent Change
Review     Review    Current/Previous    Current/Previous
1. Bed Capacity3
2. Cumulative inpatient days during
past 6 months
3. Admissions during past 6 months
4. Outpatient Consultations (new and
repeat)
5. Turnover rate
6. Bed Occupancy rate'
7. Average length of stay (days)'
8. Outpatient per bed day
Table 6 provides baseline data fbr each category by hospital.
I Hospital Activity Indicators are largely based on Mahapatra and Berman, 'Using Hospital Activity
Indicators to Evaluate Performance in Andhra Pradesh, India', International Journal of Health PlAnnin and
Mau,ement, Vol. 9, pp. 199-211; 1994.
2 Where applicable.
3 Total for all APVVP hospitals.
I Average for APVVP hospitals.



- 210
Annex 18
Page 4 of 24
Table 4: Hospital Efficiency Indicators'
Baseline      Previous     Current        Percent Change     Percent Change
Review       Review         Current/Previous   Current/Baseline
Clinical Services
# of Major Surgeries
% of Major Surgeries to Admission
# of Deliveries
% of Deliveries to Admission
Emerzency Service Index
Emergency OP ratio'
Emergency entry ratio'                         __l
Diagnostic Services
# of Imaging and electro medical tests
% of Imaging and electro medical test
to admission
# of Laboratory test
% of Laboratory test to admission
Non Clinical Services
# of Post-mortems
% of post-mortems to admission
% of post-operative case fatality
% of infection acquired in the hospital
(nosocomial infection)
Table 7 provides baseline data tar each category Sy hos;ital.
I Hospital Efficiency Indicators are largely based on Mahapatra and Berman, op. cit.
2 Emergency outpatient ratio in the ratio of emergency outpatients to total outpatients.
3 Emergency entry ratio is the ratio of admissions during emergency hours to total admissions.



- 211 -
Anncx 18
Page 5 of 24
Table 5: Ouality Access and Effectiveness Indicators (cont'd)
J Baseline                   [ Previous Review              Current Review
Inpatient waiting time (min)
Outpadent waiting time (mfin)
Patient satisfaction with doctors and other medical
staff rating (scale of 1-7)
Patient satisfaction with services offered rating
(scale of 1-7)
Patient satisfaction with facilities available rating
(scale of 1-7)
Hospital cleanliness rating (scale of 1-7)
Hospital staffing. equipment and drug norms
% of staffing norms met for doctors                       89.3
% of staffing norms met for nurses                        88.1
% of staffing norms met for other categories of staff     93.2
% of equipment norms met at facility                      30.1'
% availabiliy of drugs to norms at facility                -
Trainin
% Clinical taining cumcula prepared
% Trainers attended clinical training of trainers
workshop
l. Coverage of chemical training: short courses
nurses
ANMS
doctors
others
X Coverage of clinical training: practical training
special nursing
doctors
others
X Coverage of management training at: APVVP
district hospital
area hospital
cormunity hospital
X Coverage of equipment training and maintenance
4 Table 8 provides baseline data for percentage of equipment norms met at each facility.



- 212 -
Annex 18
Page 6 of 24
Table 5: Ouality Access and Effectiveness Indicators (cont'd)
|__________________P_ _Baseline  Previous Review            Current Review
Ouality Assurance Proeram
N of disciplines that have implemented QA in DH
# of indicators implemented
% of investigations completed
% of remedial actions reported
EEC
% of S spent against targets for materials
% of awareness among target groups of APVVP
services
% awareness among tribal population of services
provided
% awareness of user charges among outpatients
% awareness of user. charges among inpatients
% awareness among doctors of referal system:
PHC to community hospitals
Community hospitals to area hospitbls
Area  hospitals to  district hospitas          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
MIS
J of supervisory reports based on MIS daa received
by APVVP from its hospitals
Cost Recovery
# of beds delineated as paying beds (only DH & AH)
% of beds delineated as paying beds to total beds at
facility (only DH & AH)
Amount of S recovered from paying beds
Amount of $ recovered from other chargea



TA1LS 4: A.P.VAIDYA VIDHANA PARISHAD, HYDXRABAD
HOSPITAL ACTIVITY INDICATORS FOR THS PfRIOD OF 1/94 TO 06/94
Avg. len of stay - IP days/(Discharge+deaths)z   B.O.Rate-(IPdays/No.of days)/bedo100; Turn Over Rate - (bads*no.of days-IP)/(Dis+dths)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ _ - - -
Hosp.  H Hospital Name & Place       I Bed  I Cumulative  I Admissions    Out patient     Turn    Bed          Avg.Lan   Out Patient
Code                                 I Capa-I Inpatient   I during past  Consultants      over   Occupancy    of Stay  j Per Bed day
I city I days during | 6 months    I (New & Repeat)j Rate  I Rats
I      I past  6  mnthal          I               I        I                  I            I
101  DISTRICT HOSPITAL               230       34206          3278         186392       2.35       82.17      10.82       5.45
SRIAXAULAM
102  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30        3690          1212          27444       1.46       67.96       3.09       7.44
PALAKONDA
103  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30        1146           153          18191      31.04       21.10       8.30      15.87
PATHAPATNAM
104  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30           0             0              0       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00
NARASANNA PITA
105  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30        7091           991          40989      -1.65      130.59       7.05       5.78
TEKSALI
106  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30        1406           167           7734      32.98       25.89      11.52       5.50
PALASA
107  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30         777            98          14445      57.44       14.31       9.59      18.59
ITCHAPUPAM
108  COYMUNITY HOSPITAL               30        1003           131          11642      35.42       18.47       8.02      11.61
BARUVA
109  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30        1853           866          14102       4.19       34.13       2.17       7.61
SOMPSTA                                                                                                                                                (
470       51172         6896          320939       5.07       60.15       7.66       6.27
201 DISTRICT HOSPITAL                150       26124          3546          97393       0.31       96.22       7.87       3.73
VIZIANAGARAN
202  COMKUNITY HOSPITAL               30        6106          1316          41817      -0.57      112.45       5.17       6.85
PARVATIPURAM
203  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30        1203           426          44080      11.04       22.15       3.14      36.64
S.XOTA
204  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30        6148          1195          28509      -0.61      113.22       5.21       4.64
GAJAPATHINAGARAM
240       39581         6483          211799      0.64        91.12       6.53       5.35
301  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30        3597           307          23524       6.34       66.24      12.45       6.54
NARSIPATNAM
302  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               32        2384           598          56388       6.74       41.16       4.71      23.65
ANAXAPALLI
303  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30         268            41           6092      99.27        4.94       5.15      22.73
ARAFU
304  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL               30         605            89          18223      56.76       11.14       7.12      30.12
PADERU
122        6854         1035          104227     16.34       31.04       7.35       15.21                         0 
O: X
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



A.P.VAIDYA VIDHANA PARISHAD, HYDRRABAD
HOSPITAL ACTIVITY INDICATORS FOR THE PERIOD OF 1/94 TO 06/94
Avg. ln of stay - IP days/(Discharge+deaths);   B.O.Rate-(IPdays/No.of days)/beds100; Turn Over Rate - (beds*no.of days-IP)/(Dis+dtha)
Hasp.   Hospital Name & Place          j Bad  I Cumulative  I Admissions    Out patient   |Turn  |Bd                  Avg.Len    Out Patient
Cods                                   I Capa-| Inpatient   I duritng past | Consultants        Over    Occupancy    of stay    Per Bed day
city [ days during | 6 months    I (New & Repeat)l Rate  j Rate
I      I past 6 mnthsl               I                I
401  DISTRICT HOSPITAL                  250       31141           3491          183186        4.04       68.82        8.92        5.88
RAJAm(UNDRY
402  COMKUNITY HOSPITAL                  70         9079          1206           39899        2.97       71.66        7.52        4.39
AMALPURAM
403  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         2014           377           15527        9.79       37.09        5.77        7.71
RAZOLZ
404  COKMMNITY HOSPITAL                  44         8652          1566           61599       -0.46      108.64        5.75        7.12
RAMACHANDRAPURAM
405  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         4349           718           46205        1.70        80.09       6.83       10.62
KOTHAPRT
406  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         1600           260           13898       15.44       29.47        6.45        8.69
PRATHIPADU
407  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         5207           893           18221        0.28        95.89       6.59        3.50
RANPACHODAVARAN
484       62042           8511          378535        3.11       70.82        7.54        6.10
----------------------------------------------------------- ----- --   __-- _____----- ----- _---- ----------
501  DISTRICT HOSPITAL                  340       55727           7561          216000        0.77       90.55        7.41        3.88
RLURU
502  COMMKNITY HOSPITAL                  52            0             0               0        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
KOVVUR
503  COMKUNITY HOSPITAL                  70         8447          1327           97682        3.25       66.67        6.50       11.56
TAMUKU
504  COKMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30            0             0               0        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
RARSAPUR
505  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        3549            448           25813        4.37       65.36        8.25        7.27
PALACOLR
506  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30            0             0               0        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
TADEPALLIGUDEM
507  COMKUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        1160            262           14661       17.15       21.36        4.66       12.64
CHINTALAPUDI
582       68883           9598          354156        3.84       65.39        7.26        5.14
601  DISTRICT HOSPITAL                  338       39684           4688          112538        4.60       64.87        8.50        2.84
MACHALIPATNAM
602  COOU3NITY HOSPITAL                  50        3991            462           38183       10.88       44.10        8.58        9.57
AVANIGADDA
603  COMKUNITY HOSPITAL                  50        3920            664           39219        7.95       43.31        6.08       10.00
NANDIGAMA
604  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        3551            642           44445        3.68       65.40        6.95       12.52
NUZIVEEDU                                                                                                                                                   to
605  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  50        2029            416           32068       19.24       22.42        5.56       15.80                          JQ
THIRUVURV                                                                                                                                                   Xi
606  AREA HOSPITAL                      100       10609           1632           62077        4.86       58.61        6.89        5.85
GUDIVADA                                                                           ~                                                                           X



A.P.VAIDYA VIDHANA PARISHAD, HYDZRABAD
HOSPITAL ACTIVITY INDICATORS FOR THE PERIOD OF 1/94 TO 06/94
Avg. len of stay - IP days/(Discharge+deaths);   B.O.Rate.(IPdays/No.of days)/beds*100; Turn Over Rate - (beds*no.of days-IP)/(Dis.dths)
Hosp.   Hospital Nnes & Place           I Bd  I Cumulative  I Admissions  I Out patient            Turn    Bed         j  Avg.Len    Out Patient
Cods                                    I Capa-j Inpatient   I during past I Consultants           Over    Occupancy I of Stay    Per Bed day
city I days during | 6 montha    | (New & Repeat)l Rate  I Rate             I
I      I past 6 mnthsl                                 I         I            I
607  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                   30         4717            765           33210         0.96        86.87        6.37        7.04
NYLAVARAN
648       68501            9269          361740        5.46        58.40        7.67        5.28
701  ARZA HOSPITAL                       100        14380           1660            67038        2.31        79.45        8.92        4.66
TSNALI
702  CONNWNITY HOSPITAL                   30         5277            666           32455         0.24        97.18        8.13        6.15
RZPALLS
703  CONKUNITY HOSPITAL                   67         5992           1273            83199        4.99        49.41        4.87       13.89
BAPATLA
704  CONHUNITY HOSPITAL                   50         1870            257           32355        26.89        20.66        7.00       17.30
NARASARAO PZTA
705  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                   30         4011            511           53968         2.90        73.87        8.20       13.45
NAACEZRLA
706  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                   36         3484            867           55393         4.18        53.47        4.80       15.90
SATTENA PALLI
708  CIVIL DISPENSARY                      0            0               0          27637         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
CHILARALURI PZTA
313       35014            5234          352045        4.35        61.80        7.04       10.05
801  DIST. HOSPITAL                      190        17490           1892           80579         8.98        50.86        9.29        4.61
ONGOLS
802  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                   50            0              0                0        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
KANIGIRI
803  CONMUNITY HOSPITAL                  100        10249           1108           45042         8. 29      56.62        10.82        4.39
CHIRALA
804  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                   30         4240            819           27439         1.66       78.08         5.91        6.47
GIDDALURU
805  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                   30            0              0                0        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
MANIAPUR
400       31979            3819          153060       11.39        44.17        9.01        4.79
901  DIST. HOSPITAL                      250         5374            621           22414       67.36        11.88         9.08        4.17
NELLORZ
902  R.S. hTY. HOSPITAL                   90            0              0                0       0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
NELLORE
903  R.S.PAEDIATRIC HOSPITAL              30            0              0                0       0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00
NELLORS                                                                                                                                                          I
904  W.F.T.B. & C.D. HOSP                264        43255            951                0       4.71        90.52       44.96         0.00                            to
NZLLORI                                                                                                                                                          e
&o



A.P.VAIDYA VIDRANA PARISHAD, HYDERARAD
HOSPITAL ACTIVITY INDICATORS FOR THE PfRIOD OF 1/94 TO 06/94
Avg. ln of stay - IP days/(Discharge+deaths);   B.O.Rate.(IPdays/No.of days)/beds*1001 Turn Over Rate - (beds*no.of days-IP)/(Dis+dths)
RoHp.   Hospital Name  & Place          J Bed  F Cumulative  I Admissions  j Out patient   j  Turn  |Bd                 Avg.Len    out Patiant
Code                                    I Capa-I Inpatient   I during past I Consultants         Over    Occupancy    of Stay    Per Bed day
I city | days during | 6 months      I (NHw & Ropeat)|  Rate  I Rate
I      I past 6 nthul                I                            I          I
905  COVUVWITY HOSPITAL                  75          920            207           20915       64.57         6.78        4.69       22.73
GVDUR
906  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  60         5673           1527           36001        3.52        52.24        3.85        6.35
RAVALI
769       55222            3306           79330      26.04        39.67       17.13        1.44
1001  DIST. HOSPITAL                     270        36127           7044          135138        1.84        73.92        5.23        3.74
CHITTOOR
1002  CONWUITY HOSPITAL                   30            0              0                0       0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
RVPAJi
1003  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         2876            536           15310        4.77        52.97        5.38        5.32
PUVGANUR
1004  COCNITY HOSPITAL                    82            0              0                0       0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00                                N)
NADANAPALLI
1005  COMMUWITY HOSPITAL                  32         4576           1036           29894        1.23        79.01        4.62        6.53                                0'
SRI KALAY ASTI
1006  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         4174            718           27389        1.82        76.87        6.05        6.56
VAYALPADU
1007  COC8ONITY HOSPITAL                  30         3504            932           21540        2.27        64.53        4.12        6.15
SATYAVUUDU
1008  COMMDNITY HOSPITAL                  30         6025           1282           59023       -0.49       110.96        4.93        9.80
PILSR
534       57282          11548          288294        3.52        59.27        5.12        5.03
1101  DIST. HOSPITAL                     352        64929          10346          159587       -0.12       101.91        6.22        2.46
CUDDAPAH
1102  COMUDNITY HOSPITAL                  30         7673           1240           85007       -1.79       141.31        6.13       11.08
RAYACHOTI
1103  CONNDNITY HOSPITAL                  34         4373            473           42865        4.40        71.06       10.80        9.80
PULIVlDDULA
1104  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  47        10871           1176           97333       -2.10       127.79        9.67        8.95
PRODDATUR
1105  CONUNSITY HOSPITAL                  32         5794           1419           77854        0.00       100.03        4.48       13.44
RAJAVP T
495       93640          14654           462646       -0.28      104.51        6.45        4.94
1201  DIST. ROSPITAL                     350        20472           3560           38339       12.04        32.32        5.75        1.87
1HA2P0P6R                                                                                                                                                    oL
1202  C.D. HOSPITAL                       60         7065            230           25599       15.95        65.06       29.68        3.62                          0 
ANANTAPUR                                                                                                    



A.P.VAIDYA VIDHANA PARISHAD, HYDERABAD
HOSPITAL ACTIVITY INDICATORS FOR THE PERIOD OF 1/94 TO 06/94
Avg. len of stay - IP days/(Discharge+deatha);   B.O.Rate-(IPdays/No.of days)/beds*100; Turn Over Rate - (beds*no.of days-IP)/(Dis+dths)
Haop.   Hospital Eame & Place           I Bd  I Cumulative  I Admissions  I Out patient          Turn    B Bed       I      Av.Ln    out Patient
Code                                    I Capa-I Inpatient   I during past I Consultants         Over    Occupancy I of Stay    Per Bed day
city   days during | 6 months    I (Now & Repeat)l Rate  I Rate            I
| past6mthfl                  I                I         I           I      
1203  COhMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         4609           1315           57052        0.69        84.88        3.88       12.38
RAYADURG
1204  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  36         6248           1688           32350        0.15        95.89        3.58        5.18
SOOTY
1205  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  62         6133            989          157154        5.77        54.65        6.95       25.62
KADIRI
1206  CONMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        10281           1967           45150       -2.68       189.34        5.69        4.39
PENUXONDA
1207  AREA HOSPITAL                      100        26253           4787           70197       -1.69       145.04        5.45        2.67
HINDUPUR
1208  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  37         5133           1907           66146        0.86        76.65        2.83       12.89
DaRKNAVARAN
1209  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  25         3377           1259           26301        0.92        74.63        2.70        7.79
TADIPATRI
1210  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30          725            342           57347       14.34        13.35        2.21       79.10
GUNTAXAL                                                                                                                                                           I
1211  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         5678            985           40571       -0.27       104.57        6.18        7.15
URAVAKONDA
1212  COUKUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         4643            721           26826        1.14        85.51        6.75        5.78
NADAXASIRA
820      100617          19750          643032        2.49        67.79        5.23        6.39
1301  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                 100        13348           2570          137494        1.85        73.75        5.21       10.30
NANDYALA
1302  CONKMWITY HOSPITAL                  50         8045           1382           58112        0.78        88.90        6.28        7.22
BANAGANAPALLI
1303  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  50         9357           1496           96854       -0.22       103.39        6.65       10.35
ADONI
1304  W & C YTY. HOSPITAL                 46         8252           8623          100886        0.01        99.11        1.06       12.23
ADONI
1305  CIVIL DISPENSARY                     0            0              0           17033        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
B.CANP, KURNOOL
1306  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         6834           1538           44621       -0.92       125.86        4.48        6.53
YXYMIGANOOR
276       45836          15609          455000        0.28        91.75        3.15        9.93
1401  DIST. HOSPITAL                     235        25535          10363          214384        1.65        60.03        2.48        8.40
MAHABOOB NAGA"
1402  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  40         1781            567           74147        9.78        24.60        3.19      41.63
GADWAL
1403  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         5629           1433           66427       -0.14       103.66        3.98       11.80                             _L
XALVAxnRTHY
1404  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         6440           1334           55928       -0.78       118.60        4.97        8.68
NARAYANA PET                                                                                                                                                   FJ



A. P. VAIDYA VIDRANA PARISHAD, HYDfRARAD
HOSPITAL ACTIVITY INDICATORS FOR TEX PERIOD OF 1/94 TO 06/94
Avg. len of stay - IP days/(Discharge+deathf);   B.O.Rate-(IPdays/No.of days)/beds-100; Turn Over Rate - (beds*no.of days-IP)/(Dis+dths)
Hoop.   Hospital Name & Place             I Bed  I Cumulative  I Admissions  I Out patient            Turn    Bed             Avg.Len    Out Patient
Code                                      I Capa-I Inpatient    I during past I Consultents           Over  j Occupancy    of Stay    Per Bed day
I city I days during | 6 monthA        I (Now & Repeat)l  Rate    R-ate-
I      I past 6 mnthel                 I                 I         I
1405  COIrUNI7TY HOSPITAL                    30            0               0                0        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
SHADlaRAR
365        39385           13697          410886         1.97        59.62         2.90       10.43
1501  COUNGITY HOSPITAL                      36         1177             289           16590        19.07        18.06         4.20       14.10
TONDUR
1502  COISUNITY HOSPITAL                     30         2968             569           41273         5.57        54.66         6.71       13.91
YARPALLI
66         4145             858           57863        10.80        34.70         5.74       13.96
1601  AREA HOSPITAL                        100         15463            1035           80724         3.08        85.43        18.09        5.22                                    ra
KING KOTI
1602  AREA HOSPITAL                          80         9525            1274          154627         4.17        65.78         8.02       16.23                                    
NAMPALLY
1603  AREA HOSPITAL                        100         17783            2707          277365         0.12        98.25         6.75       15.60
MNAIAK PET
1604  AREA HOSPITAL                        105             0               0                0        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
GOLKONDA
1605  SB.B.B. MTY. HOSPIT                   50         5041             815           88775         6.68        55.70         8.40       17.61
SHA-ALI BANDA, HYD
1606  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0              10           71180         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
KARVAN
1607  CIVIL DISPBNSARY                        0            0               0           72707         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
DUD BONLI
1608  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0               0           55593         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
ALIYA BAD
1609  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0               0           11533         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
PANJASHAH
1610  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0               0           28918         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
MYSARAM
1611  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0               0           34151         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
MALAX PITA
1612  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0               0           35693         0.00         0.00         0.00        0 .00
XHAIRATABAD
1613  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0               0           17449         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
SRCRXTARIAT
1614  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0               0           38981         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
PANJAGUTTA
1615  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0               0           35617         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
IARIB NAGAR 
1616  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0               0           58302         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
SAXAT NAOAR                                                                                                                                                          IL
1617  CIVIL DISPENSARY                        0            0               0           23667         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
MUSEnnrDsAD"



A.P.VAIDYA VIDH'ANA PARISHAD, HYDERABAD
HOSPITAL ACTIVITY INDICATORS FOR THE PERIOD OF 1/94 TO 06/94
Avg. l-n of stay . IP days/(Dircharge+deaths);   B.O.Rate-(IPdays/No.of days)/beds*100; Turn Over Rate - (beds'no.of days-IP)/(Dis+dths)
Haop. j Hospital Name & Place           I Bed  I Cumulative  I Admissions  I Out patient         Turn    Bed         J Avg.Len    Out Patient
Code                                    I Capa-I Inpatient   I during past I Consultants         Over    Occupancy    of Stay    Per Bed day
I city I days during | 6 months    I (New & Repeat)|  Rate    Rate
I      I past 6 nthsl                I                I         I
1618  CIVIL DISPENSARY                      0           0              0           50183        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
KAAKATI PURA
1619  CIVIL DISPENSARY                      0           0              0           12720        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
HIGH COURT
1620  CIMVL DISPENSARY                      0           0              0           18583        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
BHAG AMBER PET
1621  CIVIL DISPENSARY                      0           0              0           16962        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
HYD DIV. WARD 10
1622  CIVIL DISPENSARY                      0           0              0           23977        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
SEC DIV. 2,3,4,5 a 8
1623  CIVIL DISPENSARY                      0           0              0           38952        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
SEC DIV. 10 WARD
1624  CIVIL DISPENSARY                     0            0              0           26811        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
BYDERABAD 14 WARD
1625  CIVIL DISPENSARY                      0           0              0           43664        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00                                 r.
HYDERABAD 17 WARD                                                                                                                                                  F'
1626  CIVIL DISPENSARY                      0           0              0           41722        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
HYDERABAD WARD 21
1627  CIVIL DISPENSARY                     0            0              0           11271        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
JUBLEE HILLS
1628  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30            0              0               0        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
BARTAS
465       47812           5841         1370127        6.89        56.81        9.06       28.66
1701  DIST. HOSPITAL                     220            0              0               0        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
SANGA REDDY
1702  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         3978            559           17988        2.76        73.26        7.55        4.52
NARAYAN KHED
1703  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  36         3056            636           54580        6.15        46.90        5.43       17.86
A. JOGI PETA
1704  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  32         6343           1200           29600       -0.46       109.51        5.35        4.67
MEDAK
1705  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  60         2348            942           21705        9.98        21.62        2.75        9.24
SIDDIPET
1706  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30            0              0               0        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
NARSAPUR
1707  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         1527            250           28657       16.33        28.12        6.39       18.77
GAJWEL
1708  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         1605            416           10432        9.66        29.56        4.05        6.50
ZAEBERARAD
468       18857           4003          162962       17.50        22.26        5.01        8.64
1801  DIST. HOSPITAL                     302        29709           5640          158996        4.44        54.35        5.29        5.35
NIZA UASAD



A. P .VAIDYA VIDHANA PARIShAD, HYDERABAD
HOSPITAL ACTIVITY INDICATORS FOR THE PERIOD OF 1/94 TO 06/94
Avg. ln of stay . IP days/(Discharge+deaths);   B.O.Rate-(IPdays/No.of days)/beds*100; Turn Over Rate - (beds-no.of days-IP)/(Dis+dths)
Hoop.   Hospital Name & Place          I Bed  I Cumulative  I Admissions  I Out patient         Turn   fBed        I Avg.Len  | Out Patient
Code                                   I Capa-I Inpatient   I during past J Consultants         Over    Occupancy I of Stay    Per Bed day
I city I days during | 6 months    I (New & Repeat)|  Rate  | Rate                I
I  past 6 mnthsl             I                          I           I            I
1802  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        6117           1215           39767       -0.57      112.65        5.06        6.50
KAMA REDDY
1803  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        3951            581           24144        2.68       72.76        7.17        6.11
YELLA REDDY
1804  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  40        3438            738           37427        5.17       47. 49       4. 68      10 .89
BANSWADA
1805  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  50        5717            790           41990        4.32       63.17        7.42        7.34
BHODAN
452       48932           8964          302324        3.70       59.81        5.51        6.18
1901  DIST. HOSPITAL                     230       26273           5278           92788        2.90       63.11        4.97        3.53
ADILAABAD
1902  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         486            129           12904       40.20        8.95        3.95       26.55
SIRPUR
1903  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        6232            831           44294       -0.97      114.77        7.53        7.11                                  0
KNANAPUR
1904  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  40        7861           1098           45175       -0.57      108.58        7.17        5.75
NIRMAL
1905  COMNUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        7922           1990           28000       -1.26      145.89        4.01        3.53
BHAINSA
1906  CONNUNITY HOSPITAL                  50        4883            942           44871        4.32       53.96        5.07        9.19
MANCHERIAL
1907  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        1159            211           24763       19 .59      21.34        5. 32      21.37
BELLAMPALLI
1908  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        3680            495           11536        3.68       67.77        7.73        3.13
UTNOOR
470       58496          10974          304331        2.42       68.76        5.33        5.20
2001  DIST. HOSPITAL                     257       37480           4961          351793        2.04       80.57        8.45        9.39
KARIMMAGAR
2002  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        5933           1107           37036       -0.46      109.26        5.42        6.24
rMPALLI
2003  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  40        8563           1421          197881       -0.93      118.27        6.05       23.11
JAGITYAL
2004  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        4538            830           42815        1.11       83.57        5.64        9.43
PEDDA PALLI
2005  COHMUNITY HOSPITAL                  30        3481            803           41450        2.50       64.11        4.47       11.91
MAHADEVAPUR
------------------~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------NtX
387       59995           9122          670975        1.18       85.65        7.03      11.18
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   --------------------~~~~~~=                  E
CD



A.P.VAIDYA VIDHANA PARISAD, HYDZRA8AD
HOSPITAL ACTIVITY INDICATORS POR TEE PERIOD OF 1/94 TO 06/94
Avg. len of atay . IP days/(Diocharge+deathm);  B.O.Rate.(IPdays/No.of days)/bedm*100; Turn Over Rate - .(bed*no.of dayo-IP)/(Dicidths)
Roep.   Hospital Name & Place         I Bed  I Cumulative  I Admissions  I Out patient       Turn  | Bed          Avg.Len  | Out Patient
Code                  I               | Capa-| Inpatient   I during past I Consultants   | Over    Occupancy | of Stay  | Per Bed day
| city | days during | 6 months     | (New & Repeat)|  Rate    Rate
past 6 nmthhl                      I
2101  COX#UUITY ROSPITAL                40         6797          1128          70065        0.39       93.88        5.96      10.31
AH4ABOODADAD
2102  C0ITUNrTr ROSPITAL                 30        2860           725           46476       3.60       52.67        4.01      16.25
JANGYA
2103  COUYNtIT  HOSPITAL                30         5888          1545           45783      -0.32      108.43       4.10        7.78
ERHUUAM PET
2104  CONMITY ROSPITAL                  30          771           219           15634      21.67       14.20       3.59       20.28
130       16316          3617          177958       2.06       69.34        4.65      10.91
2201  DIST. HOSPITAL                   210        34135          2951          169850       1.43       89.81      12.58        4.98
-
2202  COUUUMITY ROSPITAL                30         1069           146           25994      36.34       19.69        8.91      24.32
SATTUPALLI
2203  COXUUITY BOSPITAL                 46         2884           511           18259      11.55       34.64        6.12       6.33
PHR= BALLI
2204  COXYUNITY HOSPITAL                30         4783           610          21667        1.23       88.08        9.06       4.53
OTNAGMUD F
316       42871          4218          235770       3.74       74.95       11.19       5.50
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__---------------------
2301  DIET. HOSPITAL                   180        28883          5396           85320       0.72       88.65       5.60        2.95
RUAlooDA
2302  COU RnITY HOSPITAL                44         8687          2126          100492      -0.40      109.08        4.80      11.57
SURTAPXT
2303  COUNITY HOSPITAL                  30         7546          1711          70093       -1.25      138.97       4.47        9.29
DEVARA KORDA
2304  COUUUbITY HOSPITAL                30         6106          1163           41697      -0.58      112.45       5.28        6.83
R3APETA
2305  COUUITY  OSPITAL                  30         3579           688          41859        2.91       65.91       5.64       11.70
314       54301         11084          339461       0.19       96.42        5.24       6.19
n-



A.P.VAIDYA VIDHANA PARISHAD, HYDERABAD
HOSPITAL EFFICIENCY INDICATORS  FOR THE PERIOD        1/94 TO 06/94
Hosp.   Hospital Name    Beds    CLINICAL SERVICES               I EMERGENCY SERVICE INDEX         DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES              I   NON CLINICAL SERVICES
Code    & Place                  I---_-__-      -I --------------   --------                             ---------------------  -   I---------------------------
I  j  IV oof     # of I    of E Emergency- I Emergency-   |# of    1   of          o # of    0 of |# of  I   of     k of  1    1 ofl
I Major I Major I Deli-| Deli-I OP Ratio   I IP Ratio          Imaging   I & EM I Labor-   Lab. I Post  IPm to  I post- Iinfe-I
I Surg. I surg. I yeri-I ver- I              I               I 6Electroj Tests  I atory  I Tests| mort- lAdmn.  I opr.  Iction|
I I     I to    I ies  I ies  I              I               IMedical  I to Admnj Tests  j to   I ems  I            I case  lacqd.1
I       | Admn. I       | to   I                              Tests     I         I        I Admn I (Pm)  | I         tata- linthel
I  I   I  I     I Admn.1             I       I            I              I         I      I        I       I  lity   IHosptlI
101  DISTRICT HOSPITAL    230    608    18.55    404    12.32           0.003        0.050       2082      63.51    27578   841.31   802   24.47    1.80    0.00
SRIKAKULAM
201  DISTRICT HOSPITAL    150    505    14 .24    597    16.84          7.410       40.720           5      0.14    15760   444.44   103    2.90    0.00    0.00
VIZIANAGARAM
401  DISTRICT HOSPITAL    250    473    13.55    249        7.13        0.001        0.047       4716      135.1    37462   1073.1   139    3.98    0.00    0.00
RAJAHMUNDRY
402  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   70   1626   151.41        75     6.22        0.000        0.014        249      20.65      2592   214.93    21    1.74    0.00    0.00
AMALAPURAM
403  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30       54    14.32      18     4.77        0.006        0.239        296      78.51       837   222.02    29    7.69    0.01    0.00
RAZOLE
404  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   44    473    30.20    272    17.37           0.001        0.020        214      13.67    11636   743.04    59    3.77    0.06    0.00
RAMACHANDRAPURAM                                                                                                                                                                6-
405  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30    253    35.24    152    21.17           0.000        0.019         146     20.33      3636   506.41    16    2.23    0.00    0.00
KOTHAPET
406  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30        3     1.15      15     5.77        0.000        0.000           0      0.00      1064   409.23    30   11.54    0.00    0.00
PRATHIPADU
407  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30        2     0.22      32     3.58        0.014        0.291        143      16.01         0     0.00      9    1.01    0.00    0.00
RAMPACHODAVARAM
501  DISTRICT HOSPITAL   340   1673    22.13    915    12.10           0.020        0.574       3864      51.10    44128   583.63   220    2.91    0.01    0.00
ELURU
502  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   52    248    22.13    224  ......            2.260        2.020           0     .....      6007   .....      42   ....      0.00    0.00
KOVVUR
503  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   70    231    17.41    103        7.76        0.007        0.023        158      11.91      2021   152.30    30    2.26    0.01    0.00
TANURU
504  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30       10     1.85      30     5.56        0.038        0.250           0      0.00      3509   649.81      1    0.19    0.00    0.00
NARSAPUR
505  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30      49    10.94       71    15.85        0 .005       0.161         64      14.29      1434   320.09    25    5.58    0.00    0.00
PALACOLE
506  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30    119    21.96        83    15.31        0.031        0.000           0      0.00      4101   756.64      0    0.00    0.00    0.00
TADEPALLIGUDEM
507  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30    560   213.74    124    47.33           0.143        0.473           0      0.00      3301   1259.9    27   10.31    0.02    0.00
CHINTALAPUDI
601  DISTRICT HOSPITAL   338    522    11.13    987    21.05           0.055        0.111       1563      33.34    39924   851.62    75    1.60    0.02    0.00
MACHALIPATRAM
602  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   50       27     5.64    126    27.71         0.015        0.301           0      0.00      5899   1276.8    56   12.12    0.00    0.00
AVANIGADDA
603  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   50        0     0.00    129    19.43         0.008        0.566         92      13.86      8220   1238.0    12    1.81    0.00    0.00
NANDIGAMA
0*



A.P.VAIDYA VIDHANA PARISHAD, HYDERABAD
HOSPITAL EFFICIENCY INDICATORS  FOR THE PERIOD          1/94 TO 06/94
Hosp.   Hospital Name    Beds  | CLINICAL SERVICES                 I EMERGENCY SERVICE INDEX  I   DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES                   I    NON CLINICAL SERVICES
Code    & Place                     ------------------------ P       --------------------------I -I---I--------------               -   J----------------------------
t of  It of  I # of I t  of E    Emergency- I Emergency-   |    of    I t of   I c of It   of I t of  I t of  I t of  I t ofl
I Major IMajor I Deli-I Deli-I OP Ratio   j IP Ratio           I Imaging I I & EM I Labor- ILab. j Post  |Pm to  I post- linfe-I
I Surg. ISurg. j veri-I ver- I                 I               I &Electrol Tests  I atory  I Testsl mort- lAdmn.   I opr.  Ictioni
I  I    jIto    I ies  I ies  |                |Medical  I to Admnl Tests  Ito   j ems  j                               I case  Jacqd.1
I         I       IAdmn. I         I to   I              I               ITests     I         I         IAdmn I (Pm)   I          I fata- linthel
IjI               I        I       I  Admn    |          I               I          I         I         I       I        I        I  lity   iHosptl|
604  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30        89    13.86      71    11.06         0.000        0.000            0       0.00      6482   1009.7    34    5.30    0.00    0.00
NUZIVEEDU
605  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   50        13      3.13    138    33.17         0.000        0.000            0       0.00         0      0.00     0    0.00    0.00    0.00
THIRUVURU
606  AREA HOSPITAL         100    346    21.20    343    21.02           0.021        0.309           62       3.80         0      0.00    62    3.80    0.01    0.00
GUDIVADA
607  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30        43      5.62    195    25.49         0.024        0.163           36      4.71       3233   422.61    15    1.96    0.00    0.00
MYLAVARAM
801  DIST. HOSPITAL        190    278    14.69    200    10.57           0.038        0.253         1062     56.13    22254   1176.2   160    8.46    0.01    0.00
ONGOLE
901  DIST. HOSPITAL        250    755    14.69    144   ...*-.           1.020        8.410         3162      .....    28858   ......   174   .....    1.35    0.00
NELLORE
1001  DIST. HOSPITAL        270   2142    30.41   1156    16.41           0.070         0.694        2551      36,22   113221   1607.3   106    1.50    0.06    0.00
CHITTOOR
1201  DIST. HOSPITAL        350    940    30.41    978   ......           0.112        1.090         4783      .....    25777   ......   182   .....    1.67    0.00 0
ANANTAPUR
1401  DIST. HOSPITAL        235    504      4.86   1093    10.55          8.930        6.070          637       6.15      6620    63.88   324    3.13    1.38    0.00
MAHABOOB NAGAR
1601  AREA HOSPITAL         100    164    15.85       54      5.22        0.021        0.025         1431      138.3    13659   1319.7       0    0.00    0.00    0.00
KING KOTI
1602  AREA HOSPITAL          80       4      0.31    315    24.73         2.670       23.820          262     20.57       7676   602.51      0    0.00    0.00    0.00
NAMPALLY
1603  AREA HOSPITAL         100    342    12.63   1407    51.98           0.009        1.014         2200      81.27    17774   656.59       0    0.00    0.00    0.00
MALAK PET
1604  AREA HOSPITAL         105    109       6.18    342    19.38         0.140        0.000          681     38.58       8307   470.65      0    0.00    0.00    0.00
GOLKONDA
1605  S.B.B.B. MTY. HOSPIT 50    279    34.23    401    49.20             2.500       35.330          493     60,49       2562   314.36      0    0.00    0.00    0.00
SHA-ALI BANDA, HYD
1701  DIST. HOSPITAL        220    979    34.23    572 *     .....        1.480        2.100         2496     .....        685 *    -     ---       - 128   .....    0.13    0.00
SANGA REDDY
1801  DIST. HOSPITAL        302   1128    12.25    971    10.55           0.068        0.614         2854      31.00    15098   163.98   234    2.54    0.17    0.00
NIZAMABAD
1901  DIST. HOSPITAL        230    386       7.31    798    15.12         0.071        0.250         2263     42.88    19768   374.54    36    0.68    0.01    0,00
ADILAABAD
1903  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30        32      3.85    122    14.68         0.016        0.484          208     25.03          0      0.00    28    3.37    0.00    0.00
KHANAPUR
1904  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   40    274   129.86    168    79.62             0.093        0.578          588     278.7        388   183.89    41   19.43    0.00    0.00
NIRMAL
1905  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30    268    13.47    533    26.78             0.024        0.262          398     20.00          0     0.00    38    1.91    0 0.00    0.00
BHAINSA
to



A.P.VAIDYA VIDHANA PARISHAD, HYDERABAD
HOSPITAL EFFICIENCY INDICATORS  FOR THE PERIOD          1/94 TO 06/94
Hosp. I Hospital Name ]  Beds  ] CLINICAL SERVICES                 I EMERGENCY SERVICE INDEX          DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES               ,    NON CLINICAL SERVICES
Code    & Place                     - I-________ -___- ___--         ---I-------               -----------      ----I-------------- I------------
#[ #  I    o     IoE      oft  t  of   Emergency-    Emergency-   |   of     ot of    # of   I S of [          of    S a of    S t of  I    oft
I Major I Major I Deli-I Deli-I OP Ratio    I IP Ratio           Imaging   I & EM   Labor  I Lab. I Post  |Pm to  I post- Jinfe-I
I Surg. I Surg. I veri   yer- J                                I &Electrol Tests  I atory  I Testsl mort- |Admn.    a opr.  |ctioni
I       I to     I ies  [ ies  |        I                      IMedical  I to Admni Tests  I to   j  ems  I             I case  ,acqd.j
I       I Admn.          I to   I              I               |Tests     I         I         I Admn I (Pm)   I         I fata- linthel
I  I    I        I       I  Admn.|             I       I             I         I         I            I        I       I  lity   IHOsptlI
1906  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   50    149    15.82    262    27.81             0.139         0.598         827      87.79         0      0.00   177   18.79    0.00    0.00
MANCHERIAL
1907  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30        74    35.07      16      7.58        0.000         0.351           0       0.00      2233   1058.3    38   18.01    0.00    0.01
BELLAMPALLI
2001  DIST. HOSPITAL        257    854    17.21    548    11.05           0.000         1.770         560      11.29    12241   246.74   180    3.63    1.01    0.00
KARIMMAGAR
2002  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30    255    23.04    247    22.31             0.000         3.840           0       0.00      2142   193.50    39    3.52    1. 05    0.00
METPALLI
2003  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   40    360    25.33         73      5.14        0.000         0.000         247      17.38      2133   150.11    77    5.42    1.15    0.00
JAGITYAL
2004  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30    415    50.00    268    32.29             0.000         3.880          83      10.00       900   108.43    50    6.02    1.25    0.00
PEDDA PALLI
2005  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL   30         0      0.00     85    10.59         0.000         0.000           0       0.00         0     0.00      0    0.00    0.00    0.00
MAHADEVAPUR
2101  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    40    258    22.87          99     8.78        0.000         0.000         148      13.12      1836   162.77    37    3.28    1.01    0.00                         N)
MAHABOOBABAD                                                                                                                                                                            4-
2102  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    30    583    80.41    216    29.79             0.000         2.580          44       6.07        83    11.45    38    5.24    1.25    0.00
JANGAM
2103  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    30    351    22.72    316    20.45             0.000         0.000           0       0.00       668    43.24      0    0.0C    1.20    0.00
NARSAM PET
2104  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    30         0      0. 0      17     7.76        0.000         0.000         252      115.1       474   216.44    33   15.07    1.20    0.00
ETURNAGAR AM
2201  DIST. HOSPITAL         210    627      2.12    260       0.88        0.056         1.300         123       0.42      4443    15.06   184    0.62    0.00    0.00
KHAMMAM
2202  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    30         0      0.00      81     5.5$        0.001         1.020           0       0.00         0      0.00    36    2.47    0.04    0.00
SATTUPALLI
2203  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    46        25     4.89       82    16.05        0.008         0.153           I       0.00       945   184.93    40    7.83    0.04    0.00
PENU BALLI
2204  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    30         9      1.48    385    63.11         0 002         0.059           0       C.00       960   157.38    42    6.89    0.06    C.00
KOTHAGUDEM
2301  DIST. HOSPITAL         180   1114    20.64    963    17.8s          12.930         3.130        1963      36.38    10693   198.17   126    2.34    0.40    0.00
NALGONDA
2302  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    44    905    42.57    235    11.05             2.500        16.500         511      24 04      2026    95.30   118    5.55    C.19    0.00
SURYAPET
2303  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    30    863    50.44    431    25.19             2.4i0        18.70J          43       2.51      1969   115.08    41    2.4C    _.91    0.00
DEVARA KONDA
2304  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    30    453    38.95    203    17.45             4.070        31.150         141      12.12      7793   671.08    55    4.73    C.13    0.00
RAMANNAPETA
2305  COMMUNITY HOSPITAL    30        53      7.70      61     8.87        C.084         5.460           0       C1.1         0      1.C0    46    6.69    1.71    0.00
HUZURNAGAR
Ct



- 225 -
Annex 18
Page 19 of 24
TABLE 5: QUALITY ACCESS AND EFFECTIVENESS INDICATORS
%OF EQUIPMENT NORMS MET AT FACILITY
HOSP HOSPITAL             BASELINE
CODE NAME
101 DISTRICT HOSPITAL        37
SRIKAKULAM
102 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       46
PALAKONDA
103 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       17.5
PATHAPATNAM
104 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       57.8
NARASANNAPETA
105 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       17.9
TEKKALI
106 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       27.3
PALASA
107 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       14.5
ITCHAPURAM
108 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       5
BARUVA
109 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       40
SOMPETA
201 DISTRICT HOSPITAL        39.3
VIZIANAGARAM
203 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       30
PAR VATIPURAM
204 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       53
S.KOTA
205 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       8
GAJAPATHINAGARAM
202 M.CH. HOSPITAL           17.2
VIZIANAGARAM
301 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       33.5
NARSIPATNAM
302 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       37
ANAKAPALLI
303 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       3
ARAKU
304 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       6
PADERU
305 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       0
AGANAMPUDI (T)
401 DISTRICT HOSPITAL        52
RAJAHMUNDRY
402 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       27
AMALAPURAM
403 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       57.1
RAZOLE
404 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       13.2
RAMACHANDRAPURAM



- 226 -
Aimex 18
Page 20 of 24
HOSP HOSPITAL            BASELINE
CODE NAME
405 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         68.1
KOTHAPET
406 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         43
PRATHIPADU
407 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         16.9
RAMPACHODAVARAM
501 DISTRICT HOSPITAL          31.3
ELURU
502 AREA HOSPITAL              60.6
KOVVUR
503 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         11.7
TANUKU
504 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         27
NARSAPUR
505 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         17
PALACOLE
506 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         29
TADEPALLIGUDEM
507 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         7
CHINTALAPUDI
508 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         13.6
BHIMAVARAM (T)
601 DISTRICT HOSPITAL          49.8
MACHALIPATNAM
602 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         31.1
AVANIGADDA
603 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         23
NANDIGAMA
604 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         51.3
NUZIVEEDU
605 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         36.4
THIRUVURU
606 AREA HOSPITAL              21.9
GUDIVADA
607 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         15
MYLAVARAM
701 AREA HOSPITAL              25
TENALI
702 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         35.3
REPALLE
703 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         13.1
BAPATLA
704 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         60
NARASARAO PETA
705 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         50.3
MAACHERLA
706 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         19.1
SATTENA PALLI
707 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         4
AMARAVATI (T)
708 CIVIL DISPENSARY           4
CHILAKALURI PETA
801 DIST. HOSPITAL             50.6
ONGOLE



- 227 -
Annex 18
Page 21 of 24
HOSP HOSPITAL             BASELINE
CODE NAME
802 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          29.8
KANIGIRI
803 AREA HOSPITAL               16.4
CHIRALA
804 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          25.4
GIDDALURU
805 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          18
MARKAPUR
806 M.Ch.ONGOLE                  0
901 DIST. HOSPITAL              52
NELLORE
902 M.CH.(RS.MTY)HOSPITAL       59
NELLORE
903 R.S.PAED.HOSPITAL           14
NELLORE
905 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          43.2
GUDUR
906 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          15.7
KAVALI
1001 DIST. HOSPITAL              36
CHITTOOR
1002 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          10
KUPPAM
1003 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         21
PUNGANUR
1004 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          19.9
MADANAPALLY
1005 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          39
SRI KALAHASTI
1006 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          17.4
VAYALPADU
1007 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          17.4
SATYAVEEDU
1008 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          12.2
PILER
1101 DIST. HOSPITAL              36.7
CUDDAPAH
1102 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         26
RAYACHOTI
1103 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         41
PULIVENDULA
1104 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          75
PRODDATUR
1105 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          16.8
RAJAMPET
1201 DIST. HOSPITAL              54
ANANTAPUR
1203 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          50.5
RAYADURG
1204 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          18.5
GOOTY
1205 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL          9
KADIRI



- 228 -
Anne 18
Pa2e 22 of 24
HOSP HOSPITAL          BASELINE
CODE NAME
1206 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     28.4
PENUKONDA
1207 AREA HOSPITAL          56
HINDUPUR
1208 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     13.4
DHARMAVARAM
1209 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     15.8
TADIPATRI
1210 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     36
GUNTAKAL
1211 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     11
URAVAKONDA
1212 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     63
MADAKASIRA
1301 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     20
NANDYALA
1302 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     29
BANAGANAPALLI
1303 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     110
ADONI
1304 W & C MTY. HOSPITAL    70
ADONI
1306 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     50.2
YEMMIGANOOR
1401 DIST. HOSPITAL         39.3
MAHABOOB NAGAR
1402 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     53
GADWAL
1403 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     33
KALVAKURTHY
1404 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     49
NARAYANA PET
1405 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     40
SHADNAGAR
1501 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     18
TANDUR
1502 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     51
MARPALLI
1503 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL     13
VIKARABAD (I')
1504 COMMUNITY HOSPITA      4.1
GHATAKESAR (M)
1505 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL      5
VANASTHALIPURAM (M)
1601 AREA HOSPITAL          80
KING KOTI
1602 AREA HOSPITAL          43.9
NAMPALLY
1603 AREA HOSPITAL          56
MALAK PET
1604 AREA HOSPITAL          50
GOLKONDA
1605 S.B.B.B. MTY. HOSPIT   86
SHA-ALI BANDA, HYD



- 229 -
Anna 18
Page 23 of 24
HOSP HOSPITAL             BASELINE
CODE NAME
1628 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         2
BARKAS
1701 DISTRICT HOSPITAL          65.7
SANGA REDDY
1702 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         44.1
NARAYAN KHED
1703 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         19
A. JOGI PETA
1704 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         85.5
MEDAK
1705 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         19.8
SIDDIPET
1706 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         53
NARSAPUR
1707 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         55.3
GAAJWEL
1708 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         50
ZAHEERABAD
1709 M.CH. HOSPITAL             0
SIDDIPET
1801 DIST. HOSPITAL             50
NlZAMABAD
1802 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         56
KAMA REDDY
1803 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         51.8
YELLA REDDY
1804 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         41
BANSWADA
1805 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         50
BHODAN
1901 DIST. HOSPITAL             28.1
ADILAABAD
1902 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         10
SIRPUR
1903 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         60
KHANAPUR
1904 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         12.3
NIRMAL
1905 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         41
BHAINSA
1906 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         42
MANCHERIAL
1907 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         18.8
BELLAMPALLI
1908 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         13.1
UTNOOR
1909 M.CH. HOSPITAL             0
NIRMAL
2001 DIST. HOSPITAL             51
KARIMNAGAR
2002 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         11.5
METPALLI
2003 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL         16.4
JAGITYAL



- 23U -
Annex 18
Page 24 of 24
HOSP HOSPITAL           BASELINE
CODE NAME
2004 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       17
PEDDA PALLI
2005 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        9
MAHADEVAPUR
2101 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        42
MAHABOOBABAD
2102 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        70
JANGON
2103 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        6
NARSAM PET
2104 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        2.6
ETURNAGARAM
2201 DIST. HOSPITAL            33.5
KHAMMAM
2202 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        12.2
SATTUPALLI
2203 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        36
PENU BALLI
2204 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        17.5
KOTHAGUDEM
2205 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        37
BADRACHALAM (T)
2301 DIST. HOSPITAL            42.2
NALGONDA
2302 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        74
SURYAPET
2303 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL       10
DEVARA KONDA
2304 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        17.7
RAMANNAPETA
2305 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        23.4
HUZURNAGAR
2306 AREA HOSPITAL             47
NAGARJUNASAGAR (T)
2307 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        46.3
MIRYALAGUDA (T)
2308 COMMUNITY HOSPITAL        5
BHONGIR (T)
AVERAGE PERCENTAGE(%) OF    30.11%
A. P. V. V. P. HOSPITALS



- 231 -
Annex 19
Page 1 of 4
Supervision Plan
General Routine Supervision
1.        The core of the routine supervision process will be the six-monthly Bank supervision
missions. An indispensable basis for this will be the six-monthly progress report to be submitted
by APVVP and the Department of Health Medical and Family Welfare of GOAP. The large,
costly and complex civil works component will be covered by a special extra system of locally-
based supervision undertaken by APHMHIDC.
2.        Mission Freguency. Scheduling, Programs. Regular Bank supervision missions will
visit the project approximately every six months. Thus if the project is launched in early 1995,
supervision missions would be scheduled between April and May, 1995 and between October
and November, 1995; and so on for each year of the project.
3.        On each supervision mission the project coordinator (the Commissioner of APVVP)
will present a six-monthly progress report on the status of implementation for review and
discussion. The Managing Director of APHMHIDC will also make a presentation about the
progress of civil works component to be incorporated in an overall progress report. The
Secretary, and in his absence, the Joint Secretary of the Department of Health, Medical and
Family Welfare will update the mission on the progress on policy issues of the project.
4.        Each supervision mission will include field trips visiting a sample of district, area
and community hospitals. The mission will be appropriately staffed as discussed below. Tribal
areas in every state will be visited at least once every year. During yearly mission visits, and
about once every six months, a tribal specialist will visit a sample of project sites and facilitate
the six monthly supervision missions.
5.        Composition of Missions. The missions will be led by the Bank task manager and
will include as appropriate at the time, specialists in hospital management, public health, hospital
equipment matters, economics, general management training, IEC and tribal issues and MIS.
Specialists may also visit the states separately and individually by prior arrangement between the
task manager and APVVP and the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare. In
addition, required specialists in other areas may occasionally be included in missions as needed.
6.        Additional Missions. In addition to the above, the task manager may visit AP with
or without specialist colleagues, in between routine supervision missions as needed for trouble-
shooting or emergencies, or during the first year of the project in order to help ensure that
project implementation gets off to a smooth start. The task manager may also, by prior
arrangement with APVVP and the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare, authorize
individual specialists to make separate between-mission visits to AP.



- 232 -
Annex 19
Page 2 of 4
7.         Supervision of Policy Reforms: Six monthly supervision will monitor compliance
of the Policy Reform program. An economist and a management specialist will be assigned
responsibility during supervision missions to monitor compliance and progress on policy matters.
8.         Special Arrangements for Civil Works. The civil works component is complex and
costly and covers more than 150 hospitals of varying size. It therefore cannot be adequately
supervised in the field by an architect visiting twice a year for a couple of weeks. A pyramidal,
locally-based system of field monitoring for this component will therefore supplement the
supervision arrangements described above. There will be three layers, as follows:
(a)  The first layer will be the maintenance of a civil works archive in the Human
Resources Unit of the Bank's Delhi office, under the day-to-day supervision of one
of the staff members. APVVP/APHMHIDC will send to this archive particulars of
each hospital for renovation and extension for which construction begins. This will
include final as-built drawings and contracts entered into for renovations and
extensions.
(b)  The second layer will consist of local consultant architects who will report to the
project task manager and will:
(i)   review new arrivals in the archives once a month or once every two months
as necessary depending on the volume of arrivals, and screen them for any
departures from criteria or other features agreed upon at appraisal;
(ii)   in some cases, just prior to the regular Bank supervision missions and under
a briefing from the mission leader, visit the state to: (a) discuss cases
departing from criteria set out in the technical manual with the Managing
Director of APHMHIDC and the Commissioner of APVVP; and (b) make
site visits to an appropriate sample of district, area and community hospitals
departing from criteria;
(iii)  after these visits, report findings to the Commissioner of APVVP and the
Managing Director APHMHIDC and to the regular mission architect at the
start of the supervision mission, as well as filing a report of the findings in
the project archives.
(c)  The third layer will consist of the regular supervision missions. At the start of each
mission, the mission architect will review the reports of the local architect
consultants and discuss them with APWP and APHMHIDC. The architect will then
make site visits, in the state visited by the mission, to any identified problem
buildings plus a random sample, drawn by him/her, of the buildings reviewed by
the local consultants during the previous six months.
8.         Six-Monthly Project Progress Report: This will report on the Performance Indicators



- 233 -
Annex 19
Page 3 of 4
highlighted in Annex 18. Corresponding computer software will be provided to the APVVP for
use in report preparation. The format will be followed as is for the first year of the project. It
will then be evaluated by APVVP in time for the third supervision mission, discussed at the joint
meeting, and revised as necessary by agreement between APVVP and the mission team.
The Mid-Term Project Review
9.        The Mid-Term Review of project progress will be carried out by an IDA mission
and APVVP, with a separate sub-review by the Department of Health, Medical and Family
Welfare, and submitted to IDA approximately half way through the project period; if the project
is launched in early 1995, this point would be approximately early 1998. The entire review
process should take two to three months. The findings of the review would then be discussed
during the next regular supervision mission. This mission would first hold a general meeting
with APVVP and the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare to discuss the findings
of the Review.
10.       The principal aim of the Mid-Term Review is to determine if there are any major
problems or issues in the project which necessitate re-thinking the original project design and
making mid-course corrections. It also may be used for a preliminary evaluation of the impact
of the project, if the project has progressed sufficiently to expect any impact.
11.       The Mid-Term Review will consist of an internal stocktaking from the project
records and MIS of the progress of project activities as measured against the original program
and time schedule set out in the SAR and Implementation Plan (see Annex 17) plus optimal
additional parts as appropriate. Notes should be included on the status of fulfillment of project
agreements and covenants, on the results of the evaluation of a management review, project's
policy reforms aspects such as cost recovery policies, and on progress with the strategies for
improving services to tribal groups. The stocktaking may also include indicators of the burden
of disease and epidemiology.
12.       A final Mid-Term Review Report will be submitted to IDA and discussed with the
following supervision mission. It should highlight any major problems, issues, bottlenecks or
delays in the project execution and the prospects for resolving them and completing the project
on time.
13.       The Mid-Term Review may be extended beyond those issues discussed above if this
is considered appropriate and useful. APVVP and the Department of Health Medical and Family
Welfare would decide upon the full review content, in consultation with IDA, at the beginning
of planning for the review. Further elements of the review could include:



- 234 -
Annex 19
Page 4 of 4
(a)  a management audit of APVVP;
(b)  a repeat of the beneficiary social assessment and training and communicationneeds
assessments carried out as part of project preparation;
(c)  special in-depth evaluative studies of the private health sector, workforce issues etc.:
(d)  reviews of project progress by an external agency. However, this would be at the
discretion of APVVP.
Role of the Resident Mission
14.       The human resources group of the New Delhi office has been strengthened to carry
out an increasing share of the supervision work for human resources projects in India. This
group will play an important role in this project. First, our senior public health adviser in Delhi
may be asked to follow-up on fundamental issues. Our local public health specialist in Delhi will
help monitor the project on a regular basis, follow-up on key implementation issues, and trouble
shoot in the field, as needed. He/she will be assisted by a local staff specializing in the
administration of projects. Procurement issues and guidance will be handled by the Delhi Office
Procurement and Accounting Group. That same group will handle accounting, auditing,
disbursement, and flow of funds issues. These actions will be part of the overall supervision
program noted above.



- 235 -
ANNEX20
Page 1 of 1
FORECAST OF EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
Expenditures              Disbursements        Cumulative        Semester
as % of     From Appraisal
IDA Fiscal Year         Semester  Cumulative    Semester  Cumulative /b       Total            Date
--------------------------------- US$ Million --------------------------------
FY95
Ist (Jul 94 - Dec 94) /a         4.27        4.27         3.00           3.00       0%                1
2nd (Jan 95 - Jun 95)            4.27         8.54        1.00            4.00      3%                2
FY96
Ist (Jul 95 - Dec 95)            8.50        17.04        4.00           8.00       6%                3
2nd (Jan 96 - Jun 96)            8.50        25.54        5.30           13.30      10%               4
FY97
ist (Jul 96 - Dec 96)           14.29       39.83         5.20           18.50      14%               5
2nd (Jan 97 - Jun 97)           14.29        54.12        10.60          29.10      22%               6
FY98
Ist (Jul 97 - Dec 97)           20.15       74.27        10.70          39.80       30%               7
2nd (Jan 98- Jun 98)            20.15        94.41       10.70           50.50      38%               8
FY99
Ist (Jul 98 - Dec 98)           17.67       112.09       10.60          61.10       46%               9
2nd (Jan 99 - Jun 99)           17.67       129.76       10.60           71.70      54%              10
FY2000
1st (Jul 99 - Dec 99)            8.26       138.02       15.90          87.60       66%              11
2nd (Jan 2000 - Jun 2000)        8.26       146.28        5.30           92.90      70%               12
FY2001
Ist (Jul 2000 - Dec 2000)        6.31       152.59       15.90          108.80      82%              13
2nd (Jan 2001 - Jun 2001)        6.31       158.90       16.00          124.80      94%               14
FY2002
Ist (Jul 2001 - Dec2001)         0.00       158.90        8.20          133.00     100%              15
Closing Date: September 20, 2001
a/: Including Special Account and Retroactive Financing
b/: Disbursement projections based on Regional Profiles for similar type projects






- 236 -
Annex 21
Page 1 of 1
Documents Available in Proiect File
1.    Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (APVVP) Project Report: Project for the
Development of the Secondary Level Health Care System in Andhra Pradesh - January 1994.
2.    APVVP Project Report: Project for the Development of the Secondary Level Health
Care System in Andhra Pradesh - 7 November 1993.
3.    APVVP: Cost Estimates for Renovations/Upgradations/Extensions/Staff Quarters -
November 1993.
4.    APVVP: Brief Report on Health Sector Analysis in Andhra Pradesh - 1992.
5.    APVVP: Site Survey of Public Secondary Hospitals in Andhra Pradesh (23 Volumes).
6.    APVVP: Note on Organization and Achievements - 1992.
7.    APVVP: Proceedings of Workshop on Norms for Hospital Services and Equipment -
November 1993.
8.    APVVP: Approved Drug List and Hospital Formulary - 1990.
9.    Concept Paper of the Project for the Strengthening and Upgradation of the First Line
Referral Hospitals in Andhra Pradesh - Government of India, 1993.
10.  IDA Preparation Mission: Andhra Pradesh District Health Systems Project, Back to
Office Report - July 1993.
11.  IDA Preparation Mission: Andhra Pradesh District Health Systems Project, Back to
Office Report - November 1993.
12.  IDA Preappraisal Mission: Andhra Pradesh District Health Systems Project, Back to
Office Report - February 1994.
13.   A Review of the Private Health Sector in Andhra Pradesh - G. Kumara Swamy
Reddy, January 1994. Study undertaken as part of project preparation.
14.   The Beneficiary/Social Assessment Study - ASCI, 1994 (forthcoming).
15.   Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness Study - ASCI, 1994 (forthcoming).



