Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25204
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26630)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 90.7 MILLION (US$ 133 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
ENDIA
FOR A
ANDHRA PRADESH FIRST REFERRAL HEALTH SYSTEM PROJECT
12/20/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 25, 2002)
Currency Unit           =  Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. 48 2                   US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0207                 Rs. 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP             Andhra Pradesh
APFRHSP        AP First Referral Health System Project
APHMHIDC       AP Health & Medical Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation
APIIC          AP India Infrastructure Corporation
APVVP          Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad
GOAP           Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI            Goverrnent of Indca
HAC            Hospital Advisory Committee
HMIS           Health Management Information System
HNP            Health, Nutrition & Population
IDA            Intemational Development Association
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
MIS            Management Information System
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SPC            Strategic Planning Cell
Vice President:                         Mieko Nishiniizu
Country Director:                       Michael Carter
Sector Director:                        Charles C. Griffin
Task Manager:                           Maj-Lis A. Voss



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FIRST REFERRAL HEALTH SYSTEMS PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Perfornance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                     9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   14
10. Additional Information                                                            24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 37






I Project ID PO 10489                                     Project Name: AP 1 ST REF. HEALTH S
Team Leader: Tawhid Nawaz                                TL Unit: HDNHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date December 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: AP I ST REF. HEALTH S                         L/C/TFNumber- IDA-26630
Country/Department INDIA                                                Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: Health (98%); Sub-national government
administration (2%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.   06/28/1993                             Effective: 03/01/1995
Appraisal:  10/03/1994                               MTR: 05/13/1998            06/19/1998
Approval:  12/01/1994                              Closing. 03/31/2002         06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA/GOVERNMENT OF AP
Other Partners-
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Joseph D. Wood
Country Manager:     Michael Carter                            Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Anabela Abreu                             Richard Lee Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:  Tawhid Nawaz                              Tawhid Nawaz
ICR Primary Author   Maj-Lis A. Voss
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome HS
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance S
Borrower Performance S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were to assist the Government of Andhra Pradesh (AP) to: (i) improve
efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and institutional development; and
(ii) improve systems performance of health care through improvements in the quality, effectiveness and
coverage of health services at the secondary level to better serve the neediest sections of society. The
ultimate goal of the project was to improve the health status of the people of AP, especially the poor and
underserved, by reducing mortality, morbidity and disability. The project was to provide a first step
towards the creation of a replicable state model that would subsequently be used to reorient the health
systems in other states in India.
The development objectives of the project were realistic and consistent with the priority needs in the health
sector in Andhra Pradesh. At the start of this project, preventable mortality, morbidity and disability were
high in the state. Life expectancy at birth was about 60 years, and infant mortality 80 per thousand live
births. As in the rest of India, communicable diseases including malaria, filaria, tuberculosis, leprosy and
sexually transmitted diseases continued to be major public health problems. Matemal mortality was
unacceptably high, and acute respiratory and diarrheal diseases continued to be the major causes of child
mortality. In addition, the state was moving into an epidemiological transition with the double burden of
significant non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, and cataract
blindness. Moreover, there were considerable differences in the health status of rural and urban
populations, males and females and between the general populations and scheduled castes and tribes
(SC/STs).
The Andhra Pradesh First Referral Health System Project (APFRHSP) is the first project to address health
sector issues at the state level. It correctly prioritized the state as the unit of account and shifted the focus
of operations from the center to the state level. The public health system in the state consisted of three
tiers: the primary level where basic health services are provided, the secondary level with first line referral
hospitals providing inpatient and outpatient care, and the tertiary level which provided more specialized
treatment and medical education. Improvements were needed in institutional and management aspects,
development of a strategic planning capacity, cost-effective means of achieving the best use of limited
resources, and setting up a monitoring and evaluation system to measure performance and outcome. In
particular, there was a need to enhance the overall size of the health budget, redress the imbalance in public
spending between the secondary and tertiary levels of health care, enhance user charges, increase
contracting of non-clinical services, safeguard the operations and maintenance component, and address
workforce issues.
The Government of Andhra Pradesh recognized the need to reorient its health system and there was strong
political commnitment to improving the health conditions of the state's population. Sector analyses were
carried out, including Brief Report on Health Sector Analysis in Andhra Pradesh. 1992, Burden of Disease
and Cost-Effectiveness Study. 1994. and Beneficiary/Social Assessment Study, 1994 to facilitate
preparation of the proposed project. Following the recommendations of the World Development Report,
Investn2in Health (1993), the project recognized the specific administrative, burden of disease and
socio-technical issues in India and included in its design a number of services that had not yet been
provided in any other International Development Association (IDA) financed project in the HNP sector.
Subsequent preparation and implementation approaches built on the on-going sector studies India - Policy
and Finance Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care Services (1995) and India - New Directions
in Health Sector Development at the State Level: An Operational Perspective (1997). The project would
provide a first step towards the creation of a replicable state model to reorient the health systems in other
- 2 -



states in India, addressing key sectoral policy issues in order to develop an efficient and effective health
system, particularly in poor and underserved areas. Start-up implementation delays were addressed by the
establishment of an autonomous agency to manage implementation activities: the Andhra Pradesh Vaidya
Vidhana Parishad (APVVP) would serve as Directorate of first referral and district level hospital services
in the state. The existing Andhra Pradesh Health & Medical Housing Infrastructure Development
Corporation (APHMEHDC) and Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) were
brough on board to manage the civil works program and procurement activities under the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
NA
3.3 Original Components
The project, financed with a SDR 90.7 million credit (US$133.0 million equivalent), consisted of three
components: (i) Institutional Strengthening (3% of base costs); (ii) Improve Quality, Access and
Effectiveness at District Hospitals (40% of base costs); and (iii) Improve Quality, Access and Effectiveness
at Area and Community Hospitals (57% of base costs). The project financed civil works renovation and
extension, medical equipment, medicines, professional servics and consultancies, training and workshops,
furniture, supplies and consumables, vehicles, salaries and operations and maintenance costs.
L. Institutional Strengthening (US$4.1 million). This component sought to improve the institutional
framework for policy development and to strengthen institutions and their implementation capacity. Four
key areas that were to be addressed included strengthening structures, systems and procedures; culture of
service delivery; resources; and training. At the APVVP level, the focus was to be on improving
management effectiveness, and at community, area and district hospitals emphasis would be on
strengthening service delivery management. A Strategic Plamning Cell (SPC) was created with the Project
Director, in his capacity as ex-officio Health Secretary, designated as the head of the planning cell. The
purpose of the planning cell was to monitor the critical issues in the health sector by commissioning studies
and organizing dissemination and sensitization workshops.
II. Improve Quality, Access and Effectiveness at District Hospitals (US$55.1 million). This
component sought to renovate and extend 21 District Hospitals and to upgrade their clinical effectiveness
and quality of services: seventeen existing district hospitals would be renovated and extended, and four
others which were functioning as area hospitals would be upgraded to district hospitals - these four would
be in districts which had distnct hospitals combined with teaching facilities and which were not under the
jurisdiction of APVVP. The clinical effectiveness and quality of services for the existing 4,600 beds would
be improved, and 1,000 new beds would be added. At the district hospitals, updated norms and standards
for clinical and support services would be applied, staffing norms would be adopted, and a system for
monitoring improvements in the quality of clinical care would be established through the adoption of a
quality assurance program. The capacity of support services would be expanded, and staff skills in clinical
and technical areas would be strengthened through training.
m. Improve Quality, Access and Effectiveness at Area and Community Hospitals (US$78.0 million).
This component sought to renovate and extend 49 Area and 89 Community Hospitals with the aim of
upgrading clinical effectiveness and quality, and improving the functioning of the referral system. Bed
strength would be increased from 5,051 to 8,300 at project completion. Staff quarters would be built in the
tribal and remote areas where accommodation for staff is poor. Several measures would be taken to make
the referral system more timely, effective and client-friendly. Special attention would be given to
establishing mechanisms to improve access for remote and disadvantaged groups. A major effort would be
undertaken to encourage tribal populations to make greater use of services offered at community facilities
- 3 -



while concurrently improving the quality of services. Updated norns and standards, a system for
monitoring, and strengthened staff capacity would be applied as outlined under Component II.
3.4 Revised Components:
The development objectives were not revised during implementation of the project At the mid-term review
(MTR), using a set of technical, operational and performance criteria, it was assessed that the project had
made good progress, and that the principal objectives of the project remained valid and achievable. It was
decided that a number of activities would be added onto the project: establishment of a hospital waste
management system, increased emphasis on disease surveillance, and upgrading ten additional secondary
hospital to the 150 planned initially under the project.
Emergency Earthquake Assistance for Reconstruction in Gujarat
Following the earthquake in Gujarat in January 2001, funds were made available to the Gujarat Emergency
Program by internal reallocation of the proceeds of the Loans/Credits under twelve projects, one of which
was this project. US$ 9.8 million has been utilized for construction of temporary shelters for people whose
homes were damaged by the earthquake, repair of partially damaged houses, reconstruction of fully
collapsed houses in the affected area, and related services on accounting and audits. Supervision reports
indicate that the procedures established for damage assessment, identification of beneficiaries and
implementation of the owner-driven housing reconstruction activities progressed satisfactorily through a
partnership approach involving govenmment, local communities, the private sector, and NGOs.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was designed before routine quality assessments were initiated. Thus there is no Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) rating at entry. However, for the purposes of this report, the project's quality
assurance is rated as satisfactory. The project was in line with the Bank Group's country strategy of
poverty alleviation in India and in supporting the Government of India's (GOI) efforts to provide an
enabling environment for growth while accelerating the development of human resources. In preparing the
project, several workshops were held to discuss, in a participatory manner, sector norns and policy issues.
The commitment AP showed in the preparation of the project and the efforts made to introduce systemic
strengthening of the health sector made it likely that the project would be implemented successfully.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective
The development objectives of this project are rated as highly satisfactory. It exceeded many of the targets
(see details in paragraph 4.2.2) and has achieved or exceeded its development objectives in the areas
of policy initiatives and quality, access and effectiveness indicators. Major contributions include: (a)
substantial strengthening of institutional capacity at the first referral level; (b) establishmnent of effective
institutional mechanisms in the public health sector beyond the first referral level, particularly in the areas
of better management practices, drug procurement policy, perfornance monitoring and service norns in the
health sector as a whole; (c) increased allocation of resources for the health sector, increased share of
resources to the primary and secondary levels of health, and larger resources for drugs and other non-salary
recurrent expenditures; (d) enhanced user charges for secondary level facilities; and (e) effective
contracting out of support services in all 160 project facilities.
In addition to strengthening the institutions and their planning capacity, including district level coordination
and management capacity, expanded access to health services has exceeded Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
targets with regard to the number of inpatients, outpatients and hospital beds. The increase in the number
of hospital beds in tribal areas has been almost three-fold. Hospital performance has improved
-4-



significantly between 1994-2001, based on data from the hospital grading system developed under the
project. Patient satisfaction with overall hospital services increased from 65% to 71% between 1999-2001,
and from 45% to 72% in terms of facilities and cleanliness. Independent evaluations undertaken have
shown that about 52% of in-patients are women, and 75% of beneficiaries are below the poverty line.
Among the in-patients using project facilities, 18% belong to scheduled castes and tribes.
Follow-on India health systems projects in other states and the primary health component of the Andhra
Pradesh Economic Restructuring project (APERP) have relied heavily on lessons learned from this project.
States implementing health systems projects, including Andhra Pradesh, have held consultations and
workshops at regular intervals to share experiences and lessons learned. Informal meetings have been
arranged regularly among states to share knowledge and provide advice on a broad range of implementation
issues. These formal and informal mechanisms have helped significantly in strengthening overall state level
preparation and implementation capacity. Other achievements and improvements in outputs are discussed
below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Institutional Strengthening through Policy Reform and the Development of Implementation
Capacity (Satisfactory)
With capacity building as the main focus, the project has made important contributions to the development
of a more effective health system in the state (Details are below in Section 4.2.2: Improving Effectiveness).
Today, APVVP is a more efficient institution than it was in 1994. The implementation capacity of the civil
works and procurement agencies has been strengthened substantially. The organizational structures have
been revamped to strengthen their management functions and technical oversight. A fully functional
financial management has been established, and the Management Information System (MIS) and
Geographic Information System (GIS) provide data regularly. Monitoring and evaluation is an integral
part of the project. Training centers have been established and training is conducted regularly. A hospital
ranking mechanism has been instituted under the project as a general routine practice. Third party
evaluations have been undertaken, and client perspective and feedback sought through patient satisfaction
surveys and other mechanisms.
District Referral Committees and Hospital Advisory Committees (HAC) have been created to provide
implementation support at the district level. With the participation of community representatives and
NGOs, the role of the committees is to review the performance of hospitals. This has resulted in
strengthened implementation capacity at the district level. Technical resources groups have been created to
support strengthening of hospital management capacity, including computer and MIS specialists,
equipment procurement and maintenance staff, and specialist committees for quality assurance.
The strategic planning cell commissioned studies and organized dissemnination and sensitization workshops,
and outsourcing and consultancies were used instead of hiring staff for specialized tasks. Studies included
the private health sector in Andhra Pradesh, suitability of present regulation of the private sector, burden of
disease and cost-effectiveness, epidemiological surveillance of selected diseases, independent evaluations of
hospital performance, and several rounds of patient satisfaction surveys.
Although not an explicitly stated project objective, a State Level Coordination Committee has been
established under the chairmanship of the Project Director to assist in coordinating activities with other
projects/programs in the health sector in AP.
-5 -



4.2.2 (i) Improving Service Access, Quality and Effecdveness at District Hospitals, and
(ii) Improving Service Access, Quality and Effectiveness at Area and Community HospitaRs (ighly
Satisfactory)
Improving Access.
These components surpassed their infrastructure objectives - 160 hospitals, compared to a target of 150 in
the SAR, have been upgraded and re-commissioned and equipped in accordance with agreed clinical norms.
Similarly, bed strength has increased from 9,960 to 16,664 compared to the SAR target of 14,000 at
project completion. The annual numbers of in-patients and out-patient visits have doubled, from 0.6
million to 1.2 million (compared to the SAR estimate of I million at project completion), and the total
number of out-patient visits have more than doubled, from 9 million to 18.2 million in 2001 (compared to
the SAR estimate of 13 million at project completion). Between 1996 and 2001, diagnostics tests and
surgeries have doubled, laboratory tests have increased by 80%, and institutional deliveries have increased
by 60%.
Independent evaluations have shown that about 75% of the beneficiaries are below the poverty line (2001).
Among the patients using project facilities, 18% belong to scheduled castes and tribes. Access to tribal
populations has been strengthened by improving integration with the on-going primary health care project,
and under the Primary Health Component of the Economic Restructuring project, a network of 8,500
Community Health Workers, covering all tribal settlements, have been trained to promote preventive and
curative aspects of health care and to strengthen referral links. Hospital beds in tribal areas have increased
from 240 to 610 compared to the SAR target of 560 at project completion. More women and children are
using the health facilities - women comprise 52% of inpatients and 50% of out-patient visits; children
below 14 years comprise 11% of both in-patients and out-patient visits; and men comprise 37% of
in-patients and 39% of out-patient visits. Hospital based information, education and communication
activities have been implemented on drug use, safe injection practices, waste management, and equipment
safety.
Improving Quality.
Indicators measuring patient satisfaction point to considerable improvement since 1998 with overall
hospital services and cleanliness. There has been a significant increase in the availability of drugs and
consumables at project facilities. The drug budget has increased from Rs. 5,000 per bed per annum at
project commencement to Rs. 8,000 in FY02. The number of essential drugs procured at project
institutions increased from 83 in 1996 to 103 in 2001 in accordance with the national drug list. In addition,
another 34 drugs are available, purchased with resources available at the facilities - the total number of
essential drugs available is, thus, 137. A total of 2,915 medical, nursing and para-medical staff has been
recruited. In terms of staff development, 1,711 doctors and 2,873 nurses have been trained in clinical and
management skills. Indicators for measuring clinical quality have been developed and are being used, and a
peer review system has also been introduced. About 7,121 staff have been trained in health care waste
management practices. Quality assurance groups have been established in all District and Area Hospitals
in four specialties. Provision was made under the project to strengthen the equipment maintenance wing,
and accordingly, Equipment Maintenance Training Centers (EMTC) have been established. A mechanism
has been instituted whereby regular maintenance and repair of equipment is carried out following an
equipment inventory. A recent review indicates that about three-fourths of the routine maintenance of
equipment is being carried out in-house.
Improving Effectiveness.
Contracting out has reduced costs and enhanced efficiency markedly. Support services, including cleaning
and facility maintenance have been contracted out at all 160 upgraded facilities, laundry and security
- 6 -



services have been contracted out at 80% of the facilities; and ambulance services at 100 hospitals.
Referral systems from the community to primary and secondary levels have been operationalized through
District Referral Committees and with the development of protocols and sensitization of health personnel.
These will be further strengthened with the on-going primary health care project. A Management
Information System for hospitals has been established and is functional. Hospitals are being graded in A,
B, C categories based on performance indicators. The number of hospitals rated 'A' has increased from 24
in December 1998 to 74 at project completion. Steps have been initiated, with the participation of Hospital
Medical Superintendents, to improve the performance of the hospitals, which have received a rating of 'C'.
Independent evaluations have been undertaken to validate the HMIS data and financial awards are being
given to the best and better performing hospitals. Measures have been taken to reduce absenteeism among
hospital staff, and to address the shortage of specialists; the APWP has begun to recruit staff on contract
appointment. User fees collected at 149 hospitals have increased from Rs 0.1 million in 1995 to Rs. 18
million in 2001 (April-December). People below the poverty line are being exempted from user fees on the
basis of a white card system, which identifies those below the poverty line. All funds are being retained at
the facility level, although at SAR this was to be 40% only. The funds are being used for minor repair and
maintenance. Although not an explicit component of the project, a health care waste management
mechanism is being instituted as an integral part of hospital up-gradation. About 6,990 staff has been
trained in health care waste management practices. Information, education and communication activities
have been developed to create awareness about health care waste management among health staff.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable: This assessment were not carried out at Appraisal
4.4 Financial rate of return
Not applicable: This assessment were not carried out at Appraisal
4.5 Institutional development impact.
The institutional development impact has been rated satisfactory. The Andhra Pradesh First Referral
Health System Project was the first project at the state level In the health sector in India addressing
systemic issues at the secondary level. It drew on the on-going sector work India: Policy and Finance
Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care Services (1995). The project was designed to operate
within the organizational framework of APWP. The objective of the implementing agency was to provide
access to adequate patient care in rural areas, reduce pressures on the overstretched tertiary hospitals in the
cities and mobilize resources from the market as a supplement to the state budget to improve, upgrade and
maintain health care institutions. The level of autonomy accorded to APWP in the areas of policy and
priority setting made it a suitable organizational base from which to introduce the measures that are
integral to successful project implementation. This type of autonomous organization was, at the time, an
innovation in the health sector in India, and it was envisaged that it would play a leading role in the
development of the health sector in the state. It was expected that this approach would provide significant
opportunities for institutional learning in the form of skills transfer and upgrading of organizational
systems and processes.
A number of benefits have been realized from adopting this approach. These include:
(i) Financial planning and resource allocation processes have been made more efficient; (ii) Revised
procurement procedures for drugs have resulted in better alignment between patient need and treatment
provided and in less wastage overall. This has been a successful approach and has been adopted as the
model for all procurement activities including equipment and consumables, excluding drugs, even for the
non-Bank-financed procurement of APWP; and (iii) Contract employment has been allowed, introducing a
greater degree of competition in the recruitment and selection process. This has facilitated the hiring of
- 7 -



doctors in areas where long-standing shortages in specific skills have existed.
As a result of the project, the capacity of APVVP to provide services at the secondary level has been
substantially strengthened, particularly with regard to management and the creation of district and facility
level advisory committees with membership from NGOs and civil society. APHMHIDC has been given the
responsibility and additional budget for maintenance of infrastructure, and the regional EMTCs created
under the project are provided a budget for routine maintenance of equipment. In addition, because of the
institutional capacities, which have been developed, software activities such as training, HMIS, referral,
quality assurance and waste management will continue after project completion.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency*
The project was approved shortly before state elections were held and the early stage of project
implementation was affected by the change of government. Periods of delays in the flow of funds to the
project, largely due to the state's difficult fiscal situation (see Section7.5), hampered progress of start-up
activities. As the project matured, and due to the autonomous nature of APVVP and its flexibility, the
funds flow mechanism began to operate smoothly despite the requirement for large amounts of funds.
The change of government brought about a new project management structure: The Comrnissioner of
APVVP was originally designated to function as the Project Coordinator. However, initial institutional
problems prompted the government to act quickly and an Empowered Committee under the Chairmanship
of the Chief Secretary was set up. A full-time Project Director was appointed to facilitate project activities
and monitor and coordinate with various Government Departments. The structure put in place had a
number of identifiable advantages: the Commissioner is the Chairman of the Governing Council of APVVP
and in its role he can effect any necessary policy changes required to support the project. The Project
Director is also a Secretary of the Health Department and therefore able to work closely with the
Departments of Health and Family Welfare and Finance to obtain necessary clearances in a timely manner.
In addition, the remarkable continuity in key personnel benefited implementation tremendously. These
developments facilitated considerably the successful implementation of the project, particularly in the last
three years. It also significantly strengthened integration of project activities with primary health,
reproductive and child health and several disease control programs.
5 2 Factors generally subject to government control:
User charges: Implementation of a user charge policy was delayed initially as a wider policy to include the
tertiary level needed to be articulated. Although the issue was, in addition, considered politically sensitive,
it is now fully implemented. As per the Government Order (GO), fees are collected at all hospitals, but
limited to those above the poverty line, and fees are significantly lower than in the private sector. The
government has permitted the project hospitals to retain revenues collected, and these are used mainly for
maintenance functions.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Procurement: Lags in procurement of equipment in the early stage of project implementation were partly
due to quality testing and clearance required prior to delivery to the respective facilities. It was also partly
due to a lack of knowledge about Bank procedures and clearances with regard to procurement An
equipment evaluation survey carried out in March 2002 found that 11% of the equipment supplied, in terms
of value, was underutilized due to lack of operations and maintenance skills. Immediate follow up action
was taken, addressing the specific sources of underutilization. Measures taken focused on improving
procurement practices, staff training, strengthening facility based equipment management and logistics
support.
-8 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing.
The total project cost over a seven-year period was estimated at appraisal to be Rs. 6,083.2 million or
US$158.9 million equivalent including taxes and duties estimated at US$8.8 million equivalent. IDA was
to finance about US$133. 0 million (SDR 90.7 million equivalent) or about 88.6 percent of total project
cost, net of taxes; the balance was to be financed by the Government. The direct and indirect foreign
exchange cost was estimated at US$27.5 million. In March 2001, US$ 10 million was reallocated to the
Gujarat Earthquake Rehabilitation Program. By November 2002, 94% of the Credit amount had been
disbursed, and the remainder cancelled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The project's sustainability has been rated 'likely' for the following reasons: (a) Strong political
commitment to health sector reform is reiterated in Government of India's Ninth Five Year Plan which
emphasizes the importance of state governments as determninants of India's success in reducing poverty. A
high priority is given to the health sector in the AP Vision 2020 which aims at maximizing the synergies
between different lending and non-lending activities across a wide range of economic activities and through
partnership with other donor agencies to strengthen impact. In addition, the on-going Primary Health
Component of the Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project will continue with some follow-on
activities and support inputs initiated under this project. Further, the Commissioner of APVVP's position
has been enhanced to the level of Director General, Health Services; (b) Institutional arrangements are
firnly in place and will ensure the sustainability of project benefits realized to date. The health
management information system, including a hospital grading system set up under the project, are the first
of its kind in the public health sector in India. The performance monitoring system is utilized by project
management to make strategic decisions on effective use of resources as well as for routine implementation
issues. Performance ratings are discussed regularly with staff. This has led to a healthy competition
among hospitals to improve quality of services. A geographic information system (GIS) was developed
under the project and is used by management to monitor activities. Independent validation of data has been
institutionalized through regular evaluations. Quality Assurance Groups have been established at District
and Area Hospitals in order to provide better quality care to the poor and disadvantaged groups. The
government continues to address the issue of manpower and staffing where vacancies and inappropriate
skill mix exist. The enhancement of clinical skills of medical staff, and the improvement in the functioning
of equipment have had a positive effect in the operations of these facilities and have added to their
credibility; and (c) Financial resources for the health sector have been substantially enhanced during the
past six years. The Government has stated that these trends will continue and resources for assets created
under the project will be maintained. User charges are being collected in project hospitals with the active
participation of Hospital Advisory Committees. As facilities have been upgraded, collection of user fees
has increased substantially, and is expected to increase further. Contracting out of support services in the
160 upgraded facilities has reduced costs and has markedly increased efficiency as well as patient
satisfaction.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The prospects for continued institutional and policy reforms initiated under the project at the first referral
level in the health sector are very positive. Activities will be continued under the APERP and AP Vision
2020. The major challenges now are: (a) addressing overall staffing issues, particularly at the Community
Hospital level; (b) addressing overall skill-mix at all facilities; (c) ensuring that management capacity of
APVVP is not overstretched by adding a large number of additional facilities without providing sufficient
technical and managerial staff; and (d) enhancing integration with the primary level and with the ongoing
national health programs.
g9-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
As noted in section 3.5, the project design was consistent with the Bank's strategy and government policy,
and was appropriate for achieving the stated objectives by assisting the govermment in improving the
efficiency and performance of the health care system. Project design took into account concems and
problems identified in the on-going HNP projects. Efforts were made to complement and consolidate
investments made by those projects by providing policy and implementation coordination with other health
and family welfare, disease control and nutrition projects. Intemational experience was considered in the
design and scope of the project.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision performance is rated as satisfactory. The implementation period benefited from a high
degree of continuity in responsibilities both from the Bank and the government. During the entire
implementation period, Bank task team leadership remained unchanged, and the government's team
leadership remained constant through the middle years of the project. When leadership change took place
towards the latter part of the project period, the institutions were in place and project implementation was
not affected. These factors contributed to a smooth supervision experience and improved follow-up and
timely action on implementation issues. Formal missions took place on average twice a year, but
supervision was virtually continuous as part of the Bank team is based in Delhi and the task manager and
selected staff visited project sites between formial supervision missions. Technical skills were brought in
over the project implementation period, including architects, bio-medical engineers, LEC specialists,
management specialists, health care waste management specialists, and social development specialists.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as fully satisfactory. The Bank and the Government of India
identified the project as a high priority at the time and assistance during preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. A very good working relationship was established and continued throughout the entire project
period among Bank staff and the Borrower and implementing agency. Supervision missions played a
supportive role in policy development and the advice, technical assistance and problem solving contributed
to the excellent implementation of the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's preparation performance is rated as satisfactory. The GOAP took the leading role and was
fully engaged in the preparation of the operation. During identification mission, it was mutually agreed
that the project proposal be temporarily set aside and that an analysis of sector issues be conducted. This
would include an analysis of the private sector, burden of disease and cost effectiveness study, and a
careful review of sector financing in order to develop a broader base of understanding of the health sector.
It would identify major sector issues, opportunities and constraints, and provide a solid base for project
development and its justification.
Project preparation and the dialogue on institutional development and policy issues progressed very
satisfactorily. The Principal Secretary of Health, Medical and Family Welfare and the Chief Secretary of
the Government of AP reiterated the government's strong commitment to a policy package of reforms
reflecting key sectoral development issues. In its "Letter of Health Sector Development Policy", the
government addressed the critical actions to be undertaken to safeguard the institutional basis and service
delivery package that are at the core of efficient and effective performance of the health sector. Several
- 10 -



studies were undertaken as part of project preparation activities. A workshop was held to discuss clinical
and service norms followed by extensive discussions between APVVP staff and the IDA team on the
findings of the workshop. The government subsequently prepared a revised project proposal.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performnance is rated as satisfactory. Since APFRHSP is a state level
project, the GOAP has coordinated the project, developed policy and technical guidelines, and carried out
major procurement and logistics planning. Sanctioning/flow of funds to the districts by the State
Government to the project agencies faced delays during the first year of implementation and during a brief
period in the fifth year of implementation due to fiscal difficulties faced by the state. This was resolved
satisfactorily and proceeded well throughout the remainder of project implementation. All legal covenants
in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement were complied with except for the covenant on
policy framework for the private provision of services which was in non-compliance in the early part of
project implementation.
Project expenditures were audited by standard GOI procedures. At the end of the project, all audits were
current. The last fiscal year statement of expenditures are due on December 31, 2002. As with projects
which became effective before 1998, little emphasis was placed on financial management in the APFRHSP
in the early stages of the project. The accounts were audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India (C&AG). The time allowed for submission of audit certificates was nine months after the close of the
financial year. This resulted in considerable lapse of time getting the accounts audited and obtaining
re-certification for audit disallowances was delayed until the next audit. The key financial issues,
significant audit dis-allowances, have been recovered from the disbursement requests. Grounds for
dis-allowances included claims for ineligible expenses, double claims, advances claimed as expenses, and
lack of supporting documentation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance is rated as highly satisfactory. As noted in Section 5.1, the first year of project
implementation was slower than planned due to start-up delays resulting from a lack of familiarity with the
Bank's fiduciary procedures in the Health Department and uncertainities in administration due to change in
the State Govemment. The government acted quickly to resolve the bottlenecks by appointing a Project
Director and strengthening the capacity of the implementation and civil construction agencies in supporting
the project team in its management of the works program and in responding to backlogs. These positive
initiatives worked well and project implementation and disbursements continued to pick up pace. Sizeable
increases were noted in expenditures, and the project team worked well. However, both expenditure and
disbursement figures were below SAR targets in the first year largely due to the inability of APVVP to hire
staff due to the statewide freeze on hiring in the Supreme Court stay order of 1996. In the second year of
the project, there were clear indications that project activities, including expenditures and disbursements,
had begun to pick up momentum.
At mid-term, the pace of project implementation was maintained at a high level except for a three-month
period due to fiscal difficulties and state elections. The MTR concluded that the overall status of the
project and implementation of agreed health sector development policy measures were satisfactory. During
the latter part of the project period, implementation progress was satisfactory or highly satisfactory as the
project entered a new phase. Focus was shifted to service quality and patient satisfaction; utilization of all
facilities; information, education and communication; clinical and management training; performance
monitoring indicators; and patient outcomes. Opportunities were strengthened for enhancing coordination
between the primary and secondary levels and integrating the roles of the primary and tertiary levels with
the objectives of the project and other Bank funded HNP projects. For the first time in any state in India,
- 1 1 -



substantial integrated improvements in the quality of services at the secondary and primary levels could be
envisioned. Much credit should go to the former Project Director who recently passed away. In
appreciation of the excellent work carried out, the government has recently renamed an important hospital
in Hyderabad as Nagarjuna Hospital.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated as fully satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned from the project relate to public health strategies, government policies and state
commitment, and institutional development Many new initiatives were implemented, and positive results
from these provide important lessons for other states and for making further improvements in the overall
health sector in AP.
Institutional:
State level health projects are more conducive to fscilitating institutional and policy reform than
CentraUy Sponsored Schemes. This is largely because states are the main implementers of health
programs and securing a full commitment from them is key to successful implementation and for
achieving improved health outcomes.
Managing structures at aJI levels has a filtering effect on other tiers/programs. Strengthened
management structures throughout the system need to be in place with adequate financial and
administrative delegation. Technical functions need to be decentralized in order to bring the client
closer. In the APFRHSP, decentralization to the district level and establishing and strengthening
District Referral Committees have facilitated quick decision making within the government structure in
the state. Empowering Hospital Advisory Committees has strengthened reforms -- AP has designated
these as advisory and development committees with administrative powers and accountability to
manage user fees collected at facilities. This experiment has enhanced local ownership and
participation in project development activities. An Empowered Committee and an Implementation
Committee were set up to monitor project activities and to co-ordinate various government departments
for timely implementation. Experience suggests that having an autonomous corporation, such as
APVVP in Andhra Pradesh, has helped in the implementation of reforns.
Rigorous Bank procedures result in good governance. Because of the rigor of the Bank's
procurement procedures and transparency, govemance has been strengthened. Bank procedures were
seen to produce positive results, and in many instances, the Health Department is adopting such
procedures for programs supported from its own budget.
Some aspects of institutional development need to be addressed for the endre health sector.
Experience under this project suggests that some areas of institutional and technical strengthening
which were not part of the project need to be addressed holistically, and not just be limited to one tier of
the health system. Institutional development in the areas of work force issues, HMIS, disease
surveillance, referral, and waste management needs to be addressed throughout the health system to
improve the quality of services.
Adequate human resources and appropriate skill mni are essential. Work force issues pose major
challenges in AP and other states, particularly at the community level hospitals which are the most
- 12-



difficult to manage. Absenteeism is high, and the lack of availability of specialists is an important
concern. Projects have only minor control over appointment and deployment of health staff. In AP, the
appointment by District Committees of contractual doctors has addressed this issue to some degree,
especially with regard to the general duty medical officers. However, more permanent solutions, such
as provider incentives, are needed.
Contracting out services works well. Contracting out of non-clinical services is more cost effective
than provision of those services by the government directly. Positive outcomes are evident, particularly
in terms of maintenance of facilities, waste management, and cleanliness and sanitary services.
User fees are essential for upkeep of maintenance functions, but their retention at facility level is
critical. An appropriately designed user fee mechanism, exempting those below the poverty line,
provides much needed funding for day-to-day maintenance functions. To this end, it is critical that fees
collected are retained at the facility level.
Technical and social:
Development of service norms is critical. Establishing appropriate service norms is critical for
enhancing clinical effectiveness. Establishing norms for each type of facility has strengthened capacity
in delivering health services, staffing, and in the selection and provision of medical equipment.
Strengthening of disbursement procedures is critical for timely implementation. Effective
management audit of project accounts needs to be ensured. This could be carried out by an
independent chartered account agency or internal auditors based on agreed terms of reference. Staff
training is needed in disbursement procedures. Reduction in the time given for submission of audit
reports would strengthen overall efficiency of disbursement procedures.
Monitoring performance is essendal for management decisions. Performance monitoring systems
need to be established based on measurable indicators of outcome. Utilizing quantifiable data to show
what effect project inputs will have on specific outcome indicators is critical. A system, which
monitors outputs from all facilities, with engagement of staff at facility level, should be in place as
early as possible. This aides decision making to rationalize project inputs and to focus on outcomes.
Patient satisfaction surveys are essential for feedback and improvement of service delivery.
Periodic patient satisfaction surveys with built in benchmarks provide important feedback from
beneficiaries. User perspectives are important to assess the responsiveness of the investment. Equity
analysis needs to be built into the user assessments to determine who are benefiting.
Document reforms to share experiences and promote learning. Many reformns are non-measurable
such as centralized drug procurement, hospital performance ratings, and creation of dedicated units in
the health department. These reforms need to be documented and disseminated to other states in order
to facilitate implementation of similar activities. Lessons learned from AP have proved to be very
valuable to other states preparing similar projects.
Communication strategy needs specialized experts or professional agencies. In-house capacity is
often inadequate in providing information and addressing behavior change communication. Specialized
experts are needed to incorporate new communication techniques and strategies.
- 13 -



Operational:
Synchronizing hardware and software activities is critical. A dedicated engineering wing with
adequate and competent staff is important. Better synchronization of the works program with
procurement, staffing and training is critical. Coordination with key state departments, such as the
electricity board and municipal affairs facilitates timely clearance and installation of supply systems.
Equipment procurement management and procedures need to be strengthened. Management of
equipment needs to be strengthened and relevant standards adopted for quality control and testing.
Equipment norms need to be established and staff trained in the operation and maintenance of
equipment, including the use of a maintenance and repair record systems. Input from users is
important. Strengthened coordination between various units of the Health Department facilitates
equipment management capacity. Building in-house capacity is important, and under the project, staff
from the equipment maintenance training centers are fully engaged in the routine maintenance and
repairs of the equipment supplied to the project hospitals. This arrangement has greatly facilitated
timely repair of essential equipment
Civil works cost escalations need to be addressed. Cost uncertainties are often greater in renovation
work than in new construction. Dedicated engineering teams are needed in place at project preparation.
Adequate facility surveys and coordination between the engineering and medical wings facilitates
management of cost escalations. Consultation with users of the facilities and focusing on local needs
enhance the validity of cost estimates.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Project Description
In 1994 Government of India negotiated an International Development Agency (IDA)(World Bank) Credit
of SDRs 90.7 millions, in various currencies equivalent to US$ 132.78 million, to support the Andhra
Pradesh Government in strengthening the Secondary Level public health care institutions in the State, in the
form of Andhra Pradesh First Referral Health System Project (APFRHSP), for a 7 years period from
March 1995 to March 2002. These institutions are under the administrative control of Andhra Pradesh
Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (APVVP) that was established through a legislative enactment in 1986, to
improve the functioning of secondary level health care facilities. The financial pattern of the project costs is
IDA Credit US $ 132.78 millions and Government share of US $ 26.12 millions.
APFRHSP was approved on December 1, 1994, the Development Credit Agreement was signed on
December 22, 1994 and the project became effective on March 1, 1995. The effective project closing date,
as per Credit agreement was 31.03.2002 and it was subsequently extended up to 30 June 2002, in order to
facilitate the receipt of some of the important medical equipment at project sites.
The ultimate goal of the project was to improve the health status of the people of Andhra Pradesh,
especially the poor and the under served, by reducing mortality, morbidity and disability.
The Project was taken as a first step towards the creation of a replicable state model that was subsequently
be used to reorient the health systems in other states in India. As envisaged, the Second State Health
Development Project (Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal), the Mahamashtra State Health System
- 14-



Development Project, Orissa State Health System Development Project, Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal
Health System Development Projects are the projects taken up subsequently based on the lessons and
experience of APFRHSP and suitably adopted to the needs of individual States.
Project Objectives
The Objectives of the Project were to assist the Government of Andhra Pradesh to:
i)     Improve efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and institutional
development; and
ii)    Improve systems performance of health care through improvements in the quality, effectiveness
and coverage of health services at the secondary level to better serve the most needy sections of society.
Components of the Project
The Project had the following three Components:
1)     Institutional strengthening through policy reform and the development of implementation
capacity:
i) Improving the institutional framework by strengthening sectoral capacity for development of policy;
implementing cost recovery mechanisms; and improving sectoral resource allocation. ii) Strengthening
institutions and their implementation capacity at APVVP, and Community, Area and District hospitals by
improving capacity for Project implementation through the strengthening of management capacity and
structure and through the provision of training for improving managerial skills and enhancing capacity for
equipment maintenance and management, and procurement of goods and services; strengthening,
monitoring and evaluation capacity including improvement of the hospital management information system
and improving supervision of civil works.
ID     Improving quality, access and effectiveness of services at District hospitals:
i) Renovating 21 district hospitals ii) Upgrading clinical effectiveness and quality at district hospitals by
updating and applying norms and standards for clinical, technical and support services; instituting quality
assessment mechanisms; enhancing staff skills in clinical and technical areas; providing updated equipment
and material; and expanding capacity of support services.
III)   Improving quality, access and effectiveness of service at Area and Community Hospitals:
i) Renovating/ extending 55 area hospitals and 76 community hospitals and 8 Specialty hospitals. ii)
Upgrading clinical effectiveness and quality at Area and Community hospitals by updating and applying
norms and standards for clinical, technical and support services; instituting quality assessment
mechanisms; enhancing staff skills in clinical and technical areas; providing updated equipment and
material; and expanding capacity of support services. iii) Improving functioning of referral by improving
linkages and referral between different levels and implementing referral and clinical management protocols;
and establishing an incentive system for users and staff.
- 15 -



The Project would finance civil works, equipment and furniture, vehicles, medical / laboratory and other
supplies, medicines, professional services, training, studies and evaluations, and incremental salaries and
costs on a declining basis.
Project Implementation Issues
Initially the Project implementation was entrusted to APWP due to its flexible organizational structure and
also the autonomous powers vested with it in administrative and financial matters. It was envisaged that
operating within an autonomous organization with the ability to introduce contemporary management
practices would deliver complementary benefits to the project and to APWP. For example, greater use of
the organizational flexibility in the areas of recruitment rather than reliance on the state's recruitment and
promotion machinery would hasten appointments to key positions in the hospitals. In addition, the
autonomous nature of the institution would facilitate the flow of funds to the project more easily than a
government at line department.
In the first year of the project, excellent progress was made with the preparation of the designs and drawing
for the civil works progranme with the close collaboration of Andhra Pradesh Health Medical Housing
Infrastructure Development Corporation (APHMH[DC) and APWP, the consultant architects and
'end-users' in the development of the schemes for each individual facility. The design task was particularly
complex because most schemes involved a combination of demolition, new construction and major
renovation in health facilities that must continue to function during the works.
For the procurement of equipment, drugs and other supplies, the project staff had written the technical
specifications and the same were reviewed by the Bank, revised by project team, resubmitted and later were
approved by the Bank. Sample bid documents were prepared for ICB and LCB procurement and
recommendations received from the Bank's New Delhi office were incorporated.
Even though the preparatory work was as per the schedule, the launch of the project was not taken up as
envisaged and no progress was shown in the first year of the project. The State Government had initiated
immediate steps to come out of this problem and on the recommendation of the World Bank supervisory
mission, had set up a Project Empowered Committee under the Chairnanship of the Chief Secretary in
May 1996.The Empowered Committee was created to facilitate project activities, monitor and co-ordinate
different Government departments in speeding up implementation of the project At the same time the
Government had also constituted a Project implementation Conmmittee under the Chairmanship of
Secretary, Health for proper implementation of the project.
Subsequent to the first meeting of the Empowered Committee in the month of June 1996, a full-fledged
Project Director, in the rank of Joint Secretary to Government, was posted in the APWP to implement the
project. Adequate financial and administrative powers were delegated to make the Project Director effective
in implementing the Project. A Bid Finalization Committee was set up under the Chairmanship of Secretary
(Health, Medical & Family Welfare) to review project activities, to expedite sanctions and approve
procurement of civil works & supplies and award contracts to Private Agencies for the execution of the
contracts. Adequate technical and administrative manpower was provided to the project for the
implementation of various hardware and software issues under the project.
The Government of AP budget document of May 10, 1995 for Financial Year 1995-96 had provided for
Rs.604.7 million for expenditures to be incurred under the project through Bank funding. The Project
Planning Appraisal Committee of the Finance Ministry met in the first week of June 1995 to approve the
opening of the project account.
- 16 -



The expenditure for the first two years was below the projections in the Staff Appraisal Report. But from
1997-98 the project picked up momentum and utilization of funds was higher than the budget estimates and
the SAR target. In 1998-99, an amount of Rs.1548.6 millions was spent as against the SAR target of
Rs.1500 millions. The expenditure in the subsequent years was Rs. 961.9 millions and Rs. 817.87 millions
respectively.
Annex I gives details of the Cost by Components and the details of the progress of expenditures in respect
to the SAR estimates.
Clubbing all the four phases of activity into single phase has steadily reduced the backlog in the civil works
program. The civil works executing agencies APHMHIDC and Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure
Corporation (APIIC) were strengthened with appointment of additional manpower for supervising the
construction activity by the private contractors engaged for the purpose. The processing time for giving
clarifications and settlement of claims of the contractors had reduced substantially, due to the experience
gained over a time. The civil works program had picked up the momentum from the year 1996-97 onwards,
which was the basis for planning other project activities such as procurement of equipment, recruitment of
staff and IEC activities.
Upgradation of clinical, management and equipment maintenance skills among the doctors and nurses,
enhancing awareness of clientele through sustained IEC, capturing the moods of the patients through
periodical satisfaction surveys, measuring the facility utilization through effective MIS, seeking qualitative
improvements in facilities by implementation of quality assurance programs, reactivating referral
committees in the districts to give impetus for the referral system, close coordination with the State
Government's Tribal welfare department in implementing tribal health strategy and though not explicit m
the project program, unveiling a bio medical waste management policy for the referral hospitals are the
key project components which have subsequently provided the much needed momentum to the project.
Achievements
Improving Access
*      160 hospitals as compared to 150 in the SAR have been upgraded and re-commissioned, including
the provision of equipment according to clinical norms.
*      Bed strength has been increased from 9,651 to 14,890 as compared to SAR estimate of 14,000 at
project completion.
*      Hospital beds in tribal areas have been increased from 314 to 610 as compared to SAR estimate of
560 at project completion.
*      Annual number of outpatients has doubled from 9 million to 18.2 million by 2001 (compared to
SAR estimate of 13 million at project completion).
*      Evaluations have shown that about 75% of the beneficiaries are below the poverty line. Among the
in-patients using project facilities, 18% belong to scheduled castes and tribes. Improving integration with
on-going primary health care project has strengthened access to tribal populations.
- 17 -



o      Women comprise 52% of in-patients and 50% outpatients; men comprise 37% of in-patients and
39% outpatients; and children below 14 years comprise 11% of both in-patients and outpatients.
0      Hospital based LEC activities have been implemented on drug use, safe injection practices, waste
management, equipment safety etc.
Improving Quality
o      The budget for drugs per bed per armum, was increased from Rs.5,000 at project commencement
to Rs.8,000, so as to ensure a significant increase in the availability of drugs and consumables at the
facility level
o      A total of 2915 medical, nursing and paramedical staff has been regularly recruited since the
project start. Gaps at higher positions were filled through promotions and contractual appointments. The
skill mismatch situation of the specialist doctors at more than 90% of the project facilities has largely been
resolved
o      1,711 doctors and 2,873 nurses have been trained in clinical and management skills.
O      Although not an explicit component of the project, health care waste management is being
instituted as an integral part of hospital upgradation. It is being implemented in all the facilities of District,
Area and Community Health Centres. About 7,121 staff has been trained in health care waste management
practices.
o      To provide better quality care to the poor and disadvantaged groups, Quality assurance groups
have been constituted at all the District and Area Hospitals in the four specialties namely Obstetrics &
Gynecology, Paediatrics, General Medicine and General Surgery.
o      Indicators for measuring clinical quality have been developed and are being used for OB&GY,
Paediatrics services.
o      A peer review system has also been introduced.
Improving Effectiveness
o      The contracting out of support services, including cleaning and maiiltenance functions, is being
introduced at 160 upgraded facilities, and the impact is being felt in terns of reported improvements in
patient satisfaction
o      Ambulance services at 100 hospitals have been contracted out. Contracting out these services has
reduced costs and increased efficiency markedly.
o      Referral system is being made functional with the development of protocols and sensitization of
health personnel. It has been strengthened by reactivation of District Referral Committees with the District
Collector as Chairman, which monitors referral activity from the P.H.C. level to the Tertiary level.
- 18 -



*      The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system that has been put in place is exemplary and is being
used in decision-making. As part of the M&E system, hospital utilization and activity data are being
collected periodically and are being used to rate the performance of each facility against specific targets.
Hospitals are showing improved grades from 24 'A' Grade in December 1998 to 74 in June 2002.
Financial awards are being given to the best performing hospitals.
*      Independent evaluations have been undertaken to: (a) Validate HM[S data, including reported
performance of hospitals, (b) Client satisfaction and (c) Training
*      User fees collected at 149 hospitals have increased from Rs.0.1 million in 1995 to Rs.18 million in
2001. People below the poverty line are being exempted from user fees. 100% of these funds are being
retained at the facility level and are being used for improving maintenance.
*      Health service delivery is strengthened in the tribal areas with the network of 8500 Community
Health Workers in all the tribal habitations at the rate of one per habitation. They have been trained to
familiarize with the APVVP facilities to strengthen the referral linkages
*      Increase in number of beds at hospitals in tribal areas from 314 to 610
*      Integration of the tribal strategy with the APER Project
*      The enhancement of clinical skills in ultra sound scanning & endoscopy techniques of the doctors
and also the reduction in the backlog in the repair of equipment to less than 3% have had a positive effect in
the functioning of these institutions and added to their credibility
*      Adequate resources for drugs, essential supplies and maintenance of buildings is being provided.
*      APHMHIDC is nominated as the agency for maintenance of facilities with annual budget
provision
*      Major & minor equipment according to norms at all the facilities are ensured as and when the
structures were complete
*      Hospital Advisory Committees were formed at all the facilities and delegated with the powers to
collect & retain user charges and procure emergency drugs and consumables.
Improving Institutional linkages
*      The State Level Co-ordination Committee under the Chairmanship of the Project Director
APFRHSP is continuously monitoring the overlapping issues and coordination activities of the other
projects in the department
*      The project is bringing wider benefits in terms of the improved functioning of the public health
sector beyond the first referral level, particularly in the areas of better management practices, drug
procurement policy, performance monitoring and service norms at the primary and tertiary levels
*      In addition, systemic strengthening of institutional structures under the project is being replicated
to the health sector as a whole
- 19-



Sustainability
The project has facilitated APVVP, to progressively mature and bring about systemic changes in the
delivery of first referral care in the State. More recently, the project has begun to better integrate its
activities with primary health care services, and reproductive and child health and several disease control
programs.
On the institutional side, the project mode of operations through a project management structure is being
gradually transferred to the APVVP. The Commissioner of APVVP has increasingly assumed the
responsibilities of the Project Manager in day-to-day operations. Both these developments will impact
positively on the long-term sustainability of the project.
The Project took number of initiatives for improving the performance of the hospitals under its control.
The APWP continues to encourage the best performing hospitals by providing additional monthly
budgetary allocation for procuring essential drugs and other essential needs of the hospitals. It also took
stringent steps to enforce discipline among the hospital staff by dismissing the services of the medical
personnel who were on unauthorized absencefrom duties and admonishing with reprieves like cutting the
incremental benefits to those who abstain from official duties and make personal gains through corrupt
practices. To fill the specialists gap in many of the hospitals, the APVWP impressed upon the Government
to get services of the specialists on contract appointment with certain laid down conditions.
While resources for secondary and primary levels of health care have been enhanced every year in the state
budgetary allocation, since the project became effective, the APVVP also got the concurrence of the
Government for implementing the newly structured user charges across all categories of hospitals under its
control. The entire amount collected from the user charges are being remitted to the Hospital Advisory
Committee (HAC) Account and will be utilized with prior approval from HAC for improvement of hospital
services in terms of improvement of sanitation, clean & green programme, electricity, water & drainage,
certain repairs of essential equipment and purchase of essential life saving drugs, if they are not supplied by
the central drug stores. However depending upon the ground reality, the HAC is empowered to make
suitable changes from the tariff of user charges.
Further the sustained EEC campaign initiated by the project, through internal and external channels, are
expected to increase the proportion of users, as they are focused on enhancing the image of the public
hospitals and ensuring their responsiveness to client needs, on behavioral change among providers and
patient's attendants, encouragement of rational use of drugs, improvement of quality of healthcare,
management of biomedical waste and provision of referral care by development of appropriate messages.
The referral system looks also encouraging where the district referral committees in the districts started
playing active role in coordinating the health institutional linkages.
The appointment of Commissioner, APVVP as Director General for Health and Medical Services of A.P.,
as a step towards consolidating the gains and coordinating all health activities in the State.
Borrower's Performance
Out of 160 hospitals taken up under this project, a total number of 159 hospitals has been completed and
one hospital is in the final stage of completion.
As the civil works are completed and handed over to the hospital authorities, the equipment for all the 159
facilities are also being supplied and made fully operational. The 26 facilities, which were transferred to
- 20 -



APVVP from the Director of Health in the mid project period, are also provided with equipment and
furniture, as per the decision taken at the time of Mid-term review of the Project.
The equipment maintenance and repairs arrangements are being fully established and are functioning
satisfactorily. The Equipment Maintenance Training Centers (EMTCs) are staffed as per the requirements.
There is no significant backlog of equipment repairs. The EMTC staff are fully engaged in the routine
maintenance and repairs of the equipment supplied to the project hospitals. The EMTC staff are also
entrusted with the supervision of the new equipment supply and installation processes. Essential spares and
parts required for the routine maintenance of the equipment, are continued to be supplied to these EMTCs,
which has facilitated fast repairs of the essential equipment.
Even though the Bio-Medical Waste Management is not originally planned under the project, the project
has initiated and implemented this component. Waste Management Committees at all the APVVP hospitals
have been formed to implement waste management programme. Most of the District and Area hospitals had
already submitted the authorization applications with necessary fee to A. P Pollution Control Board, as per
the Bio-Medical Waste Handling and Management Rules 1998. Training of a total number 7121 staff, at
all the hospitals, is completed. Supply of Waste management material is continued to be supplied to all the
facilities for the effective implementation of the program.
As a part of quality management process an integrated HMIS reporting system is operationalized at the
hospital level, which reflects comprehensive hospital activity. This format provides feedback on the
human resource, equipment, materials, drugs, revenue generation, and specialty-wise service delivery
including disease surveillance. The data structure has been incorporated in the computers of the DCHS
office to have a uniform pattern and seek reporting of all the hospitals under the district online.
The grading of the hospitals based on the hospital activity information had facilitated the APVVP
management to encourage the continuous "A" Grade hospitals, by awarding cash incentives to the
institutions and the Medical Superintendents. It also took note of the continuous "C" grade hospitals
initiated a process of fact finding and system correction steps by calling those Hospital Medical
Superintendents for discussions.
In line with the Over-all IT strategy of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, the Project has taken up the
Computerization Hospital Management Information System (HMIS) to serve as a pilot project at District
Hospital, Mahaboobnagar. The successful implementation of HMIS at pilot District Hospital have paved
the way for launching HMIS in other healthcare institutions, with the aim of automating all aspects of the
hospital's care delivery throughout the state.
As part of continuous process of improving clinical skills of the Doctors working in APVVP hospitals,
Endoscopy, Ultrasonography and Medico legal training programs are convened in the tertiary & super
specialty hospitals. To improve the managerial skills of the medical administrators, management
training is imparted to all the Medical Superintendents and the Resident Medical Officers at prestigious
management institutions. Further training is also imparted to doctors who are newly inducted into
secondary care institutions. A total of about 1711 APVWP doctors have received training supported by
the project, which is comparable to that originally planned. 2873 Nurses have been imparted training in
ward management and clinical skills.
The project had initiated quality assurance monitoring process in the clinicalfields of Obstetrics &
Gynecology, Paediatrics, General Medicine and General Surgery in the district and the area hospitals.
While the clinical process continues to be monitored with the help of action plan by the Quality
- 21 -



Assurance groups of the hospitals for individual specialties every month, the quality improvement
process got substantiated with the initiation ofpeer reviews by tertiary care experts in the concerned
specialties. Specialists from the tertiary care hospitals in the concernedfields visit the District Hospital
in their region as peer groups for reviewing the Clinical Quality Care practiced
While the Project provided the logistic support in the form of referral registers and cards to all the
health institutions the District Referral Committees (DRCs) started addressing the referral issues.
Monitoring of referral cases from PHCs, availability of referral cards at the PHCs and zonal mapping of
the PHCs and other APVVP institutions in the area, referral reporting system at PHCs, treatment given
to the referred patient at the higher level institutions, administrative linkages between the DCHS and
DM&HO, review of the IN and OUT Referral Cases and maintenance of referral information in referral
registers.
The project has increased the total number of beds in tribal areas from 314 to 610. The number of
outpatients and inpatients treated at these facilities has considerably increased from 5 lakhs in 1996 to 7
lakhs in 2001. The tribal strategy is now fully integrated with the APER Primary Health Project. All 8,500
community health workers (CHW), during their orientation workshops, have been familiarized with the
facilities available at APVVP hospitals to strengthen the referral linkages.
Since the upstage of the project activities in mid implementation phase, the project has undertaken
various evaluation studies and surveys involving external agencies to evaluate its performance by
different components. While the data validation and patient satisfaction surveys assisted in continuous
monitoring of the hospitals, the evaluation studies on Doctors and Nurses trainings have provided
feedback on their knowledge, attitude and practice and contributedfor improvising the content &
curriculum. The beneficiary assessment survey has thrown light on the utilization status of the hospitals
by the needy and under-served sections of the society and their mood to nod the users charges
implementation.
The national and intemational press has appreciated the progress of the project activities and initiatives. A
number of dignitaries ranging from Sri. Wolfensohn, President of the World Bank and Dr. Sri. A.P.J.
Abdul Kalam, the then Scientific Advisor to Govemment of India and Ministers of different State
Govemrnments and senior executives of different project states have visited the project and acclaimed the
developments under this Health Project.
The project has been able to utilize the proceeds of the $ 84.28 million SDR credit as against $ 90.70
million SDR provided by the World Bank. There was progressive improvement in the utilization of the
Credit as seen from Annex II, which gives details of SAR Projections and actual disbursement of the
Credit.
Limitations
However there were some significant limitations in the implementation of the APFRHSP. Management
issues, such as poor implementation capacity of the Civil Works executing agency (APHMHIDC) in the
initial years and delays in theflow offunds from the Finance Departments of the State Government to the
project at times hampered the pace of implementation. Several technical issues were not adequately
addressed. Delay in handing over of the existing hospital building to take up renovation works caused
certain problems and resulted in escalation of cost. The shortage of technicians such as Radiographers
and Lab technicians at area and community hospitals would be addressed at the earliest opportunity. A
full-fledged Information, Education and Communication program was not conducted initially on the
- 22 -



identified IEC issues, resulting in inadequate information to the provider groups and the users regarding
the progress of the project. There were lags in the procurement of equipment due to the quality testing
and clearance of the supplies to the hospitals and also due to inadequate appreciation of purchase
procedures of World Bank by various approval committees. However, the above limitations have been
overcome in the subsequent years.
Lessons Learnt
Due to large time gap that existed between the preparation of Project report and implementation of
Project during the course of which lot of deterioration in buildings had taken place resulting in increase
in the costs. In view of the original cost restraints, the consultants have restricted the planning of
renovation to the most vulnerable areas only and certain other renovations were necessitated to be
executed which had resulted an increase in cost of Civil works component. Flow offunds played a vital
role in the execution ofproject and difficulties were faced during certain periods.
However, the above initial setbacks were overcome, by taking up of all the civil works simultaneously that
had helped in timely completion of the Project. Preparation of construction programme and regular
monitoring the progress of work with reference to construction programme had telling effect on keeping of
progress of works. Built in Quality Control Wing had resulted in better quality assurance. Separate
Organization with in the health department, exclusively for execution of works funded by World Bank has
helped in successful completion of the Project on time. On the whole, the teamwork of all the staff involved
in this project resulted in successful completion of the Project.
The lessons leamt in the equipment procurement have highlighted the specific sources of equipment
under-utilization and specific actions that might be taken to address them. It is found during inspections
about 11% of the equipment supplied, in value tenns, found under-utilized. The specific causes for
equipment under-utilization include (i) Poor operations and Maintenance by the user groups, and (ii)
Non-availability of trained manpower to use the equipment. The APVVP will address these issues by: (i)
making someone in the hospital responsible for the equipment, (ii) relocating the excess spare equipment
from the hospital to other needy hospitals, (iii) adopting good procurement practices, (iv) providing logistic
support from the head office, and (iv) initiating user training programs.
The building of ownership and management capacity at the district and hospital level through
decentralization of planning and implementation of health care programmes has become a priority. Creation
of Hospital Advisory Committees with the local representatives as members and also District Referral
Committees with the District Collector as Chairman have helped to over come many of the implementation
issues. The importance of reliable hospital information data to monitor the hospital performance and to
know the people's expectations of the delivery of services at the public health care institutions is now
recognized. A comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation System for measuring performance in quantitative
and qualitative terms would now be an integral part of the system. Technical support and capacity for
hospital management are being strengthened through the establishment of various technical resources
groups such as specialist committee for quality assurance, MIS specialists, Equipment procurement &
maintenance personnel and computer specialist.
The need to mobilize a wide spectrum of stake holders, including the community, private sector and others
both within and outside the health sector have been accorded a high priority in achieving the goals
envisaged in the state government's Vision 2020 program i.e., "Health first". The Private Public
Partnership initiatives are taken up in the areas where there is a gap due to shortage of public spending.
Implementation of Telemedicine Services is one of the standing examples for public private partnership.
- 23 -



Lessons Learnt Workshop
A Workshop on "Lessons Learnt". during the imnplementation of the project was conducted on 29th and
30th May, 2002 at Ramoji Film City, Hyderabad. The global objective of the workshop was to disseminate
the most significant lessons learnt from the experiences during the implementation of APFRHSP in
particular, and from various other State Health Systems projects in general.
The specific objective of the workshop was to assess progress in the major initiatives and plan further
actions contributing to the correction of the mistakes any or to fill the gaps any, if identified in the areas of:
(a) project implementation; (b) monitoring outcomes and performance indicators; (c) rationalization of
infrastructure; (d) procurement; (e) private public partnership.
World Bank Team headed by Sri Tawhid Nawaz, the Project Directors from Punjab, West Bengal,
Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra Health Systems Projects, Project Director of RCH, Tamil
Nadu, dignitaries from Rajasthan, Orissa and Uttaranchal Health Systems Projects, Principal Secretary of
Health Department, Govermment of Punjab and various Government officials from participating states and
all the important officials of Andhra Pradesh Medical & Health Department, have participated in the
two-day workshop.
Performance Evaluation of the Bank
The assistance extended by the Bank contributed substantially to the starting up of the activities planned
under the Project. The project was monitored closely by various Supervisory Missions of the Bank during
the entire project period and these visits were very useful and educating. The missions, which visited India
had high level of commitment and provided guidance to the implementing agency and the borrower in
implementing the project. Problems were never allowed to accumulate during the project period. In fact,
the close interaction between the project Director and the World Bank Team Leader led to quick solutions
to the problems. All the Aide Memories of the Bank's mission were fully documented and contained the list
of agreed benchmarks. The borrower invariably responded to the reviews of the various missions by taking
further action and by furnishing the status report in clear and precise terms. Excellent cooperation existed
between the Bank staff at New Delhi & Washington, (USA) and Project staff during the implementation of
the project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
Future Plan of Operations: State level projects would need to look at issues beyond the project in the
larger context of the health sector. Management structures need to be improved and monitoring and data
verification systems established. User perspectives should be taken into account and equity analyses
carried out. Given the large investments that have that have been undertaken through the Bank supported
first referral (completed) and primary health care (on-going) projects, any extemally supported projects
should now focus on human resource development, including training and incentives for staff; address
govemance issues and behavior change among providers; and seek to improve health seeking behavior in
the community.
-24-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix         .        Pojted in last PSR      -           Actual/Latest Estimate
I Insbtubonal Strengthening         See next column: ActuaVLatest Estimate
(a). Improving the institutional framework for                           The allocabon for the health sector increased
policy development                                                       from 4 3% in 1997 to 4 5% in 2001, from Rs
7800 nillion to Rs. 16300 mllon, which IS
consistent with the Health Sector
Development Matrix (SAR, Annex 2)
The share of primary and secondary levels in
the overall health budget has been increased
which is consistent with the Health Sector
Development Matrix. The share of primary
and secondary levels in the overall budget
has been maintained at over 71% for the past
two years compared to 68% at Appraisal
(SAR, Annex 2)
User fees are being collected at all 160
hospitals upgraded under the project Data
from 149 hosp,ials show that collecbon of
fees increased from Rs 0.1 million in 1995 to
Rs. 18 million in 2001 (April - December)
People below the poverty line are exempted
from user fees, and all funds are retained at
the facility level and are being used for
day-to-day maintenance funcdions
A Strategic Planning Cell was set-up with the
Project Director of APWP, in hls capacity as
ex-officio HealSh Secretary, as the head The
planning cell monitored critical issues in the
sector by commissioning studies and
organizing crissemination and sensitzabon
workshops Studies included the pnvate
health sedor In AP, suitability of present
regulabon of the pnvate sector, burden of
disease and cost-effectiveness,
epidemiological surveillance of malana,
Japanese Encephalitis and GastroentenSts,
independent evaluabons of hospital
performance and patent satisfacion surveys
The SPC has played a crucial role in the
formulation and design of the primary health
component of the AP Economic
Restructuring Project and provided input into
informing on poricy issues in the health
sector in the state.
Although not an explicidty stated project
objecive, the establishment of a State Level
Coordination Committee under the
chairmanship of the Project Director has
assisted in coordinating adivites with other
prjects/programs in the heath sector
(b) Strengthening insttutions and their  See next column ActualLatest Estimate  Today, APVVP is more efficient organizabon
implementabon capacity                                                   than it was in 1996 Its structure has been
revamped to strengthen management
funcbons and technical oversight
- General administraUive capacity, including
personnel management, procurement,
contract management, and financial
management have been enhanced,
- 25 -



- Capacity to impart technical knovwedge to
enhance dinical effecdveness and service
delivery has improved;
- MonRtonng and supervision, and
management informaton systems have been
strengthened;
- Capacity for equipment management
Including equipment maintenance and
training centers have been established under
the project and are fully fundiona,;
- APHMHIDC is now a more efficient
instituton in the implementabon and
management of dvil works,
- District level pogragm coordination and
management has been strengthened,
- District Referral Committees and Hospital
Advisory Committees have been established
with the partidpaEon of community
representatives and NGOs,
- The poject has brought about
strengthening of insbitutional structures in the
pubric health sector beyond the first referral
level, particularty In the areas of better
management practices, drug procurement
policy, performance monitoring and service
norms; and
- Although not a stated component of the
project, the state level capadty for disease
surveillance of locally endemic diseases
(such as malaria, gastroententis and
Japanese Encephalitis) has been
strengthened.
Output Indicators:
jl  -'l' ndlcatorH !Matrt   |  -, ,-=1-sPmJeta in,IsPSR               ActuaULatest Estimate
11 & Ill. Improving Service Qualty, Access,  Improving Access:           Improving Access
and Bfectiveness at Distict, Area and
Communky Hospitas
Access:                             See next columni ActualLatest Estimate  160 hospitals, compared to the SAR target of
have been upgraded and re-commissioned,
induding the provision of equipment
according to dinical norms.
Bed strength has Increased from 9, 651 to
14,890 compared to the SAR target of
14,000 at project completon
Hospital beds in tribal areas have been
increased from 240 to 610 compared to the
SAR target of 560 at project completion.
The annual number of in-patients increased
from 0.6 million tD 1.2 million by 2001,
compared to the SAR target of 1 million at
project completon.
- 26 -



The annual number of outpatents doubled
from 9 million to 18.2 million by 2001,
compared to the SAR target of 13 mfilion at
project completion.
Independent evaluations have shown that
about 75% of the benecldaries are below the
poverty line (December 2001).
Among the in-patients using project fadilites,
18% belong to scheduled castes and tribes.
Access to tribal populations has been
strengthened by improving integration with
the on-going primary health care project
Institutional delvedes have Increased by 36%
between 1996 and 2001 Women comprise
52% of inpatients and 50% of outpatients;
men comprise 37% of in-patients and 39% of
outpatients: and chidren below 14 years
comprise 11% of both In-patents and
outpatients.
Hospital based IEC activities have been
implemented on drug use, safe injection
practices, waste management. equipment
safety etc.
Quality:                             Improving Quality:                   Improving Quality.
The drug budget has increased from Rs.
5,000 per bed per annum at project
commencement to Rs. 8,000 In FY02 (while
the procurement price of essential drugs
have remained the same dudng this pedod).
There has been a significant Increase in the
availability of drugs and consumables. The
types of essential drugs procured at project
insttutions have increased from 83 different
types of drugs in 1996to 103 in 2001 in
accordance with the national drug list.
Another 34 additonal essential types of
drugs, thus totafing 137, are available and
bought from the resources at the faclities.
A total of 2,915 medical, nursing and
para-medical staff have been recruited.
1,711 doctors and 2,869 nurses have been
trained In cfinical and management skills
Indicators for measuring dinical quaUty have
been developed and are being used for
OB/GYN, medicine, surgery and pedIatric
services. A peer review system has also been
introduoed
Effectiveness:                                                            Improving Efrectiveness:
Support services, Induding cleaning and
fadlity maintenance have been contracted out
at ai 160 upgraded fadlites. Laundry and
security services have been contracted out at
80% of these fadlities and ambulance
services at 100 hospitals. After project
completon, and because contracing out of
these services has reduced costs and
increased effidency, APVVP intends to
further expand contracting out of services.
- 27 -



Referral systems from the community to
pnmary to secondary levels are being made
functional with the development of pmtocols,
sensitizaton of health personnel and will be
further strengthened with the on-going
primary health care projec.
A Management Informabon System for
hospitals has been established and is
functional in all 160 hosptals. Hospitals are
being graded in A, B, C categories based on
performanoe indicators Financial awards are
being given to the best and better performing
hospitals. Independent evahuatons have
been undertaken to: (a) validate HMIS data,
including reported performance of hospitals,
(b) client satisfaction, (c) training, and (d)
quality of civ3 works and equipment
Although not an explicit component of the
project, health care waste managemerit is
being instituted as an integral part of hospital
up-gradaton. About 6,990 staff have been
trained in health care waste management
practies.
End of project
-28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal                  :Percentage: of
Ejstirnate    Estimate     * Appraisal
.ProjectCost By Componert            US$millior' US   milli,on,
I. Institutional Strengthening                     4.10           4.10           100
11. Improving Service Quality, Access and Effectiveness  55.00   54.40            99
at District Hospitals
HI. Improving Service Quality, Access and Effectiveness  78.00   77.80           100
at Area and Comnuunity Hospitals
Total Baseline Cost                              137.10         136.30
Physical Contingencies                           12.20
Price Contingencies                               9.70
Total Project Costs           159.00        136.30
Total Financing Required           159.00        136.30
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Pro6ureMeint Method
Ekxenditure Catory, ,    ICB   .2                              NBF -Total Cost
I                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other-,
1. Works                    0.00         63.60        7.10         0.00        70.70
(0.00)      (54.00)       (6.00)       (0.00)      (60.00)
2. Goods                    7.80         15.50        8.40         0.00        31.70
(6.80)      (14.20)       (7.50)      (0.00)       (28.50)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         9.50         0.00        9.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (9.50)      (0.00)       (9.50)
4. Miscellaneous:           0.00         0.00         33.00        0.00        33.00
Salaries
(0.00)       (0.00)      (24.60)       (0.00)      (24.60)
5. Miscellaneous:           0.00         0.00         6.90         0.00        6.90
Operational Expenses        (0.00)       (0.00)       (5.20)      (0.00)       (5.20)
6. Miscellaneous:           0.00         0.00         7.20         0.00        7.20
Building&Equlpment         (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.20)      (0.00)       (5.20)
Maintenance
Total                     7.80        79.10        72.10         0.00       159.00
(6.80)      (68.20)       (58.00)      (0.00)     (133.00)
-29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
.                          ~~~~~~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure ,.Category      ICB                              2 Pthod'  N.B.F.    Total Cost
NCB         'Othe r~     _   _   _     ___
1 . Works                       0.00          95.14         0.00          0.00          95.14
(0.00)        (38.76)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (38.76)
2. Goods                        0.26           0.76         0.00          0.00          1.02
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3 . Services                    0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
_    (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous:               0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. MiscellaneoUs:               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Operational Expenses           (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous:               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Building&Equipment             (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Maintenance
Total                        0.26          95.90         0.00          0.00          96.16
(0.00)        (38.76)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (38.76)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing ty Component (in USS million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Cornponent             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate          -
Bank      Govt.     CoF.   - Bonk      NGovt.    CoF      Bank   Govit  CoF.
I. Institutional         3.80      0 30               3.80      0.30              100.0  100.0
Strengthening
IL Improve Service      46.50      8.50               45.80     13.60             98.5   160.0
Quality, Access &
Effectiveness at District
Hospitals
m. Improve Service      63.50     14.50               63.20     19.50             99.5   134.5
Quality, Access &
Effectiveness at Area and
Community Hospitals
Total Baseline Costs    113 80    23.30              112.80     33.40             99.1   143.3
Physical Contingencies   9.80     2.30                                             0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies      7.80      1.90                                            0.0    0.0
TOTAL COSTS             131 50    27.50              115.50     33.40             87.8   121.5
-30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
.a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification             7    Mission Leader/Economist,
07/18/1993-                    Public Health Specialists (2),
08/02/1993                     Biomedical Engineer Consultant,
Architect Consultants (2),
Management Specialist
Preparation               10   Mission Leader/Economist,
11/07/1993-                    Public Health Specialists (4),
11/18/1993                     Biomedical Engineer Consultant,
Architect Consultants (2),
Management Specialist,
Economist Consultants (2)
Pre-Appraisal              8   Mission Leader/Economist,
01/27/1994-                     Public Health Specialist,
02/10/1994                     Biomedical Engineer Consultant,
Architect Consultants (2),
Economist Consultants (2),
Management Specialist
Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal                 10    Mission Leader/Economist,
05/16/1994                      Public Health Specialists (2),
05/31/1994                      Biomedical Engineer
Consultant, Management
Specialist Consultants (2),
Architect Consultants (2),
Social Development
Specialist Consultant,
Economist Consultant
Supervision
05/28/1995                  4   Mission Leader/Economist,        S             S
05/31/1995                      Public Health Specialists (2),
Biomedical Engineer
Consultant
03/04/1996-                 6   Mission Leader/Economist,        S             S
03/11/1996                      Public Health Specialist, Social
Development Specialist
Consultant, Architect Consultant,
Biomedical Engineer Consultant,
Management Consultant
09/30/1996-                 7   Mission Leader/Economist,        S             S
10/03/1996                     Social Development Specialist,
Public Health Specialists (2),
Biomedical Engineer Consultant,
Architect Consultant,
- 32 -



Procurement Specialist
05/28/1997-                 7   Mission Leader/Economist,        S            S
06/05/1997                      Procurement Specialist, Public
Health Specialist, Economist,
Social Development Specialist,
Biomedical Engineer Consultant,
Architect Consultant
12/12/1997-                5   Mission Leader/Economist,         S            S
12/19/1997                     Procurement Specialist, Architect
Consultant, Biomedical Engineer
Consultant, Social Development
Specialist Consultant
05/31/1998-                 9   Mission Leader/Economist,        S            S
06/05/1998                      Social Development Specialists
(2), Economist, Public Health
Specialist, Biomedical Engineer
Consultant, Procurement
Engineer, Health Management
Specialist, Architect Consultant
11/16/1998-                 7  Mission Leader/Economist,         S            S
11/23/1998                     Public Health Specialists (2),
Economist, Social Development
Specialist, Biomedical Engineer
Consultant, Waste Management
Specialist Consultant
05/27/1999-                 3   Team Leader/Economist,           HS            S
05/28/1999                      Mission Leader, Public Health
Specialist, Biomedical Engineer
Consultant
10/31/1999-                 4  Mission Leader/Economist,         HS           S
11/10/1999                     Public Health Specialist,
Biomedical Engineer Consultant,
Architect Consultant
04/29/2000-                 7   Mission Leader/Economist,        S             S
05/05/2000                      Public Health Specialists (3),
Financial Management
Specialist, Waste Management
Specialist, Architect Consultant
09/16/2000-                 3   Mission Leader/Economist,        S             S
09/20/2000                      Public Health Specialist, Social
Development Specialist
Consultant
02/10/2001 -                3   Mission Leader/Economist,        S             S
02/13/2001                      Public Health Specialists (2)
ICR
02/07/2002-                5    Mission Leader/Economist,        S             S
02/12/2002                      Public Health Specialists
(2), Procurement Specialist,
Operations Officer
- 33 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             105.4                      259.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                   53.3                       107.6
Supervision                             10.5                       23.6
ICR                                    158.5                      573.9
Total                                  327.7                      964.1
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Sector Policies                       OH   *SUOM      O N   O NA
L Physical                              O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
L Financial                             O H  * SU O M   O N   O NA
L Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                         O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction              O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
Li Gender                        O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
0 Other (Please specify)         O H   OSU*M      O N   O NA
NGO/Stakeholder Participation
O Private sector development            0 H  O SU * M   0 N   0 NA
L Public sector management              0 H  0 SU O M   0 N   0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
OI Lending                                          OHS OS       OtU   OHU
Li Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
Li Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. APVVP.        Brief Report on Health Sector Analysis in Andhra Pradesh, September 1991.
2.               Concept Paper: Project for Strengthening and Upgradation of First Line Referral.
3.               Development of the Secondary Level Health Care System, January and May 1994.
4.               Hospitals in the State of Andhra Pradesh, March 1993.
5.               Disease Profile - APVVP Hospitals 1997-98
6.               Proposals for Reform of the Health Sector in Andhra Pradesh, March 1997.
7.               Periodic Analysis of Hospital Performance, September 1998
8.               A Report on Quality Assurance Programme, September 1998.
9.               Clinical Protocol - Obstetncs and Gynecology, November 1998.
10.              Workshop Proceedings: Norms for Hospital Services and Equipment, November 1998.
11.              Performance Rating of APVVP Hospitals, December 2001
12.              Hospital Biomedical Waste Management, December 2002.
13.              Inplementation of Project Components, February 2002.
14.              Notes on Rationale and Activities, February 2002.
15.              Drug Availability and Distribution, February 2002.
16. ASCI.        The Beneficiary/Social Assessment Study, 1994.
17.              Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness Study, 1994.
18. George, A.   Women's Perception of Quality of Reproductive Care m Pnvate Hospitals m AP
19. IDA.         Identification Mission: AP District Health Systems Project, July 1992.
20.              Preparation Missions: AP District Health Systems Project, July and November 1993.
21.              Aide Memoires, August 1993 - February 2002.
22.              Staff Appraisal Report, November 1994.
23. Mahapatra, P. Overview of Private Hospitals in Andhra Pradesh.
24. Nanda, L     Assessment of Demand for Accreditation Services in Hyderabad.
Need and Scope of Regulation of Services in the Private Health Sector in AP
- 37 -









IMAGING
Repowt No.:         25204
T ype:    ZR



