Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2663 IN
                       Development Credit Agreement
           (Andhra Pradesh First Referral Health System Project)
                                  between
                                   INDIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated December 22, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2663 IN
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1994, between INDIA, acting
by its President, (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the State of
Andhra Pradesh (the Project State) with the assistance of the
Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (APVVP), as well as the
assistance of the Borrower and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Project State and APVVP the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date between the Association
Page  2
of one part and the Project State and APVVP of the other part;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)    "Andhra Pradesh" means the Borrower's state of
Andhra Pradesh, or any successor thereto;
      (b)   "Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad" (APVVP)
means the body corporate established under the Andhra Pradesh
Vaidya Vidhana Parishad Act, 1986 of Andhra Pradesh (Act No: 29
of 1986), as amended to date (hereinafter referred to as "the
Charter");
      (c)   "area hospital" means a hospital with about 75-100
beds providing secondary or first referral level services;
      (d)   "community hospital" means a hospital with about 30-
50 beds providing secondary or first referral level services;
      (e)   "district hospital" means a hospital with about 250-
350 beds providing secondary or first referral level services;
      (f)   "Policy Reform Program" means the program of reforms
described in the letter dated October 21, 1994 from the Project
State to the Association;
      (g)   "primary level services" means preventive and limited
curative health services;
      (h)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association of the one part and the
Project State and APVVP of the other part, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (i)   "Scheduled Castes" refers to the population groups
specified as "Scheduled Castes" pursuant to Article 341 of the
Constitution of India;
      (j)   "Scheduled Tribes" refers to the population groups
specified as "Scheduled Tribes" pursuant to Article 342 of the
Constitution of India;
      (k)   "secondary or first level services" means clinical
and diagnostic services below the tertiary level;
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (m)   "tertiary level services" mean specialized, highly
technical services.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
Page  3
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ninety million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 90,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November
15, commencing May 15, 2005 and ending November 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
November 15, 2014 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
Page  4
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this
Agreement, shall cause the Project State and APVVP to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
the respective obligations of the Project State and APVVP set
forth therein, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project
State and APVVP to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Project State in accordance with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental assistance
to the States of India, and to APVVP under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out
jointly and severally by the Project State and APVVP  pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Financial and Other Covenants
Page  5
      Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting practices,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than nine
                  months after the end of each such year the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested, including a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                  the statements of expenditure submitted during
                  such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                  and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Project State or APVVP shall have failed to
perform any of its respective obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project State or
APVVP will perform its respective obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (c)   The Project State shall have reduced the share of the
primary and secondary levels in the total resources (plan and
non-plan) allocated by it for the health sector from the level
of such share prevailing in the Project State's financial year
1994-1995.
Page  6
      (d)   APVVP  shall have undertaken any activity, or
undergone any corporate reorganization, which, in the
reasonable opinion of the Association, materially and adversely
affects the ability of APVVP to carry out the Project.
      (e)   The Borrower, the Project State, or any other
authority shall have taken steps for the dissolution or
disestablishment of APVVP.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and the concerned
Project State; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Project
State and APVVP respectively and is legally binding upon each
of them in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary,
Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department
of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of India
            Ministry of Finance
            Department of Economic Affairs
            New Delhi, India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                  New Delhi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
Page  7
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                  INDIA
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                               South Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works             37,700,000        85%
(2)   Equipment,              17,700,000        100% of foreign
      vehicles,                                 expenditures,
      medicines,                                100% of local
      materials,                                expenditures
      furniture                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)   Consultant               6,000,000        100%
      services,
      fellowships
(4)   Incremental             21,900,000        90% of local
      salaries,                                 expenditures
Page  8
      incremental                               during the first
      operation and                             three years of
      maintenance costs                         Project implemen-
                                                tation; 75% during
                                                the fourth and
                                                fifth year of
                                                Project implemen-
                                                tation; and 60%
                                                thereafter
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)   Unallocated              7,400,000
                             ___________
           TOTAL              90,700,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "incremental operation and maintenance
costs" means operations and maintenance costs incurred under
the Project on or after June 1, 1994; and "incremental staff
salaries" means salaries in respect of posts created for the
Project on or after June 1, 1994, including consulting or
contractual services; and
      (d)   for the purposes of Category (4) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the term "first year of Project
implementation" shall mean the first twelve months following
the date of effectiveness of this Agreement and references to
any other year of Project implementation shall be determined
accordingly.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures incurred prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of SDR 3,800,000, may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April
1, 1994.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (a) works under contracts not exceeding
$300,000 equivalent; (b) goods under  contracts not exceeding
$200,000 equivalent; (c) services under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and
$50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants
respectively; (d) training and fellowships; (e) works procured
under force account; and (f) incremental salaries and
incremental operational and maintenance costs, all under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
Page  9
      The objectives of the Project are to improve efficiency of
allocation and use of health resources through policy and
institutional development; and to improve systems performance
of health care through improvements in the quality,
effectiveness and coverage of health services at the secondary
level to better serve the neediest sections of society.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association from time to time:
Part A:     Institutional Strengthening for Policy and Capacity
            Development
(1)   Planning Cell: Strengthening the capacity of the Project
State for policy analysis and development by establishing an
adequately staffed planning cell in its Department of Health;
and implementing a program of strategic policy analysis and
development, inter alia, through studies, seminars and
workshops; and
(2)   Institutional Strengthening: Strengthening management
effectiveness of, and delivery of clinical services by: (a)
establishing a management and institutional structure for APVVP
that will enable it to efficiently manage its resources and
deliver health services including, inter alia, providing APVVP
and its hospitals autonomy as provided in APVVP's Charter,
enhancing capacity for monitoring and evaluation as well as
improving equipment management, inter alia, by enhancing the
capacity of its equipment maintenance and training center and
establishing zonal workshops; (b) strengthening the management
information system and the health management information system
of APVVP, including medical records to facilitate systems
improvement, wider access and improved data collection and
utilization for policy making, problem solving and monitoring
in the health sector; (c) provision of enhanced management
training and fellowships for professional cadres and increasing
on-going in-service training and fellowships for clinical and
technical cadres at APVVP including at APVVP hospitals; (d)
provision of additional staff to strengthen selected APVVP
units; (e) strengthening the implementation capacity of the
Andhra Pradesh Health and Medical Housing Infrastructure
Development Corporation (APHMHIDC); and (f) strengthening
procurement capacity of APVVP and APHMHIDC.
Part B:     Improving Service Quality, Access and Effectiveness
            at District Hospitals
(1)   Renovation and Extension of District Hospitals: Renovation
and extension of about 17 district hospitals and upgrading
about 4 area hospitals to district hospitals in selected
districts to improve clinical effectiveness and quality of
services for some 4,600 existing beds and to provide about
1,000 additional beds at these hospitals;
(2)   Upgrading Norms and Standards: Upgrading of clinical
effectiveness and quality of services at district hospitals
through the adoption and application of updated norms and
standards, implementation of a quality assurance program and
expansion of capacity of support services; and
(3)   Construction of Staff Quarters: Construction of staff
quarters at district hospitals where staff accommodation is
inadequate.
Part C:     Improving Quality, Access and Effectiveness at Area
            and Community Hospitals
(1)   Renovation and Extension of Area and Community Hospitals:
Renovation and extension of area (49) and community (80)
hospitals currently under APVVP so as to improve the clinical
effectiveness and quality of services of 5,051 existing beds
Page  10
and provide 3,349 new beds with improved services;
(2)   Upgrading of Norms and Standards: Upgrading clinical
effectiveness and quality of services at area and community
hospitals through the adoption and application of updated norms
and standards, implementation of a quality assurance program
and expansion of capacity of support services;
(3)   Improving Services at Tribal Areas: (a) Enhancement of
services at 6 community hospitals and 3 area hospitals in
tribal areas so as to improve the existing 270 beds and provide
290 new beds at these hospitals; (b) improving quality and
effectiveness of services provided at community hospitals in
tribal and remote areas including carrying out information,
education and communication (IEC) activities to encourage
tribal populations to make greater use of services offered by
community hospitals in a manner that complements their
traditional systems of medicine; and
(4)   Construction of Staff Quarters: Construction of staff
quarters at area and community hospitals, particularly in
remote and tribal areas where current accommodation for staff
is inadequate.
Part D:     Improving the Referral System: Strengthening the
system of referral between the primary, secondary and tertiary
levels of the health care system in the Project State by
establishing effective linkages between these levels, inter
alia, by the provision of increased clinical and technical
support by secondary hospitals to primary health centers and
community hospitals; strengthening referral mechanisms between
community, area and district hospitals; formulation and
implementation of mechanisms to provide expanded access to
secondary and higher levels of health care by making the
referral system more timely, effective and user-friendly; and
providing improved access for remote and tribal communities.
                                *    *    *
      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 20,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
Page  11
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account
                  at such intervals as the Association shall
                  specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  the documents and other evidence required
                  pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                  the payment or payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Association shall, on
                  behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                  Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                  Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by said
                  documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
Page  12
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account, for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of
this Agreement.
