      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)(P083126)



                                                                                                                  Report Number : ICRR0020088


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                      Project Name
 P083126                                         REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)

 Country                                         Practice Area(Lead)                                Additional Financing
                                                 Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global         P119688
 Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of
                                                 Practice



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-47680,IBRD-79280                                 31-Dec-2009                                                               28,100,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  15-Mar-2005                                           30-Jun-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                             26,100,000.00                                                            0.00

  Revised Commitment                                              25,103,369.40                                                            0.00

  Actual                                                          24,827,254.23                                                            0.00




 Sector(s)
 Central government administration(40%):General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector(30%):Law and justice(25%):Tertiary education(5%)

 Theme(s)
 Personal and property rights(33%):Land administration and management(33%):Administrative and civil service reform(17%):Other public
 sector governance(17%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Roberto C. Laver                    Robert Mark Lacey                   Christopher David Nelson             IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    To build an efficient and effective real estate cadastre and registration system, contributing to the development of efficient land and real
    estate markets in the territory of the Borrower (Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement)
    The PAD contains an identical statement of project objectives.
    In May, 2010, the Board approved Additional Financing in the amount of €9.0 million (US$12.3 million equivalent) to "expand the scope and
    strengthen the impact" of the project (ICR, page 3). The project objectives and associated outcome targets were not changed.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)(P083126)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     The project had six components, four of them in the original design and the remaining two included as part of a project restructuring and
     Additional Financing (AF) in 2010 . In addition to the two new components, the AF also provided finance for additional activities under the
     original components II, III and IV (as described below).
     　 Original Project Design
     The four original components were as follows:
     I: Completing the Real Estate Cadastre (REC) and Registration of Rights (appraisal cost € 7.89 million (US$ 10.73 million
     equivalent) , actual cost € 6.34 million (US$ 8.62 million equivalent)): 1. Completion of the REC, including base mapping; re-survey
     and updating of cadastral maps; systematic adjudication and registration of real estate rights, and rationalization of registration
     procedures; and rationalization and streamlining of procedures of systematic registration, sporadic registration and conversion of land
     cadastre to the REC. 2. Public awareness campaign for the REC including mediation and legal advice.
     II: Institutional Development and Improving Service Delivery (appraisal cost € 1.98 million (US$ 2.69 million equivalent), actual
     cost € 3.52 million (US$ 4.78 million equivalent)): 1. Institutional development and capacity building for the State Authority of Geodetic
     Works (SAGW). 2. Promoting transparency and accountability in the SAGW through the issuance of a "customer bill of rights", the
     establishment of a telephone hotline for customer complaints, and strengthening internal investigation of corruption and misconduct. 3.
     Improving registration services. 4. Development of an automated registration and cadastre system. 5. Development of a strategic plan and
     associated human resource development in the SAGW, including training for private sector surveyors and upgrading of the geodetic
     engineering education program at Cyrill & Methodius University in Skopje.
     III: Development of Land Policy (appraisal cost € 0.32 million (US$ 0.43 million equivalent), actual cost € 0.23 million (US$ 0.31
     million equivalent)): 1. Development of Government capacity to develop policies and a regulatory framework through a consultative
     process. 2. Formulation of specific land and real estate policies necessary to ensure completion of the real estate cadastre and for the full
     functioning of land and real estate markets.
     IV: Project Management (appraisal cost € 0.40 million (US$ 0.54 million equivalent), actual cost € 0.72 million (US$ 0.97 million
     equivalent)): 1. Support of the project management unit (PMU). 2. Establishment of an integrated monitoring and evaluation system for
     project implementation, as well as provision for carrying out a socio-economic and environmental impact assessment to measure project
     impact.　
     2010 Project Restructuring and AF
     The new activities under components II, III and IV and the two new additional components V and VI were as follows:
     II: Institutional Development and Improving Service Delivery (AF: appraisal cost € 1.77 million (US$ 2.4 million equivalent), actual
     cost €1.56 million (US$ 2.12 million equivalent)): 1. Institutional development and capacity building for the Agency for Real Estate
     Cadastre (AREC), the successor agency to SAGW 2. Public awareness campaigns and customer surveys/market research
     III: Development of Land Policy (AF: appraisal cost € 0.48 million (US$ 0.65 million equivalent), actual cost € 0.27 million (US$
     0.36 million equivalent)): 1. Development of Government capacity to develop policies and a regulatory framework through a consultative
     process. 2. Formulation of specific land and real estate policies necessary to ensure completion of the real estate cadastre and for the full
     functioning of land and real estate markets.
     IV: Project Management (AF: appraisal cost € 0.24 million (US$ 0.32 million equivalent), actual cost € 0.44 million (US$ 0.59
     million equivalent)): Support to AREC to manage the project.
     V: Digital Cadastre Map and Web-GIS (appraisal cost € 5.40 million (US$ 7.3 million equivalent), actual cost € 5.61 million (US$
     7.62 million equivalent)): 1. Digitization and vectorization of the existing maps and necessary quality control; upgrading the digital
     cadastre map database and software for maintenance, and provision of training on the application and necessary quality control. 2.
     Development of the platform for data sharing and exchange with the public, private sector and other Government institutions. 3. Upgrading
     the geodetic reference infrastructure of AREC.
     VI: Support for the new co-implementing agency, the Authority for Legal and Property Affairs (ALPA) (appraisal cost € 1.07
     million (US$ 1.45 million equivalent), actual cost €1.06 million (US$ 1.44 million equivalent)): 1. Training and technical assistance to
     support ALPA’s functions. 2. Equipment and networking for ALPA to enable improved customer service provision. 3. Automation of
     business processes and digitization of existing records for the creation of a digital archive. 4. Civil works to renovate and outfit ALPA
     offices to improve customer reception areas.
     As the ICR points out, the AF "was designed to scale up the scope and financing to strengthen the impact of the well-performing Project,
     which had become the centerpiece of the Government’s agenda for promoting investments in the real estate sector. " (ICR, 3) The two
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)(P083126)



    new components were aimed at further upgrading of the cadastre system and services and the strengthening of state land management
    through a new implementing agency, ALPA (along with AREC as the main implementing agency). As stated by the ICR, the support to
    ALPA to complete the privatization of urban land, and improve its capacity to manage state property assets would improve access to land
    for investors and the country’s business climate, thereby contributing to the development of efficient land and real estate markets (ICR, 3).




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project Costs. Project costs at appraisal were estimated to be € 11.82 million, including physical and price contingencies ( € 0.59 million
    each) and front-end fee of €EUR 0.051 million. Actual project costs under the original loan were € $ 10.87 million. Project costs at the
    time of restructuring and the Additional Financing (AF) were estimated to be € 9.00 million including a front-end fee of € 0.0225 million.
    Actual project costs under the AF were € 8.96 million.
    While actual project costs were close to those estimated at appraisal and at the time of restructuring, at the level of components there
    were some deviations. Under the original loan, the actual costs for project components II and IV were at 177% and 180% of those
    estimated at appraisal. Under the AF, the actual costs for project component IV were at 183% of those estimated at appraisal. According
    to the project team, the variations between appraisal and actual costs under Component II were due to additional investments in
    software. The additional expenditures were made possible by savings generated under Component I. The variations under Component
    IV were probably related to an increase in staff costs.
    Financing. The originally approved loan (March 15, 2005) was € 10.3 million. The AF loan (May 11, 2010) was € 9.0 million. Parallel
    financing was provided by the following partners: Sweden (US$5.7 million) and the Netherlands (US$0.55 million). These funds were
    used to complement the project's activities in support of capacity building but they did not form part of the project results framework.
    Borrower Contribution. The Borrower’s contribution was estimated at appraisal at EUR 1.51 million. At project closure, the actual
    contribution was EUR 1.21 million. According to the project team, the variation is probably due to exchange rate fluctuations. There was
    no Borrower contribution under the AF loan agreement
    Dates. The original closing date was December 31, 2009. Prior to the signing of the AF loan agreement, the closing date was extended
    twice, to May 31, 2010 and later to December 31, 2010. Both extensions were provided to allow for the full processing of the AF and, in
    the case of the second extension, also to support initial investments related to the new activities under the AF. The AF loan agreement
    established a new closing date of December 31, 2013. An extension of this closing date was approved for 18 months to compensate for
    the delays caused by the 18-month loan disbursement ceiling imposed by the Government to deal with the impact of the global financial
    crisis on the country’s economy. This ceiling halted the project for 18 months, leading to the cancellation of the PMU non-core functions,
    cancellation of several contracts and procurement processes and delays in payment processing. With the approval of this last extension
    of the closing date, changes were made in the results framework to better measure the impact of the project [see Sections 4 and 10 (a).]




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   While the Results Framework for the World Bank Group’s 2015-2018 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Macedonia does not explicitly
   include real estate cadastre and registration, the ICR notes that the objectives remain consistent with the priorities identified in the CPS:
   improving the business climate to attract private investment in order to achieve sustained private sector led growth and job creation; and
   increasing skills and improving inclusion through more efficient public and municipal services (ICR, 11). The development objectives were also
   relevant to the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS – FY04-06 of August 14, 2003) at appraisal by (a) directly promoting private sector
   development and the creation of jobs through supporting the completion of the real estate cadaster and building institutional capacity for land
   titles transfer; and (b) tackling corruption by focusing on improvement of service standards and customer satisfaction mechanisms (ICR, 2).
   Also, the AF adhered closely to the 2007-2010 CPS by further responding to the challenge of improving public service provision in a sector
   that has a direct impact on economic growth through securing and promoting the property market. The objectives are equally relevant to the
   Government’s strategy -- its efforts to protect the project against the fiscal constraints created by the global financial crisis are evidence of the
   project’s importance for the country.




   Rating
   Substantial
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)(P083126)




   b. Relevance of Design

       Project design was relevant to the development objectives. The causal chain between project activities and the achievement of objectives was
       clear. Digital cadastral mapping, registration of rights, capacity building of the implementing agencies (including transparency measures),
       development of land policies, laws and regulations, were all essential to building blocks for an efficient and effective real estate cadastre and
       registration system, necessary in turn for the development of efficient land and real estate markets in Macedonia. While not directly associated
       with the cadaster and registration system, the additional component VI with the support to ALPA, by helping complete the privatization of urban
       land and improving the capacity to manage state property assets, contributed to the development of efficient land and real estate markets.




       Rating
       High



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Objective 1: Build an efficient and effective real estate cadastre and registration system

    Rationale
    Outputs/Intermediate Outcomes:
    By the closing of the original loan:

        •   The Real Estate Cadaster covered 100% of Macedonia
        •   75% of land parcels and apartments had fully registered rights in Cadastral Municipalities under the project
        •   Land parcels with use or ownership rights recorded as a result of the project reach 1,733,000 ha
        •   Land parcels with use/ownership rights recorded as a result of project-female reach 468,000 ha
        •   Target population with use or ownership rights recorded as a result of the project reached 1,109,500.
        •   90% of transactions were registered within the established service standards
        •   Hotline for customer complaints was established and operational
        •   100% of all cadastral surveying work was done by the private sector
        •   SAGW had completed and adopted a strategic plan and a human resources development plan
        •   Key land and real estate policies were formulated and adopted
        •   A regular M&E system was fully functional
        •   The customer surveys (3) were implemented
        •   A socio-economic and environmental impact was completed


    By closing of the AF:

        • Target land area with use or ownership rights recorded as a result of project reached 1,367,800ha
        • The average number of days to complete recordation of purchase/sale of property in urban areas was reduced from 30 (baseline value)
        to 1 (target value).
        • The average number of days to complete recordation of purchase/sale of property in rural areas was reduced from 10 (baseline value)
        to 1 (target value).
        • AREC completed and adopted a strategic plan and a human resources development plan
        • The average number of days to complete recordation of purchase/sale of property in land administration system was reduced from 30
        (baseline value) to 1 (target value).
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)(P083126)



        • The percentage of transactions registered within the established service standards was increased from 30% (baseline value) to 90 %
        (target value).
        • Key land and real estate policies were formulated and adopted
        • A regular M&E system was fully functional
        • The customer surveys (2) were implemented
        • The National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI) strategy was completed
        • The Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) transformation parameters available for public use.
        • The web portal was created and digital cadastre maps were available online for 83 % of territory (baseline was 19% and target value
        was 70%).
        • Twenty five ALPA offices were renovated and outfitted.(target value 24)
        • The strategy for ALPA’s role and mandate was produced
        • The number of urban land privatization cases resolved increased from 64500 to 181,077, exceeding the target value of 170,000


    Outcomes:

        • Increased satisfaction of customers with improvement in service standards of cadastre and registration services did not meet the original
        target value of 4 (out of 5) but exceeded the 2013 target value of 3.8 (out of 5) for AREC (which accounted for 95 of project funds) and
        substantially achieved the 2013 target value of 3.5 (out of 5) for ALPA.　
        • The utilization of digital records supporting registration and cadastre services exceeded its target value. The target was 70% against a
        baseline of 20.75%. By project closure, the percentage was 83%.




    Rating
    High

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Objective 2: Contribute to the development of efficient land and real estate markets

    Rationale
    Outputs/Intermediate Outcomes
    The same as for Objective 1
    Outcomes

        • The number of transactions in land and real estate substantially exceeded the original target value and the 2013 target value. The
        original target value was a +20% increase over a 2005 baseline of 42,116 transactions. By 2009 there were 93,240 transactions. The 2013
        target value was a + 20% increase over the 2009 baseline. By project closure, there were 147,319 transactions.
        • The number of mortgages using property as collateral substantially exceeded the original target value and the 2013 target value. The
        original target was a +20% increase over a 2005 baseline of 2920 mortgages. By 2009 there were more than triple the 2005 baseline
        number. The 2013 target value was a + 20% increase over the 2009 baseline. By project closure, there were 16, 794 mortgages.


    Two points are worth highlighting:

        • The project received an award (one of 12 projects out of 282) by the Bank under the contest "Improving the lives of people in Europe
        and Central Asia 2010" for having shown innovations and specific and tangible results in the improvement of the property registration
        system and having an influence on the lives of its people (ICR, 13 footnote 15)
        • The increase in mortgage market activity occurred against the backdrop of an economic slowdown (ICR, 13)
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)(P083126)




 Rating
 High



5. Efficiency

The ICR estimates the NPV of the full project at USD 40.49 million and the IRR at 37.2%. The NPV and IRR of the Bank’s financial contribution
are estimated at USD 29.04 million and 46.8% respectively. The NPV assumes a project period from 2005 to 2024 and a discount rate of 10
percent. The ICR notes that, unlike other land projects of similar nature where the percentage of benefits attributable to the project are
assumed to be 1 percent to account for other market forces and donor funding, for this project the percentage is just 0.1 percent (ten times less)
because the usual 1 percent assumption yields extremely high NPV and IRR estimates (ICR, 14). Full details of the IRR and NPV calculations
are provided in the ICR (ICR, 14 and Annex 3). Although there were delays in project completion, these were due mainly to necessary
processing of additional activities supported by the AF, rather than to operational and administrative inefficiencies.




Efficiency Rating
High


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                18.00
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                             46.80
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of objectives was rated substantial, taking into consideration that the CPS at closure does not include explicit reference to real estate
issues. However, relevance of design is high as is efficacy of Objectives 1 and 2 and Efficiency. Thus, the project is rated Highly Satisfactory.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Highly Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Project improvements are fully integrated into the operations of AREC and ALPA and can be maintained with little costs. Financial flows from
registration and other fees are robust. AREC’s finances are solid and the trend towards a fully self-financing agency will strengthen its position.
The efficient and effective real estate system is central to the Government’s wider program to promote investment and thus governmental
support can be expected. There is also strong support from the public and land market professionals. The ICR notes two issues that the
Government is addressing to further strengthen sustainability: regularization of illegal and informal constructions and an indemnity fund to
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)(P083126)



safeguard against unexpected large claims for errors and fraud (ICR, 16).



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Negligible


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     Project design benefitted from, and built on, operational experience learned from Bank, donor and Government efforts in the sector as well
     as international best practices. The ICR points out some positive features of design including the single agency model for land registration,
     the addressing by the project of wider land policy issues, the definition of service standards and the introduction of accountability
     mechanisms (ICR, 17). Risks we also properly identified and adequate mitigation measures taken. Critical risks included the lack of
     institutional capacity to implement the project, significant change in political support, lack of inter-agency coordination and the transition o f
     public sector surveyors to the private sector. Implementation arrangements were appropriate, and the provisions for safeguards and
     fiduciary compliance adequate. The ICR notes only one minor shortcoming, namely that the AF key indicators did not fully capture the
     impact of activities supported under the second phase. This was corrected through the 2013 project restructuring which added a new
     outcome indicator (utilization of digital records).



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Project supervision inputs and processes were adequate. Supervision included regular missions with highly qualified staff, good
     coordination with other donors, provision of expert advice in timely fashion, smooth transition between the two TTLs and flexible, pragmatic
     and pro-active response in dealing with implementation problems, particularly the impact of the global financial crisis. Rating of
     implementation progress and progress toward development objectives was realistic.



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Highly Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
     The Government showed strong commitment and high level support for the project including support for legislative reforms. However, the
     restrictions on releasing loan funds imposed by the government in 2011 and 2012 had an adverse impact on project implementation. As the
     project team explained, while they understood the Government's need to respond to the global financial crisis, the government could have
     used mechanisms (i.e. direct payments) to alleviate the adverse impact on project implementation.



     Government Performance Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
     The implementing agencies (AREC and ALPA) demonstrated strong commitment to the project, especially in the case of AREC. Despite
     some initial delays with ALPA in decision making and approvals, both implementing agencies established and maintained an effective
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)(P083126)



   project management structure including a highly qualified and permanent project management unit over the life of the project. They also
   cultivated strong relationships with stakeholders. AREC’s strong commitment was evidenced in its highly responsive action in
   dealing with the implementation bottlenecks resulting from the impact of the global financial crisis. Due to project-
   supported improvements, AREC has become a modern, service oriented agency and one of the leaders in the Eastern European region.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Highly Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The results framework in Annex 3 of the PAD contained a fairly comprehensive set of measurable output and outcome indicators and
   target values with which to evaluate the project's progress against its development objectives. The project management unit was
   responsible for managing and coordinating the monitoring and evaluation system. Most indicators had baseline values.




b. M&E Implementation
   Data was routinely collected and reported throughout the project. The ICR notes that there were some problems at first with collecting some
   data because of the lack of a centralized Information Technology system that were later overcome with the registration software. (ICR, 8) The
   adjustment and updating of the indicators and targets at the time of the AF was deficient. This was corrected through the 2013 project
   restructuring by including a new project development outcome and introducing changes to the intermediate outcome indicators for Component
   VI (ICR,4).




c. M&E Utilization
   Results of the M&E were utilized not only to monitor and report on project progress but also to identify issues and develop corrective actions.
   The M&E system also helped with the design and justification of the Additional Financing.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The only safeguards policy to be triggered was Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). The ICR (page 9) reports that an Environmental
   Analysis was carried out as part of the project preparation activities to identify potential associated direct and indirect environmental impacts.
   Based on this assessment, the project was classified as category B, with no significant adverse environmental impacts expected. An
   Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared aimed at addressing the various possible environmental impacts of project activities.
   An environmental safeguards review conducted at the end of the Project concluded that all of the construction and rehabilitation/renovation
   civil works done under both phases were implemented in compliance with the Bank environmental safeguards, with no significant impact
   registered during the works execution or during the operation phase.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)(P083126)




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   The ICR reports that financial arrangements and compliance with audit obligations were satisfactory. The external auditor’s opinions on the
   project’s financial statements were unqualified throughout implementation. However, "during the AF implementation, in particular in 2012, the
   Project faced difficulties in terms of (i) adequacy of the annual budgetary allocations secured for the Project, and (ii) timeliness of processing
   through the project Treasury mirror account of the payments to suppliers, and then documentation of the actual use of funds to the Bank,
   which created arrears that were, on occasion higher than half a million euros, hindering smooth implementation. Such issues were, to a
   certain extent, common to other IBRD-financed projects in the country given the tight fiscal discipline and targets set by MOF, and were
   closely followed-up by both counterparts and the Bank team. While delays were experienced in the implementation of certain activities and
   the project had to be restructured and extended, the situation eventually improved and the project managed to access the funding and
   successfully achieve its objectives." (ICR, 10)
   The ICR also notes that procurement activities were satisfactory overall. Technical capacity was enhanced in the implementing agencies to
   deal with more complex procurement procedures under the AF. (ICR, 10) There were no reported cases of mis-procurement.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                 Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                 Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Highly Satisfactory                Highly Satisfactory                 ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Negligible                         Negligible                          ---
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                        ---
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                        ---
Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The following lessons are taken from the ICR with some adaptation of language:　
For projects in general:

   • An incremental approach towards developing and rolling out new technology is preferable over a "big bang" approach in which
   ICT solutions are designed to be delivered under a single contract. As the ICR notes, staff of the implementing agencies and land
   market professionals were progressively introduced to new options as they were gradually developed and rolled out over a period of five
   years. As a result, the implementing agencies did not encounter the failures of ICT systems experienced in other projects, managing to
   deliver the full range of options (including online lodgement and use of electronic signatures) in a relatively short period of time, with
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         REG & REAL ESTATE (CRL)(P083126)



     extremely wide uptake and without the expenditure of large sums (ICR, 19).
     • Political will at high level of an organization is essential to transforming the culture towards a customer oriented agency.
     • While necessary, technology is not a sufficient condition to improve an organization’s service to the public; there also needs to be
     clear Government support coupled with adequate technical and financial support. As the ICR notes, the project shows that a country can
     deliver reliable property records and improved tenure security in a relatively short time through building interest for and commitment to land
     policy work and support to new laws. The ICR further adds that Government support was critical for moving from completely public sector
     responsibility for surveying work to the private sector, simplifying the procedures for achieving completion of the REC, initiating regularization
     of illegal buildings, and improving procedures for access to, and sharing of, land and real estate data (ICR, 19)


For similar projects:

     • Conversion of existing property records is a low cost and quick means of conducting first registration. As the ICR notes,
     conversion permitted the country to quickly complete first registration, establish nation-wide records on parcels and ownership, and roll out
     the system across the entire country, ensuring that the entire population received its benefits. It also allowed AREC to quickly move to focus
     on improving the transaction registration system, which was equally necessary if the property registration system was to operate efficiently
     and effectively (ICR, 19).




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

This is a concise and results- based ICR. It candidly reports the project’s achievements and shortcomings during implementation, and
provides insightful explanations for important elements of the implementation experience. The Lessons Learned are evidence based. It
would have been useful, however, if the ICR had offered more clarity and specificity on the changes in the Results Framework from phase 1
to phase 2 and during phase 2 of the project.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
