                                 Documentof
                              The World Bank




                                                ReportNo. 28168




             PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                                 VIETNAM

        HIGHWAY REHABILITATIONPROJECT 1(CREDIT 2549-VN)
             RURALTRANSPORT PROJECT1(CREDIT 2929-VN)

                                March9,2004




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = VietnameseDong (VND)

1993     US$l.OO      VND10,700           1994  US$l.OO    VND10,858
1995     US$l.OO      VND11,OlS           1996  US$l.OO    VND11,149
1997     US$l.OO      VND12,292           1998  US$l.OO    VND12,950
1999     US$l.OO      VND13,800           2000  US$l.OO    VND14,019
2001     US$l.OO      VND15,029           2002  US$l.OO    VND15,250
2003     US$l.OO      VND15,499

Abbreviations and Acronyms

DANIDA           Danish Intemational Development Agency
DFID             Department for InternationalDevelopment (U.K.)
GOV              Government of Vietnam
HSDC             Hanoi South Development Corridor
HRP 1            Highway Rehabilitation Project 1
HRP 2            Highway RehabilitationProject 2
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
JBIC             Japan Bank for International Cooperation
M O T            Ministry o f Transport
OED              Operations Evaluation Department
OP 4.30          Operational Policy (on InvoluntaryResettlement)
PAP              Project Affected Person
PDOT             Provincial Department o f Transport
PMU 1            ProjectManagement Unit 1
PMU 18           Project Management Unit 18
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
PPC              Provincial Peoples' Committee
PPMU             Provincial Project Management Unit
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
QEA              Quality at EntryAssessment
RRAP             Resettlement and RehabilitationAction Plan
RTP 1            Rural Transport IProject
RTP 2            Rural Transport I1Project
RTSS             Rural Transport Strategy Study
SDR              Special DrawingRights
SOE              State-Owned Enterprise
UNDP             UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
VND              Vietnamese Dong
VRA              Vietnam Road Authority
VLSS             Vietnam Living Standards Survey

Fiscal Year
Government:               January 1-December 31

Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department              : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                 : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                            : Mr.Peter Freeman

                                                              i


  OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independencein evaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank`sself-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank`swork is
producingthe expected results,and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As partof this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percentof
the Bank`s lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis givento those that are
innovative, large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudiesor countryevaluations;those for which
Executive Directors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
important lessons.The projects,topics,and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluation
studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operationalstaff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally,the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank departmentand amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers'comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's
Boardof Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the OED RatingSystem
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lendinginstrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Followingis
the definition and ratingscale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage. html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extentto which the project`s objectives are consistentwith the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved,or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely,Not Evaluable.
      Institutional DevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitableand sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutionalarrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these
institutional arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operationof the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                    ...
                                                                    111



Contents

PrincipalRatings          ................................................................................................................    v

Key Staff Responsible             ........................................................................................................    v

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................       ..
                                                                                                                                             v11

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................      ix

1 Background
 .                      ..................................................................................................................    1

2 Objectives andProjectDesign
 .                                                     ....................................................................................   2

3 HighwayRehabilitation1(Cr 2549)
 .                                                    .            .........................................................................  4

4 RuralTransport 1(Cr 2929)
 .                                       .           ....................................................................................    12

5 ConclusionsandLessons
 .                                            ...........................................................................................    18

References    .........................................................................................................................      21

Annex A    .Basic      DataSheets            ............................................................................................    23


BOX1 ProjectObjectivesandComponents
        .                                                                 ..................................................                  2

Maps VietnamPovertyMaps
        .                                         .................................................................                          28




This report was preparedbyPeterFreeman.TaskManager. who assessedthe projectinOctober 2003.The
reportwas editedbyWilliamHurlbut. andRomaynePereiraprovidedadministrativesupport.


                                                         V



Principal Ratings

Highway Rehabilitation Project 1 (Credit 2549- VN)

                                              ICR Review                              PPAR
Outcome                                        Satisfactory                         Satisfactory
Sustainability                                    Likely                               Likely
Institutional Development Impact                 Modest                               Modest
Bank Performance                               Satisfactory                         Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                         Unsatisfactory                         Satisfactory


Rural Transport Project 1 (Credit 2929-VN)

              -                 ---           ICR Review                              PPAR
Outcome                                        Satisfactory                    Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                                   Unlikely                              Likely
InstitutionalDevelopment Impact                  Modest                               Modest
Bank Performance                               Satisfactory                         Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                           Satisfactory                         Satisfactory

*The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.The
ICR Review is an intermediate Operations EvaluationDepartment(OED) product that seeks to independentlyverify the
findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible

Highway Rehabilitation Project 1 (Credit 2549-VN)

Project                           Task ManagedLeader                Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                                    Sector Director
  Appraisal                           Gerhard Menckhoff               Jeffrey Gutman              Callisto Madavo
  Re-Appraisal                         Sigfus Sigfusson               Jeffrey Gutman              Callisto Madavo
  Completion                             Alain Labeau                 Jitendra Bajpai               Andrew Steer



Rural Transport Project 1 (Credit 2929- W)

Project                           Task ManagedLeader                Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                                    Sector Director
 Appraisal                           Supee Teravaninthorn             Jeffrey Gutman            JavedSKhalilgadah-
                                                                                                         hirazi
 Completion                           Sally Burningham                Jitendra Bajpai               Andrew Steer


                                              vii


Preface

        This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), preparedbythe Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), covers two recently completed transport sector projects in
the Socialist Republic o fVietnam. The first, HighwayRehabilitation Project 1(Credit
2549-VN), involved the rehabilitation o f two sections o fVietnam's main highway, while
the second, Rural Transport 1(Credit 2929-VN), was for the rehabilitation o frural access
roads in 18 provinces.

        An International Development Association (IDA) credit o f Special Drawing
Rights(SDR) 112.2 million (US$158.8 equivalent) for Highway Rehabilitation 1was
approved on October 26, 1993. The final project cost was US$186.7 million of which
IDA'Scontribution was US$145.3 million. Duringearlyimplementation the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) agreed to finance the upgradingo f the
ferry services andincreasedthe amount available for this part o fthe project to US$14.9
million. All other components as originally defined were completed inDecember 1999,
just three months later than the target set at appraisal. Some savings inthe IDA credit
were reallocated to finance part o f the Hanoi South Development Corridor (HSDC)
bypass andthe project completion date was extended to December 2001 to accommodate
this.The loanwas closed inOctober 2003, following the repayment o fUS$7.2 millionin
ineligible expendituresby the Government o f Vietnam (GOV).

        The credit for RuralTransport 1o f SDR 37.8 million (US$55.0 equivalent) was
approved on December 23, 1996. At completion the final project cost was US$56.6
million (US$60.9 million at appraisal) and the IDA component was US$50.6 milliondue
to exchange rate fluctuations. The project was completed on schedule inDecember 2001.
A Rural Transport Strategy Study (RTSS) that was part ofthe original project description
was funded as a separateproject with grant funding from the UnitedKingdom's
Department for InternationalDevelopment (DFID).

        OED prepared the report based on an examination o f the relevant Staff Appraisal
Reports (SAR's), Implementation Completion Reports (ICR's), legal agreements, project
files, documents presentedto the Board, as well as other reports, memoranda, and
working papers. Discussions were also heldwith a number o f Bank staff. An OED
mission visitedVietnaminOctober 2003 and discussedthe projects with government
officials, provincial and district peoples' committees, contractors, consultants, road
maintenance workers, and project-affected persons (PAP'S).Their kindassistance i s
gratefully acknowledged. Following standard procedures, copies o f the PPAR was sent to
the Government o f Vietnam but none were received.


                                               ix


Summary

         Inthe early 1990sthe economy ofVietnamwasbeginningto expand rapidlybut
was threatened by constraints inthe transportation sector. Two important sections o f
Vietnam's mainnationalhighwaywere failingbadly, maintenance regimes were
inadequate, and institutional capacity inthe sector was weak. Inaddition, urban areas were
experiencing more rapid economic growth than rural areas and it was increasingly apparent
that rural areaswould needproductive investmentsto enable themto share more equitably
inthe country's impressive economic growth.

         The Governmento fVietnam (GOV) first approachedthe World Bank for
assistance inthe transportation sector in 1990, andHighway Rehabilitation Project 1 (HRP
1)was the first transport sector project to be fimdedunderthe agreed UnitedNations
DevelopmentProgram-sponsoredNationalTransport Sector Review. The project was first
appraised in 1991, buthadto be re-appraised in 1993 following delays inthe lifting o fthe
foreign aid embargo onVietnam.HRP 1was also the first Vietnamese project which
involved significant involuntaryresettlement. The project undertook the restoration o fthe
deteriorated nationalhighway, as well as ferry improvements inthe Mekong delta,
maintenance equipment, institutional strengthening and technology transfer, as well as
studies to improve road safety and strategic planning.The Rural Transport Project 1(RTP
l),firstBank-fhdedruralroadsprojectinVietnam,wasaimedatupgradingruralroads
    the
in18provinces andencouragedthe development o flocalcontractors and changesinthe
approach to maintaining rural roads.

         Together, these projects cemented the relationship betweenthe GOV and the
Bank through improved understanding o fthe policies and procedures involved in
extemally fundedprojects, includingbest practice for re-settlement and compensation o f
affected persons. Bothprojects also laid the foundation for longer term institutional
strengtheningand improvements instrategic planning and maintenance capability o fthe
road authorities inVietnam. Continuity inthese endeavors has beenpursuedin
subsequent highway and rural transport projects.

        The Highway project had a substantial positive impact on existing roadusers
through improvedtraffic flow andriding quality o f the county's major north-south road,
Highway 1A.There was also a noticeable improvement inthe level o f maintenance
support with the provision o fnew equipment andinfusion o f technical knowledge.
Institutional development impact i s rated as modest and the number o fpeople trained
under the credit was lower than expected due to the late start o f the training program.
Nevertheless, there were a number o fuseful initiatives that put inplace essential manuals
and guidelines andprovided an important platform on which to build future projects. In
retrospect, questions may be asked as to the advisability o f supporting only rehabilitation
andnot expansion o f future capacity given the strong rate o f economic growth
experienced by Vietnam, which has been sustained for over a decade. The buildingo f the
Hanoi bypass as part o f HRP 1and the subsequentwidening o f other sections o f the road,
suggest that the investment originally appraised was not optimal, but this hadto be
weighed againstpotential risks at appraisal such as uncertain future rates of economic
(andthus traffic) growth and the lack o f a track recordbetweenthe GOV andthe Bank.

                                               X



        The designandconstruct approach used, wherebyconstructionproceededbased
on preliminarydesign, was not consistent with normal Bank practice andresultedin
minor additional expenditures.The chosen designmethod was utilized on a "by
exception" basis, because o f the urgency o f commencing with implementation inthe
light o fthe rapid deterioration o fthe existingfacility; this approach has not beenrepeated
insubsequent projects.

         Similarly, despite a sound project appraisal, the implementation o f the
resettlement component was not successful to beginwith and only came back on track
(thusavoiding a safeguardviolation) after senior management intervention. People
erroneously evicted without compensation were traced and compensated and system
problems leading to late or incorrect payments were resolved. This underscored the need
for muchbetter communication at an early stage with all levels o f govemment in
involuntary resettlement cases as well as a very careful monitoring program to provide a
timely alert whenproblemsoccur. The Bank also needs to look closely at arrangements
for compensation "in kind"which may have to be designed to take account o f local
factors and customs inthe particular country concerned. Despite these comments, the
benefits o f the highway project havebeenimmediate and substantial and the outcome in
the endwas satisfactory.

         The outcome o fthe Rural Transport project was slightly downgraded to
moderately satisfactory, takingrelevance, efficacy and efficiency performance into
account. Inseveral instances the cost o frehabilitationper kilometer was higherthan
anticipated and provoked a debate about the appropriateness o f standards; a few o fthe
roads improved subsequentlyfailed. The institutional development impact was modest,
but didestablish the basis for further improvementsinlater projects which havenow
materialized. The evidence observed by the PPAR team ledit to conclude that
sustainability could now be rated as "likely" based on positive developments since the
ICRas a result o flater projects. InRTP 1,much o fthe discussion centered onhow to
impact poverty inthe most meaningful way and how to increase the involvement o f local
contractors. The nurturingo f emerging small contractors successfully met expectations
with an average o f 30 percent o f all contracts beingawarded to these entrepreneurs.

         A highly contentious and ongoing discussion betweenthe GOV and the Bank
was and still is the standard o f the roads and the preservationo fthe systemthrough
appropriate maintenance practice. The GOV generally favors higher standards resulting
ingreater cost perkilometer. Here, abalancehas to befound betweeninternationalbest
practice for low volume road design and its applicability in local circumstances. Vietnam
has areas that are subject to climatic and geological constraints andwhere after road
improvement a surprisinglylarge amount o f traffic may be generated because o f the
dense population. Intangible cost impacts caused by dust pollution and safety factors
regarding two-wheeled road users needto be factored-in during future appraisals. Each
case has to be looked at carefully as theoretical standards will not always work and both
parties need to be more flexible to find the best solution.

         The rural transport project complementedstudies on the effectiveness o f
infrastructureinvestments inalleviatingpoverty and showedthat the provision o f access

                                               xi


roads inrural areas could be a worthwhile mechanism inhelping to raise living standards.
At the same time the highway project emphasized the crucial role o finfrastructurein
supporting economic recovery.

The primary lessons from the experience o f these projects are:

    0  Where significant involuntary resettlement i s anticipated a special effort i s
       required at the outset to ensure that careful monitoring and excellent
       communication conceming Bank policies and safeguards takes place with all
       parties at all levels at an early stage inthe implementation process. This i s
       especially true for a new Borrower likely to be unfamiliar with such details;

    0  Where economies are inrapidtransition or recovering from extreme situations
       such as, for example, conflict or natural disaster, projects preferably should be
       designed to accommodate expected future capacity needs and not simply to
       restore collapsed infrastructure;

    0  When framing institutional and capacity buildingobjectives, the challenge i s to
       ensure they are achievable, that the Borrower has full ownership o f them and they
       are given sufficient priority early inimplementation; and

    0  Road standards need to be adapted to meet local conditions and a flexible
       approach used intheir adoption to take into account local circumstances, but
       without compromising the basic principles o f best international practice for l o w
       volume roads indeveloping countries.


                                                 1


1.       Background

1.1      Vietnam stretchesover 1,600 kilometers from the Chinese border inthe northto the
Gulf ofThailand inthe south. Itis a denselypopulated, mainlyagrarian country with 80
percent o fthe populationo f 79 million livinginrural areas. Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
growth has beensubstantial inthe past decade, ranging between6.6 and 8.5 percent per
annum,GDPpercapita isUS$1,996. Despitethe 1997Asianfinancial crisis, Vietnamhas
made significant progress inreducingits poverty incidence byjust over one-third since
1990. This success i s at least partly attributable to the implementation o f several
macroeconomic and structural reforms, including farm de-collectivization, price
liberalization, and limitedprivatization o f state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The economy i s
centrally planned, but has features o f a free-market system andhas successfully attracted
public andprivate foreign capital. A socio-economic development strategy for the next 10
years is now inpreparation.

1.2      Inthe early 1990sthe economy ofVietnamwas beginningto expandrapidly, and
this surge o f development had to be underpinnedby appropriate infrastructure investments.
Two important sections o fVietnam's mainnational highway were failing badly,
maintenance regimes were inadequate, and institutional capacity inthe transportation sector
was weak. At the time, urbanareaswere experiencing more rapid economic growth than
rural areas and, giventhe country's poverty reduction agenda, it was increasingly apparent
that rural areaswould needproductive investmentsto enable them to share equally inthe
country's overall economic growth. It was inthis context that the GOV approached the
World Bank for assistance inthe transportation sector.

1.3      HRP 1was the first transport sectorproject fundedbythe World BankinVietnam;
it was also the first involving significant involuntaryresettlement. The project undertook
the restoration o fthe deteriorated nationalhighway, as well as ferry improvements inthe
Mekong delta, maintenance equipment, institutional strengtheningandtechnology transfer,
as well as studies to improve road safety and strategic planning.RTP 1, the first Bank-
fhded ruralroads project inVietnam, was aimedat upgrading rural roads in 18provinces
and encouraged the development o flocal contractors andchanges inthe approach to
maintaining rural roads.

1.4      Although the transport sector inVietnam at the time HRP 1and RTP 1were
appraised was fairly underdeveloped and for the most part the road network was inpoor
condition, considerable progress has beenmade inthe past decade. Over 106,000
kilometers o fclassified roads make up the present network and the proportion o fpaved
roads has now grown from 13,000 to over 20,000 kilometers . These roads are better
maintainedthan inthe past, but significant improvements are still needed. Road transport
i s the dominant mode and the road freight industryhas benefitedfrom the relaxation o f
the previously strictly controlled allocationo f freight permits and tariffs. Water transport
i s also significant because o f the extent o fnavigable waterways (11,000 kilometers)
especially inthe Mekong and RedRiver deltas. However, these same rivers pose a
challenge to road engineers as they are formidable constraints to the continuity of the
road network incertain areas, necessitating costly bridges and ferries.

                                                       2


 1.5      The importance o f these early projects was also the opportunity presented to the
 GOV to strengthenits institutional capacity and to the World Bank to improve the
 effectiveness o f its support to Vietnam's infrastructure development needs. Inthis regard
 an important focus o f discussion has been adequate maintenance. Bothprojects have
 since beenconsolidated by follow-on projects and there has evolved a better
understanding o f what i s necessary to ensure that this sustainability goal i s achieved,
 including appropriate standards, budgets, staff training and road standards.


 2.       Objectives and ProjectDesign

2.1       The objectives and components o fthe two projects are shown inBox 1.

Box 1: ProjectObjectives and Components



Highway Rehabilitation 1

Objectives
        To raise overall economic efficiency and support economic recovery by upgrading critical segments
        o f the national highway network
        T o transfer modem road technology to relevant agencies through technical assistance and training
        T o strengthenhighway maintenance capacity by providing technical assistance and equipmentAll the
        above to lay the groundwork for a longer term collaboration between Vietnam and IDA in the
        transport sector.

Components
        Civil works involving the rehabilitation o f two sections o f HighwaylA from Hanoi south to Vinh
        (279 km) and from Ho Chl Minh City south to Can Tho (151 km). (US$ 112.4 m o f which IDA
        component US$ 97.8m; supervision and tech. asst. US$13.9 m; resettlement US$ 28.0m; IDA US$
        17.7m)
        New ferries and rehabilitation o f existing ones, as well as improved ferry operations at the two river
        crossings o f My Thuan and Can Tho inthe Mekong Delta (US$ 14.9m funded by DANIDA)
        Maintenance o f equipment for the Regional Road Management Unions (RRMUs) and equipment for
        the design and quality control o froad construction andmaintenance (US$ 10.3 m)
        Institutional strengtheningheform and transfer o f technology components through technical
        assistance (US$3.2) and training (US$ 1.8) for the RRMUs as well as training for highway personnel
        Studies to improve the sector and to select and prepare h t u r e road investment programs (US$0.6m)

Rural Transport 1
Objectives
        T o improve and upgrade access to rural communities and link them to the district and provincial road
        networks
        T o develop local capacity to improve the level o f service o f low-volume roads and to maintain them
        on a sustainable basis
        T o encourage the development o f local contractors.

Components
        Rural access road rehabilitation and maintenance using spot improvement techniques (US$ 50.4m)
        Institutional strengthening and training (US$ 0.2m)
        A studyo f issues relating to rural transport development (hndedseparately byDFID).

                                              3


2.2     Duringthe implementationo fHRP 1DANIDAofferedto finance the
improvemento f ferry services, which freedUS$8.5 millionIDA funding for re-
allocation. After extensive investigationthis amount was usedtoward financing
construction o f 17 kilometers of a 35-kilometer section o froad bypass along the Hanoi
South Development Corridor (HSDC) o f Highway 1A and the project closing date was
subsequentlyextended to accommodate the additionalworks related to this bypass. The
ferry services acrosstwo major rivers nevertheless remainedan integral component o fthe
overall project concept. Inthe view o f the PPAR team these amendments enhanced the
overall project.

2.3     Neither HRP 1nor RTP 1were subject to review by the World Bank's Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) and there was no formal process for reviewing Quality at Entry
(QEA). Inboth cases the ICR's indicated the status at entrywas satisfactory. Initially,
preparationmoved somewhat slowly due to the Borrower's unfamiliarity with the Bank's
policies, but "the leaming by doing approach" resultedinthe GOV steadily improving its
knowledge throughout appraisal. HRP 1was first identifiedin 1990 and appraised in
1991, but delays inlifting the foreign aid embargo on Vietnam meant that some o f this
work was prematureand the project had to be re-appraised before final approval in 1993.
This ledto preparationcosts for bothparties that were higherthan normal, butthis was
unavoidable inthe circumstances.

2.4     The only point conceming project design on which the PPAR team takes issue i s
the approach to future capacity. Senior officials inboth the Ministry o f Planning and
Investmentand the Ministryo fTransport indicated to the PPAR team that perhaps in
hindsightboththe World Bank and the GOV hadbeenoverly conservative inadopting
only a rehabilitation approach inHRP 1.They based this opinion on the continued strong
growth inthe Vietnamese economy leadingto the now already highlevels o ftraffic
congestion on certain sections o f Highway 1A, and the fact that the country has already
had to widen and upgrade some sections usingdifferent funding sources. The officials
also suggested that more consideration could have been givento the priority o f road
safety aspects, since the later-constructed crash safety barrier along the center o f the
Bank-financed road would almost certainly have yielded a very highERR due to the
significant reduction intraffic accidents. This view, o f course, disregards the uncertainty
and risk associated with the future and concern about the available capacity inthe
Ministryo fTransport at the time ofthe project appraisal. Nevertheless, the assessment
team concludes that a bolder strategy might have beenmore appropriate.

2.5     A number o fTechnical Assistance components were incorporatedinto HRP 1.
For example, there was a provision for general training for Ministryo f Transport staff
relatedto roadnetwork technical and financial management, including maintenance,
pavement design, bridgedesign and traffic safety. This was followed by selection,
installation and training inthe use o f computerized road andbridge management sofhvare
at the RRMUlevel. A further separate contract focused on a review o fVietnamese road
andbridge standards and the preparation o fnew ones based on intemational practice, but
adapted to local conditions. There was also a review o f the road safety situation andthe
preparation o ftraffic safety manuals. Additional technical assistance covered the
retraining o f Vietnamese transport professionals. This element included customized

                                               4


training materials to be deliveredby trained local experts andwas targeted not only at the
relevant GOV departments and agencies, but also at the road engineeringsector in
general.

2.6      A Resettlement andrehabilitationAction Plan(RRAP)was prepared in
accordance with OperationalPolicy (OP) 4.30 on involuntary resettlement. Assurances
were obtained from the GOV that the resettlement process would be completed in
accordance with the RRAP and ina manner satisfactory to IDA.

2.7      RTP 1on the other handhadno involuntary resettlement implications. Duringthe
period o f war and subsequent economic hardship the condition o f many existing rural
roads had deteriorated significantly. RTP 1 sought to work toward reversingthis decline
byrehabilitating some o f these rural roads. At the time of appraisal many rural roads
typically hadinadequate drainage, unstable shoulders andmissing or unsafe bridges.
About 30 percent o f district and over halfof communal roads became impassable inthe
rainy season. Rural road maintenance and support for the training o f local contractors was
seen as an integral part o f the project and routine maintenance for one year after
completion o f the rehabilitation was included inorder to facilitate the transition to a
better maintenance management regime. A study was also included inthe original project
description to identifyissues and establish guidelines relating to demand and investment
intheruraltransport sector. This study(theRTSS) was byagreement fundedbya grant
from DFID and the amount thus freed inthe credit was re-allocatedto civil works inthe
rehabilitation component. The World Bank also undertook a related Poverty Assessment
Study financed by Canadian trust funds and DFID grants. The study included findings on
initial impacts on living standards as affectedby R T P l project roads andwas useful to
the assessment team intheir evaluation. Therewere no major problems duringthe
preparationphase o fRTP 1.

2.8     BothHRP 1 and RTP 1 were prepared and implemented through the GOV
Ministryo fTransport, which has overall responsibility for national highways, railways,
harbors and airports; each mode managed by a separate administration. The projects, like
all donor-financed rehabilitation programs, were implemented within the Highway
Administration through Project Management Units- P M U 1for national roads and P M U
18 for rural access roads. Four RRMUsare responsible for maintenance at national level
and new construction i s undertaken by construction corporations, each comprising a
number o f small SOEs, whichbidfor work at all levels of government. Government
administration i s further organized indescending order byprovince, district, and
commune. Communal roads are maintainedby community-organized labor.


3.       HighwayRehabilitation 1(Cr. 2549)

Project Implementation

3.1      The SAR cost estimates for the civil works were estimated basedon preliminary
designs. Normally, inaccordance with Bank policy, the detailed designwould have been
completed before construction commenced. However, a combination o f factors ledto a

                                               5


decision to implementthe project usinga "design-and-construct" approach. This meant
that the initial contracts were signed on the basis o fpreliminary engineeringwith the
contractor undertaking detailed designduring implementation under the oversight o f the
supervisingengineer. The reasons for adoptingthis strategy are inadequately
documented, but the exception to policy was apparently made to speed up preparationon
a project that hadalready beeninabeyance for two years, inwhich time the old road had
deteriorated to such an extent that it was considered critically unsafe. Other factors that
had a bearing on this decision were the fact that PMU 1, which would perfonnthe
function o f "employer" duringthe contract, was not "up and running" immediately,
decision-making was initiallyvery slow, and appropriate road andbridge standards had
yet to be prepared. Moreover, the rehabilitationworks were somewhat less complicated
than new construction would have been.

3.2      The "price" paid for this short-cut was a higher cost component for supervision,
especially inthe early stages o f the project, and fmitless expenditurewhere redesign
work became necessary, for example due to insufficient geo-technical investigations. In
mitigation, the project was finished earlier than would otherwise have beenthe case and
local staff gained valuable experience from their involvement inthe "design-and-
construct" approach. Nevertheless, this practice has not beenrepeated inany subsequent
highway project inVietnam and even inthe additional contract for the HSDC bypass
detailed designwas completed prior to construction commencement.

3.3       Furtherproblems arose onthe issue o fresettlement. A socio-economic surveyo f
the rights-of-way affectedbyrealignment androadwideningto a standard 12meters,
revealed that 10,722 households would be affectedby the project, manyjust losing a
narrow strip infront o f their property, but others having to be fully relocated. The
affectedpeople were entitled to compensation and/or relocation assistance, dependingon
the severity o f impact ineach case. Families that neededto relocate were given the option
o f self-relocation or resettlement through the project. Provincial Peoples' Committees
(PPCs) inthe 10 affected provinces were responsible for implementing the Resettlement
and Rehabilitation Action Plan. About 11000 persons had to physically move in
accordance with this plan.

3.4 Although the GOV and the Bank had agreed that anyone living inthe right-of-way
was to be included inthe program interms o f OP 4.30, there was a mismatchbetween
existing government laws inVietnam and compensation principles normally adopted by
the Bank. A road safety decree was issued allowing for eviction without compensationo f
anyone living along the national highways without a pennit (deemedto be an "illegal"
person). The PPCs, who had no information on what had been agreed inthe resettlement
plan, started to evict people without compensation. Protracted negotiations were
necessary before the situation could be rectified. It thenbecame necessary to trace the
people who hadbeenevicted so that they could be assisted inaccordance with the plan.

3.5    Inthe mid-term review (November 1997) many affected persons expressed
dissatisfaction with the level o f compensationreceived and inconsistencies inprocedures
for determiningentitlements and making assessments. Data management was not
computerized and the interface between compensation data and accounting entries was

                                               6


unreliable. The review concluded, "the inadequate targeting o f economic recovery
measures, combined with delays inthe provisiono fwater and electricity services to some
resettlement sites, was creating hardships for many o f the more vulnerable families." In
the ICRitwas recordedthat some aggrievedpersons hadeveninterferedwiththe
contractor's work, including obstruction and damage to equipment.

3.6    This review stimulated a number o f changes and greater urgency leadingto
accelerated implementation schedules. Better communication and co-ordination also
eventuated. Clearly, the original levels o f communication and the capacity to co-ordinate
were inadequate, but the impact o fthe mid-term reviewwas sufficient to get the project
back on track. It was evident to the PPAR mission, nonetheless from discussions with
several govemment departments, that while at the highestlevel the principles o f OP 4.30
were accepted, many officials were still in disagreement with the involuntary
compensation concept for illegal^' households. When the PPAR mission met with
randomly selected resettledpersons by far the majority indicated that they were better off
after the relocation. However, a few individuals still felt aggrievedby the process and
believedthey were worse off than before.

RATINGS

Relevance

3.7    The relevance o fthe project is rated substantialbased on its close alignment with
the country's development priorities, especially with achieving rapid sustainable
economic development. Highway 1Ai s Vietnam's most important transport artery
facilitating the movement o f goods and people and underpins its economy. HRP 1,
through restoring significant sections of that highway, was highlyrelevant to the
country's economic priorities.

3.8    The project also represented an opportunity to lay the groundwork for longer-term
collaboration between Vietnam and IDA inthe transport sector. The newness o fthis
relationship presentedan element o f risk inmeetingimplementation requirements
because o f Vietnam's unfamiliarity and experience inusingIDA procedures such as
procurement, disbursements, and audits. Nevertheless, IDA had already been involved in
the UnitedNations Development Program (UNDP)-sponsored National Transport Sector
Review, completedin 1992, and the Bank-financedproject was fully inline with the
recommendations made by that review.

3.9   Transport sector strategy at appraisal agreed betweenGOV and the Bank was to focus
assistanceon the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure rather thannew construction
projects. This strategywas justified at the time because it was clear that the economy inthe
early 1990s was radically changing for the better,but uncertainties about the sustainability
o fthe economic transformationmade it difficult to predict future transport demand.
Nevertheless, worldwide experience o f countries transitioningtoward a market economy
has shownthat one of the first pressurepoints due to pent-updemand i s usually to rapidly
expand capacity for roadtransport through increasing the capacity o funder-developed road
systems. Therefore it could be arguedthat the conservative approach adopted inthis project

                                                7


may not have beenthe most relevantor appropriate investment strategy. Inthe view o fthe
PPAR team the failure to anticipate the hturecapacity constraints suggests a "high" rating
would be inappropriate and it i s on this basis that "substantial" was selected

Efficacy

3.10     The efficacy o ftheproject is also ratedsubstantial.The rehabilitated sections o f
Highway 1A (430 kilometers o froadway) were open to traffic by September 1999.
Records examined bythe PPAR team (including a "Monitoring and EvaluationStudy"
undertaken by consultants appointed by the Vietnam Ministryo f Transport), show that the
project had a highlybeneficial effect on reducing transport costs andtraffic congestion, and
on shorteningtravel times. Before itwas rehabilitated, the roadwas inan extremelypoor
condition with unevenandbrokenpavement, poor geometry, and potholed shoulders that
were especially dangerous inwet weather. Unacceptably longjourney times were
commonplace. Since the rehabilitation, however, some randomly selected users
interviewed bythe PPAR missionreported that thejourney between Hanoi and Vinh,
which formerly required an overnight stay, could now be made inone day .

3.11   The decision to re-deploy some fundingto finance the construction ofpart o f a
new HSDC Bypass was basedon the expectation that traffic levels along the nearby
rehabilitated section o f Highway 1Awould soon reach capacity and that further
upgradingo fthis congested section would be extremely costly, given the very highcosts
o f land acquisition andresettlement anticipated. This also suggests, however, that the
capacity issue had not beenthoroughly considered at appraisal (as noted inpara. 3.9).

3.12   The DANIDA-fundedferry component comprised the rehabilitation o f 10 existing
ferries and the commissioning o f two new ones. This work was completed on schedule
and the GOV expressed strong satisfaction to the PPAR team with the outcome. This
view was similarly noted inthe ICR.

3.13 A further small, but inthe PPAR team's view very important, portion o f the
savings inthe credit, US$2.1 million, was usedto improve identifiedhazardous road
accident locations (black-spots) along Highway 1A.This afterthought was certainly a
worthwhile investmentandthe program was extended and continued inthe subsequent
Highway Rehabilitation 2 (HRP 2) project. The traffic on Highway 1A includes a
substantial proportion of motorcycles and bicycles, resultingintraffic weaving behaviors
and poor road discipline. However, lack of reliable traffic accident data with which to
quantify the effectiveness o f road safety measures remains an unresolvedproblem despite
recommendations inthe Vietnam Road Safety Study, financed from HRP 1.

3.14     The credit also funded equipment for P M U 1, the Vietnam Road Administration
(VRA), andthe RRMUs.This rangedfrom motor vehicles and communication devices to
maintenance and road andbridgeinspection equipment. At the time o fproject closure it
was recordedthat all equipment hadbeen purchased and was inuse by the relevant
agencies. Spot checks by the assessment team verified that most o fthis equipmenti s still
inoperationand ingood condition andinthe view o fthe PPARmissionthe investment
was an essential project component. Inaddition, a computerized road andbridge

                                               8


management systemwas installed and staff were trained inthe operation o f the system.
Standards and specifications for roads and bridgeswere prepared reflecting local
conditions and road sector professionals received additional training through customized
courses. Supportingdocumentationwas translated into Vietnamese. Based on discussions
bythe PPAR team with various relevant parties this investmentwas clearly o fgreat value
to the Ministryo f Transport.

Efficiency

3.15    The efficiency o ftheproject is rated high. At appraisal the economic rate o freturn
(ERR)was estimated to be 89 percent, without the bypass component. The ICRre-
estimated the ERR at 38 percent, based on higher than expected construction costs, lower
than expected traffic growth and higher roadroughness (leading to increased vehicle
operating costs). Although below appraisal expectations this i s still a very good ERR. In
the S A R traffic was projected to grow by 15 percent annually, which is unrealistically
high-10percent would havebeenmore inline with other similar projects. There was
also inadequate traffic data on which to base the appraisal estimates The mix between
motorcycles and vehicles with four and more wheels assumed inthe analysis was
certainly questionable. Better data were available inthe follow-up project for HRP2 and
results from more robust surveys on clearly less busy road sections than experienced in
HRP 1suggest that thetruereturnfor HRP 1couldwell havebeenhigherthan 38
percent. Overall, the benefits were clearly substantial, taking into account potential un-
quantifiable beneficial macro impacts on the Vietnamese economy.

3.16     Duringan extensive fieldtrip, the PPARmissionobserved that at times the road
i s already operating at close to capacity in several places. However, the only estimated
ERRavailable for the HSDC Bypass (ina consultant's report) is 23 percent. A much
higherreturnonthis section wouldnormally havebeenexpected dueto the highsemi-
urban traffic volume, but the ERR i s reduced by increases inthe construction cost, which
for the first 17 kilometers increased by 55 percent. The increased cost was to
accommodate additional flyovers, underpasses, and a local access road (funded by GOV
since the provision inthe IDA credit was fixed). The calculation also included a further
section of 18 kilometers financedjointly by the Japan Bank for International Construction
(JBIC) and GOV. Inthe view o fthe PPAR team, the concept o f utilizingHRP 1to
include part o f the bypass for capacity reasons made sense, but by the end o fthe
additional contract there were so many additions that a rather different project had
emerged from that originally envisaged.

Outcome

3.17     Taking the above assessment into account the outcome o f the project is rated
satisfactory. Both the physical and the immediate institutional development goals as
definedintheproject objectives were achieved. The rehabilitationworks had a
substantial positive impact on road use, through improving traffic flow on busy sections
o fthe country's most important national highway. At the same time, the project was a
useful mechanism for transferring technological knowledgeto the relevant agencies and

                                               9


the new equipment and training that was provided enabled a noticeable improvement in
the level o f maintenance supportrenderedin subsequent years. The project also opened
dialogue with regard to the best way to sustain maintenance at a higher level inthe future
and this longer-term strategy has undoubtedly beenvindicated through improved
maintenance practice despite continuing financial constraints inavailable budgets for
roadmaintenance. Technical assistance components have beenincluded insubsequent
projects andprogress inmaking the best use o f locally available resources has been
encouraging. Although not part o fthe project as defined, future traffic capacity needs
were not addressed, except for the inclusion o fthe HSDCbypass section, which was
designedto meet latest traffic growth expectations.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

3.18    The institutional development impact is rated as modest. There was, for example,
unevenperformance of a number o ftechnical assistancecomponents financedbythe
credit. Appropriate manuals and training materials were successfully developed and are
still inuse, with the road and bridge standards now being adopted nationwide. The
software packages were also utilized successfully. Some local organizations such as the
Vietnamese Institute o f Transport Science and Technology were strengthenedintheir
ability to deliver courses reflecting international thinking andpractice. Moreover, some
benefits accrued from hands-on learning opportunities duringproject implementation;
local engineers, jointly with foreign experts, were involved insupervision of civil works
and local sub-contractors gained experience from intemational contractors to varying
degrees. Experience with international biddingprocedures was also useful. The
assessmentmission corroborated these benefits through several sources.

3.19    Onthe downside, however, the numbero fpeople trained underthe credit was
lower than expected due partly to the late start o f the program. This was inturn due to
protracteddiscussions on course content to ensure Vietnamese needs were specifically
met and due to delays insecuring the necessary government clearances. Ingeneral the
government was understandably reluctant to accept technical assistance without first
ensuringthat it met local needs and, second, that localpeople were involvedinthe
training. Several comments were made to the assessment mission to the effect that
trainingbyoverseas companies tendedto berelatively expensive at typical expatriate
hourly rates and that, while appreciating the need for capacity building, the government
preferredto finance such inputsthrough separate grant hndingrather than through
including them inloan credits. A sense o f urgency to give the institutionalcomponent a
higherpriority, however, was missing.

3.20     Only 44 percent o fthe allocation o fUS$7.2 million for institutional development
and 72 percent o fthe estimate for the training program were actually expended under the
credit, although the training activity did continue as part o f the follow up project, HRP2.
One area that deserved greater attention was that o f environmental performance in
matters such as site safety, traffic management, and disposal o fwaste materials. The
GOV hadrealized that it neededto introduce environmental legislation to comply with
international practice, but procedures for environmental assessment o f road investments
were only introduced into Vietnamese law duringproject implementation. There was also

                                                10


a need for data collection systems, especially inrespect o froad safety, enforcement o f
legislation and collection o f traffic data, but the resources and experience to mobilize a
program encompassing different departments across different tiers o f government was
still inadequate. Although a dialogue had commenced between the World Bank and the
GOV onthe need for upgradingVietnam's institutional capacity, progress under HRP 1
was relatively modest. Awareness o fthe need to improve institutional capability was
stimulated, but internalization of the knowledge on the effective use o f data, systems and
policy-setting i s a gradual process that could not have been achieved inthis first
highways project. Lastly, while the establishment o fPMU 1was an essential step it had
the effect o f creating a parallel system inthe Ministry o f Transport with different pay
scales andbenefits, which shouldnot continue indefinitely and inthe longrunwill have
to be resolved.

Sustainability

3.21     The overall assessment o fthe sustainability o f the project i s likely. When the
assessment team visited the rehabilitatedportions inOctober 2003 they had been fully
operational for 38 months and were found to be ingood condition. Problems encountered
were more to do with encroachment on the roadreserve by small businesses engaged in
activities such as dryingrice or hawking wares. A visual inspection showed little
evidence o fpotholes or cracking despite recent heavy rains. Maintenance teams were
observed inaction and markers were beingre-painted. The highvolume o f traffic,
however, was noted and it seems very likelythat the road will have to be upgraded by
widening before the road pavement itselfbecomes unserviceable. This has already
happened on the Ho Chi MinhCity to Can Tho component o f HRP 1where 40 kilometers
o fwideningto Trung Luong Junction has already taken place usingdomestic funds.

3.22     The PPAR mission found inall agencies a strong commitment to the effective
functioning and maintenance of the project fundedinfrastructure, especially inview o f
Highway 1A's strategic importance to the country. Ministry o f Transport staff have
received some training from international experts and are better equipped to plan and
manage the maintenance o f the highway. The manuals and guidelines preparedunder the
technical assistance allocation are beingused. Appropriate levels o f fundingwere
identifiedbythe PPARmission to havebeenallocatedto routine maintenance for
national highways, but periodic maintenance, while still a few years away, i s more o f a
concern and may to some extent be combined with upgrading (fundedby international
agencies) if, as expected, traffic volumes continue to increase at the present rate.
Nevertheless, the dialogue on necessary support measures to ensure sustainability begun
on this project have continued inboth the subsequent HW 2 andMekong Transport and
FloodProtection projects, while the issue o fprovision for timely periodic maintenance i s
specifically beingaddressed as part o fthe RoadNetwork Improvement Project currently
inpreparation, whichwill substantially improvethe likelihood ofsustainability.

Bank Performance

3.23    Onbalance, Bank performance is rated satisfactory,but there were some
shortcomings and inthis regardthe context o f the project i s important. This was one o f

                                              11


the first projects financed by IDA inVietnam and the Borrower was relatively unfamiliar
with Bank policies andprocedures. For this reasongreater efforts should havebeenmade
by Bank staff to ensure that inthe initial stagesthere was athorough understanding of all
requirements and safeguards, especially as involuntary settlement was involved. This i s
an issue o f supervision and communication.

3.24    A further issue relates to the manner ofpayment. Bank policy is that cash
compensation of those who are involuntarily resettled i s disallowed as part o f the credit
for reasons o fpotential abuse. Therefore, it i s preferredthat affectedpersons receive
assistance inkind, such as land, materials, or vocational training. Inthis project, the GOV
preferredto use cash for compensation insome instances and this matter was still
unresolved at project closure, by which time US$7.2 million hadbeendisbursedfor what
amounted to ineligible expendituresunder the credit. These ineligible funds were finally
repaidto the Bank inOctober 2003 after much discussion, but the PPAR team questions
why this matter was not resolved at an earlier stage.

3.25    Could closer supervisionby the Bank have avoided some o f these
misunderstandings? The Bank conducted 21supervision missions betweenNovember
1993 and March2001, an average o f three per year, but closer supervision and oversight
duringthe early stages on the delicate issues o fresettlement andcompensationcould
have ensuredmore timely intervention andmay have avoidedthe embarrassment of
permitting such a large amount o fineligible expenditure to havebeen disbursed. The
Bank may have relied too heavily on the monitoring reports o f a local agency and a
resident settlement advisor, both o f which reportedto the Ministry o f Transport.

3.26    The Bank may also needto customize some o fits "in kind" compensation
arrangements; what works inone country maynot work so well inanother. A typical
example i s compensation inthe form o fbricks. The supply of bricks locally according to
several PAP'Srarely met demand, so that "in kind"compensation hadto be paidin
installments. This created a secondary market for bricks, which were sold for cash at
inflatedprices. Moreover, inVietnamese culture, dwellings should ifpossible be
constructed ina "propitious" or "lucky" year and this gave rise to unforeseenproblemsin
respect o f storing materials and finding temporary accommodation.

3.27    Certain issues regarding the adequacy o f infrastructure design capacity and
fruitless expenditure inrespect o f the "design and construct" approach are also
questionable. On the other hand inthe end, all the project objectives were accomplished,
an additional contract was included after funds were made available by DANIDA,the
ineligible expenditure was repaid, the persons who hadbeenevictedwere traced and
compensated and Bank safeguards, though threatened at one time, were respected after
appropriate interventions.

Borrower performance

3.28    Borrower performance i s rated satisfactory. This represents an upgrade from the
rating inthe Evaluation Summary. Again, it must be stressed that this was a first project
betweenthe Bank and the GOV andthat there was a degree o funfamiliarity o f the

                                              12


government with IDA policies and procedures. While there was to some extent poor
management o f resettlement activities, late hand-over o f sites by the employer, and
problems with compensation payments these can all be attributed to a lack o fknowledge
o fBank resettlement policy and a lack o f capacity, initially, to organize and communicate
effectively.

3.29    Enormous strides were actually made duringthe project to rectify these problems
and insubsequent projects there has beena much betterunderstanding o f what i s
necessary. Although implementation did go awry at times, there was a commitment to
rectify problem areas as exemplified by the tracing and compensating o f the persons
evicted as "illegal". At all times the borrower's officials were positive and clearly wanted
the project to succeed. The counterpart fundingby DANIDAresulted inthe provision o f
an excellent ferry service and freed funds for the partial construction o fthe Hanoi
Bypass. PMU 1,overcame its initial difficulties and demonstrated an ability to master the
project scope inboth its physical objectives and increating a sound platform to
strengthen its institutional capability. The rating o f Borrower performance takes into
account all the above, plus the fact that the project outcome was satisfactory, the project
objectives were achieved and that the Bank could have been more proactive inassisting
with resolvingthe issues that did arise at an earlier stage.



4.      RuralTransport 1(Cr.2929)

ProjectImplementation

4.1     A great deal o fthought went into the selection o f appropriate criteriato determine
which roads should beimproved. Currently, the majority o fthe poor inVietnam are
located inthe densest areas o fpopulation (mostly urban or semi-urban areas, see Map 1
attached to this report), but with the country's present economic growth rate these same
people will probably escape the poverty trap ina few years. The poverty problem inthe
remoter areas, where the percentage o fpeople below the poverty line i s higher, i s more
intractable, not only because o fphysical location, but also because economic resources
are fewer inthese districts (see Map 2 attached to this report). These maps, which are
based on information from the Government o f Vietnam "Poverty MappingProject" using
data from the 1998 VLSS and the 1999 census, illustrate this point very effectively. It
should be noted that Vietnam i s a denselypopulated country and even inthe mountainous
areas substantial communities can be located. A simplified and user-friendly
engineeringdesignwas applied inthis project, which created favorable conditions for
small scale contractors to participate. Rehabilitation was carried out mainly on existing
road alignments with minor widening and improvements to drainage and structures. More
attention could have been given, however, to public awareness and communication with
persons affectedby the project. This item was not included inthe project credit and was
also not provided for inthe budget o f the provincial project management units (PPMU's).

4.2     Therewas reluctance on the part o f some road authorities to adopt the Bank-
advocated "spot improvement" technique. Both the rural inhabitants (randomly

                                              13


interviewedby the PPAR team) andthe road authorities supportedbitumenizing at an
early stage on the assumptionthat surfaced roads not only guarantee year-round
passability, but also are not as easily damaged as earth or gravel roads. There are,
furthermore, well-publicized accounts o f a World Bank-financedrural access roadthat
failed inDak Lak Province, where difficult climatic conditions are experienced.
Obviously, inthis case the investment cost per kilometer was too low, but this i s more the
exception than the rule. Roads (both district and communal) observed first handby the
PPAR team were mostly infair to excellent condition. None could be described as poor.
However, available information suggests that the standard o fmaintenance i s frequently
less satisfactory inthe more remote andmountainous areas. Cognizance o f the cost
involved intrucking insuitable gravel material inareas like the Mekong delta are also
part o fthe equation infinding an appropriate balance.

4.3      The other factor that deserves mentioning inthis context is the rapidly increasing
traffic volumes on many o f the roads upgraded with World Bank support. Although very
few traffic counts on such roads are made, some limiteddata are available. For example,
inBac KanProvincetraffic onthe SauHaito NongThuongroadincreased from 250 to
400 motorcycles a day after upgrading, while on the 15-kilometer PhungVien to Bang
Phuc roadthere was an increase intrucks from 0 to 23 and from 8 motorcycles to 80. In
Tra Vinh Province inthe Mekong delta the assessment mission was advised that some 30
percent o f the roads upgraded under RTP 1had now been bituminized andmore
surfacing was planned for the near future. This further upgrading was mainly due to
generated traffic, but also inresponseto the wishes o fthe public. A similar patternwas
found inBenTre Province. This illustrates that the accepted wisdom o fwhat standard i s
appropriate, andwhen, i s a complex matter. The highvolume o fmotorcycles, bicycles,
andpedestrians and the number o fdwellings immediately adjacent to the roads inthe
Mekongdelta and other densely settled areas leads the community to place a highvalue
on extemality costs such dust nuisance and safety. It i s the view o fthe PPARmission,
after numerous discussions with various parties at all levels, that the Bank's appraisal
teams should not neglect such extemality costs intheir analyses.

RATINGS

 Relevance

4.4      The relevance o fthe project is ratedhigh, especially as the GOVplaces rural
development - the principal focus of this project- at the forefront o f its poverty alleviation
initiative. Inthis context the GOV made the project a priority because rural transport
development was identified inthe poverty assessment study as a key element to
accelerate their poverty alleviation program. Analysis o f theVLSS shows that people who
livenear an all-weather roadhave higher living standards than those who do not.
Research further indicates that rural roads can improve access to better agricultural
technology, allow for more efficient marketingo f agricultural surplus, and provide
greater opportunities inother economic activities. Socio-economic benefits mainly in
education and health are also usually evident after rural road investments.The criteria
developed inRTP 1ensured that communities inremote mountainous areas and/or with
ethnic minorities also benefited. This was probably more beneficial interms o f poverty

                                               14


alleviation than would have beenthe case ifthe beneficiaries hadbeenchosen on an
income basis alone.

4.5      Rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance needs were first identified duringthe
December 1994programming mission inHanoi between IDA and the GOV. The
Ministryo fTransport was assigned as the counterpart agency responsible for project
preparationjointly with IDA and the objectives framed were fully inaccord with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The provinces selected to benefit from the project
were chosen on the basis o fpoverty criteriajointly developed. InSeptember 1995 a
poverty workshop consisting of representatives from the GOV, UNDP and IDA agreed
the overall project objectives including the development o f local contractors.

Efficacy

4.6      The efficacy o fthe project as awhole is rated as modest. Underthe project 4,403
kilometers o froadwere improved and upgraded against a target o f 5,000 kilometers; the
extent o f upgraded road was lower than planned, mainlybecause upgrading costs per
kilometer were higher than anticipated andpartly due to a devaluation affecting the credit
amount available. There was often a marked resistance to usingthe "spot" improvement
technique, with local engineers and community representatives pushingfor more visible
and comprehensive improvements. The rehabilitatedroads consisted o f 4,06 1kilometers
o f district roads, but only 342 kilometers o f communal roads. This district-communal
split o f 92%-8% was skewedmore toward district roads than hadbeenexpected during
appraisal on the basis of a desk study, when the split was estimated at 70%-30%. The
split that was actually used, emanated from an agreed prioritization process that covered
15 provinces - later extended to 18 - (including the 10 with the highest poverty levels). A
greater emphasis on district roads was logical as a first step, but the bias toward district
roads was also a consequence o f criteria that gave strong weightingto provincial equity
considerations. The PPAR team's assessmentwas that the rationale for the split which
effectively focused on busier higher order roads was not unreasonable for a first phase,
but also recognizes that the prioritizationprocess was improved inRTP 2 to focus more
on the poorer communities

4.7          The development o flocal capacity to improve the level o f service o flow-
volume roads was not achieved. It would be fairer to say that the project began a process
of interaction which has been nurtured insubsequent projects and studies and which
continues today. There was a disconnectionbetween the objective as phrased and the
resources allocated. Only US$0.24 million was expendedon this item, which primarily
covered the cost o f an advisor to the implementingagency, a monitoring and financial
system, and related training. The PPARmissionnevertheless found that many (but
certainly not all) o f the RTP 1roads were beingmaintained ina good condition. This,
however, can be attributed mainly to developments subsequent to this project. The
strengtheningo fthe capacity o fdomestic roadbuildingcontractors to carry out small
contract works, on the other hand, definitely met expectations. Some 30 percent o f all
contracts were won byprivate contractors, but the percentage varied from province to
province. No differences were found betweenthe abilities o fthe private contractors
versus those o f SOE's; any difficulties arising from lack o f experience were quickly

                                               15


resolved duringimplementation. The GOV, which initiallywas somewhat hesitant about
usingprivate contractors, acceptedtheir use when it was clear that there were no major
problems.

Efficiency

4.8     The efficiency o fthe project is rated as substantial. Inthe S A R an ERR o f 32.5
percent was estimated usingthe producer surplusmethod, assuming that the benefits
from improved roads and lower transport costs would contribute to a gradual increase in
paddy production o f one percent annually. There was also an assumption that losses in
the transport o f agricultural produce would decreaseby two percent per year. This ERR
usedinput figures ofcost perkilometer investmento fUS$7,200 incomparisonwith
US$10,789 actual costs as reported inthe ICR. Routine maintenance costs at completion
were also higher than budgetedandpaddy revenues were assumed to be slightly lower
than expected. The revisedERR inthe ICRbased on actual figures, was 12.7 percent.

4.9     Unfortunately, this analysis i s not as revealing as was intendedas it i s difficult to
distinguishthe real impacts o fthe roads from the macro impacts affecting agricultural
output. A more common alternative nowadays i s to use the consumer surplus approach
focusing on user benefits, but this was impractical for the project team because traffic
count records hadnot beenkept, as i s frequently the case for low-volume roads in
developing countries.

4.10    Nevertheless, despitethe caveats on the methodology, there i s no doubt, given the
backlog o f rural roads that neededto be upgraded and the prioritization method adopted,
the return was acceptable. The formal methodology used also did not take into account
the substantial social advantages which are an important element o f the poverty
alleviation strategy. It was notedby the PPAR mission that inRTP 2 a revisedapproach
was followed whereby different economic evaluation methodologies were used. Using
cost effectiveness criteria ina community participatory process the lower-order roads
were tackled first. This ensured abetter focus on reachingthe poor than was achieved in
RTP 1.

Outcome

4.11    Based on the above assessment and taking certain shortcomings into account, the
outcome ofthe project i s rated moderately satisfactory. Although this i s a slight
downgrading inrating it should be seen incontext as the first rural transport project in
Vietnam and the program which has subsequently developed has obviously improved in
an evolutionary way. The value o fRTP 1lies notjust inthe physical infrastructure
rehabilitated, but inthe platform it created on which to builda better understandingo f the
best way to use roads to have an impact on poverty reduction.

                                                16


InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

4.12      The institutional development impact is ratedas modest. It was really aplatform
for subsequent work inthis field. Fundsspent on institutional strengthening were a mere
0.4 percent o f the project cost covering the cost o f an implementation advisor anda
financial management system.A small amount was also usedto train provincial
Department o f Transport officials to assist contractors inmatters o fproject management
and supervision. This training was undertaken by the Center for Research, Consulting and
Experimental Construction at the Hanoi Transport University.

4.13     Inpractice, however, the besttraining was the experience o factual "hands-on"
participationby those small contractors who secured work. These contractors showed
themselvesthroughout the project to be capable o f implementingsuch works. On average
duringproject implementation30 percent o fcontracts were awarded to emergingprivate
contractors as opposed to SOEs, which were often inan advantageous position to tender
as they receivedhiddensubsidies. It i s interestingto observe that the value of awarded
rehabilitationwork to private contractors increased to 48 percent inthe last year o fRTP 1
and further increased to 61 percent inRTP 2. This trendi s thought to be due to the
enforcement o f a procurement rule from2001 onwards to the effect that SOEs under the
Ministryo fTransport and the project provincial governments were not eligible to bid for
this work.

4.14     Inthe ICRreference is made inthe Borrower's comments to the needfor greater
attention to public education and awareness as well as the needto strengthen the
capability o f PPMU staff to handle issues involving the environment, ethnic minority
rights and land acquisition.

Sustainability

4.15    Despite the fact that insufficient maintenance funds and lack o f consistent
maintenance procedures were identified as potential risks,atcompletion, sustainability i s
now rated as likely by the assessment team. This upgradei s based on actual observations
insitu, official records anddiscussions with various authorities. Despite a small number
of failures, most o fthe RTP 1roads (some o fwhich are nearly seven years old), appear to
be functional. Some have been surfaced and others will soon be upgraded. This suggests
that the sustainability o fthe project is a fact despite some initial doubts.

4.16    Because o f the relatively large backlogs inroad development at appraisal the
GOV was focused more onrehabilitation than maintenance. Nevertheless, duringRTP 1
it recognizedthe needto tackle the maintenance issue andinthis regardhas notbeen
short o f offers o f assistance. However, it must be understood that there i s a difference
betweenthe district andthe communal roads inthe way that they are fundedand
managed. Fundscurrently available for road maintenance at district level are intheory
adequate. The problem that arises i s that only parts o f the district network (including RTP
1roads) remain ina maintainable state, while the remainder have deterioratedto the level
where fullrehabilitationhas become necessary. Communal or village roads are
maintained by the communes themselves, using own contributions and communal labor

                                               17


days. Insome communities this works well, but inothers the motivation or leadership i s
lacking. UnderRPT 2, assistance was designed to support the introduction of a strategy to
facilitate a change inmaintenance culture inorder to encourage the more efficient use o f
local resources. This initiative was intendedto work intandem with the DFIDproject to
develop a Rural Transport Strategy Studyto assist the GOV to establish appropriate and
consistent standards, strengtheninstitutional capacity, and encourage international
standard road maintenance practice, especially for low volume roads.

4.17     Progress i s takingplace, but it takes some time to fully disseminate the
philosophy and ensure "buy-in" at all government levels. Road standards are a
contentious issue inVietnam. The various road authorities are sometimes reluctant to
adopt "spot" improvementtechniques preferring, inreaction to public perceptions and
perhaps insome cases to a lack o f knowledge, to be seen to upgrade whole road sections.
This was one o f the pressures to increase the cost per kilometer inRTP 1.

4.18    It is expected that the standards debate will be ongoing for some time. The
important thing i s to note that progress toward a better maintenance systemi s taking
place with strong technical assistance support. There i s also a proposal from DFIDthat
there be more co-ordination through the government with the major financiers o f roads in
Vietnam to ensure a more consistent approach i s adopted.

Bank Performance

4.19    World Bank staff performance overall i s rated satisfactory. The project was
declared effective within four months o f approval, but was not subject to a QEA review
by the Bank's QAG. Elevensupervisionmissionswere undertaken andthere was
continuity of staff on the project. The Bank providedconsiderable advice duringboth
appraisal and implementation. UnlikeHRP 1where resettlement was a major issue, RTP
1 hadno instances where people hadto be relocated. Compensationwas mainly for small
portions o f land expropriated; the project team took cognizance o f the lessons o fHRP 1
and no cash compensation was allowed usingthe IDA credit.

4.20    The objective to develop local capacityto maintain low-volume roads was too
ambitious as framed and giventhe magnitude o f the task should have been qualified.
However, the project was completed inthe originally appraised schedule andperfonned
very well interms o fdisbursements.Incomparisonto refinements made to project
prioritization, evaluation andthe approach to standards inRPT 2, aimed at benefiting the
poor more directly, RTP 1was less successful, but it laid the groundwork for subsequent
phases and created the right environment to make further progress.

Borrower Performance

4.21    Borrower performance i s also rated satisfactory. The Ministryo f Transport
through its Provincial Departmentsmanaged 809 rehabilitation contracts and 210
maintenance contracts, implemented in 18 provinces and on project schedule. This i s a
remarkable achievement given that this kindo fprogram had not been implemented
before inVietnam. Misprocurement was declared on two works contracts (violations of

                                                18


procurement guidelines) inthe amount o fUS$180,000 and the contracts were declared
ineligible for IDA funding.This matter arose from a misunderstanding and was
professionallyhandled. The amount after investigationwas not cancelled from the credit,
butmade available for other contracts.

4.22    PMU 18 responded efficiently onproject issues and followed up on all matters
raised. The ministry also hosted a stakeholder workshop to discuss the results o fthe
project with the provincial departments and this provided invaluable feedback for RPT 2.
Initially payments to the numerous small contractors took an average o f 41 days, against
a target o f 30 days. After special efforts to improve this situation the number o f days
reduced to 26 by the end o f the project.

4.23    Borrower performance at policy level was good and there was an excellent
understanding o fthe links betweenpoverty alleviation and rural transport investments.
Weaknesses were found more at the provincial level where the importance o fthe social
issues involving the public and the environment were inmany cases not yet fully
comprehended. A gradual process over several projects has subsequentlybegunto
strengthenthe performanceinthese areas.



5.      Conclusions and Lessons

5.1      Vision and Planning. Where there i s a large backlog ininfrastructure the need to
move quickly with an investmentprogram i s understandable. The challenge is to frame
achievable institutional and capacity buildingobjectives ineach project and ensure there
i s a phased approach to change. The sections o f national highwayfinanced under HRP 1
have experienced enormous traffic growthwithin a few years o f opening and are already
at capacity insome sections. More attention could also bepaidto issues such as the
accommodation o f and appropriate design for a highproportion o ftwo-wheeled traffic
and to give more prominence to issues such as road safety.

5.2     Economic Evaluation and Road Standards. Inthe absence of reliable input data,
projected ERRSmay be misleading and their estimation should be treated with caution.
Project teams need to be aware o f the latest thinking inthe evaluation field. Inthis regard
more weight could be given (even ifonly qualitatively) to including the macro impacts o f
large-scale infrastructure, where appropriate, and the valuation o f externalities and non-
monetarybenefits, especially inrelation to poverty reduction. The use o f varying
standards according to different circumstances inRTP 1was commendable, but could
have been applied with more flexibility. For example, the threshold o fUS$15,000 per
kilometer before a cost benefit analysis was necessary ledto too many projectsjust under
this threshold. Some o fthese low-standardroads failed. At the same time, though, the
borrower must be preparedto accept much o f the accumulated internationalknowledge
that has beencompiled on road standards and road maintenance best practice, including
preventive maintenance. The answers are never totally clear and have to be customized to
theparticular circumstances ineachcountry.

                                                19


5.3     TechnicalAssistance. It i s essential for the borrower to identifywith and take
ownership o f the technical assistance components and for the Bank to focus more
attention on them. Their importance i s often crucial to the long-term success o f the
projects, but they are sometimes neglected at the beginningo f implementation. The
borrower may acknowledge their importance or be extremely sensitive to perceived
value-for-money, especially when expatriate hourly rates may appear to be very high.A
particularly important aspect for the Government o fVietnam was to ensure that course
contents were customizedto meet Vietnamese requirements.Where technical assistance
i s grant funded it may have less ownership inthe recipient country.

5.4    Involuntavy Resettlement. The experience inHW 1underscores the needfor all
resettlement agencies to be actively involved inthe planning process from the outset and
for an excellent communication strategy at all levels. There i s also a need for frequent
and effective supervision inthe early stages o f implementationwhen the ground-rules are
clarified. Disbursementsfor compensation needcareful monitoring. Finally, more
thought needs to be givento compensation "in kind" to adapt to local circumstances. If
this aspect is not thought through and customized, itmayhave unintendedconsequences.

5.5   Design and ConstructApproach. HRP 1showed that it i s not worth while to try and
take short cuts by basing construction on preliminary design. This results in h i t l e s s
expenditure and additional costs, albeit inthis case relatively small.

5.6    The primary lessons learnt from these projects are:

     0   Where significant involuntary resettlement i s anticipated a special effort i s
         requiredat the outset to ensure that careful monitoring and excellent
         communication concerning Bank policies and safeguards takes place with all
        parties at all levels at an early stage inthe process. This i s especially true for a
        new Borrower likely to beunfamiliar with such details;

     0   Where economies are inrapid transition or recovering from extreme situations
         such as, for example, conflict or natural disaster, projects preferably should be
         designedto accommodate expected future capacityneeds andnot simply to
        restore collapsed infrastructure;

     0  When framing institutional and capacitybuildingobjectives, the challenge is to
        ensure they are achievable, that the Borrower has full ownership o fthem and they
        are given sufficient priority early inimplementation; and

        Road standards needto be adapted to meet local conditions and a flexible
        approach usedintheir adoption to take into account local circumstances, but,
        without compromising the basic principles o fbest international practice,
        especially for low volume roads indeveloping countries.


                                                21


References

Cusset, JM. 2003. Sustainable Transport and Social Acceptability of Policy Measures: The case
        of Hanoi. CNRS, Lyon, France.
LuuDuc Hai. 1996. Urban TransportPolicy in Vietnamon the Way Towards Sustainable
        transportation. International Sustainable Transportation conference, Vancouver, Canada.
Socialist Republic o f Vietnam. 2002. Decision of the Prime Minister, (State-Owned Enterprises).
        Decision 58/2002 and Addendum (Construction Industry),Hanoi.
Socialist Republic o f Vietnam. 2003. Draft Mapping Survey based on the 1998 Vietnam Living
        Survey and the 1999Population Census.Ministryo fAgriculture and Rural Development,
        Hanoi.
Socialist Republic o f Vietnam. 2003. National Highway No 1Rehabilitation Projects (HRP 1and
        HRP 2) Project Monitoring and Evaluation Study. Final report. Project ManagementUnit
        1.Ministry of Transport, Hanoi.
Socialist Republic of Vietnam. 2003. Rural Transport Strategy Study. Final Report. Ministry o f
        Transport, Hanoi.
Socialist Republic o f Vietnam. 2003. Progress Report of Rural Road Resurfacing Research,
        Phase II.Ministry o f Transport, Hanoi.
Socialist Republic o f Vietnam. 2002. The Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth
        Strategy. Doc. No. 2685NPCP-QHQT. Approved by the Prime Minister, Hanoi.
World Bank. 2002. Do Rural Infrastructure Investments Benejt the Poor? Evaluating Linkages:
        A Global View, A Focus on Vietnam. Policy ResearchWorking Paper 2796. East Asia
        and Pacific Region, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit.
        Washington DC.
World Bank. 1999. Involuntary Resettlement in the Vietnam First Highway Rehabilitation
        Project. Social DevelopmentNote N o 49. Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
        Development Network. Washington DC.
World Bank. 2003. Rejning Policy with the Poor. Local Consultations on the Draft
        Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy in Vietnam. Policy Research
        Working Paper 2968. East Asia and Pacific Region, Poverty Reduction and Economic
        Management Sector Unit.Washington DC.
World Bank. 1992. Rural Roads Maintenance. Review of WorldBank Operations. OED, Report
        N o 10794. Washington DC.


                                                           23                                              Annex A


 Annex A. Basic Data Sheets

 HIGHWAY         REHABILITATION PROJECT1(CR. 2549-VN)


 Key Project Data (amounts inUS$million)
                                                                 Appraisal                       Actual or
                                                                 estimate                    current estimate
 Total project costs                                             176.00                           186.67
 Loan amount                                                      158.50                          145.29
 Co-financing                                                                                      14.91
 Date physical components completed                             12/31/1999                      12/31/2001*
 Econotnhrate of return                                            89%                      38% (see para 3.9)
 *Originally defined project completed 09/30/1999, but scope of works extended to include Hanoi South Development
 Corridor Bypass.


 StaffInputs
Stage of project cycle                                                          Actual

                                                               Weeks                            US$'OOO
Preparation/Preparation                                         220.1                             605.1
AppraisaVNegotiation                                            32.8                              109.0
Supervision                                                     371.4                           1,480.8
ICR                                                             10.1                              32.2

                                                                 24                                              Annex A


       Mission Data
 Stage of project cycle                       No. of Days in Specializedstaff skills*           Performance Rating**     Types of
                 Month/                      persons Field        representeda/           lmpl. Progress Dev. Objectives Problems*
                  year                                                                                                      **

 Dentification/Preparation                      7           PHE, TE                   I
              Sept.5-26, 1990              iI                                         I                 1
 Appraisal/Negotiation                          4           PHE, DC, CSt                                I
 Sept.25, 1993                A~g.31-      11I                                        IIII              I

                              October      1                                           1                I
 4, 1993                                   I                                          II                II
 Supervision                  Novembe41         1           PHE                         j       HS      1     HS
                                                                                      I                 I
3-20, 1993                                                  TM, HE (2), RS(2),TE,               HS      I       S
                              January     Ij   8
                                                            DO, UP (c), RS (C)        II
                                                                                                        I
8-February 5, 1994                                                                    I                 I
                                                                                      I
April 26-May 31                           1     7           TM,HE,RS,DC,SC,RS                   HS              S
                                                                                                        ~
                                          I                 (C), up                   I                 I
                                          1     4           TM, HE, RS, UP(C)         I         HS              S
                                                                                                        ~

September 2-28, 1994                                                                  I                 II
                                          ~
                              May24-,          4            TM, RS, SrTE,             I         S       i       S
June 17,1995                                                                                            1
                                          ~                                                             j

September 11   -                         II     5           SrTE, HE, PFS, RS, UP (c)\          S               S
                                                                                                        I
                              October                                                                   II
                                                                                         ~
                                          ~
10, 1995                                 1                                            I                 I
                                                                                         ~




December 6-18, 1995                      1      5           HE, IE, SrTE, RS (c), UP            S               S
                                         I
                                         I                  (C)                       I                 I
                                                                                                        ~




18-                           January          9            HE, PFS, TE, HE, IE, RRA            S               S
                                         I                  (2), SrTE, UP (c)         I                 I
                              February   1                                            II                I
                                                                                                        ~




13,1996                                  I                                            I                 I
                              M a v 2 9 i      4            HE, IE, RRA, SrTE         I          s        \     S
June 13,1996                             I                                            I
                                         ~




        September 18-22 and              1      8           HE, ES (2), RS(2), IE, RR           S       II      S
        October 2-11, 1996                                  A, SrTE                   I
        January 28 -                    jII    4            SrTE, HE, IE, RRA         i         s       j       S
        February2, 1997                                                                  ~




        July 7 -21,                      ~

                     1997               i      2            SrTE, 00                  I                         S
        November 17-29, 1997             1     4            SrTE, HE, RS, 00          j         sS      j/      S
        June 25                          1     4            SrTE, SrES                I          S              S
        September 28
                -Julv-3,  1998
                                        1      7            SrTE, SrES, RS, TE(2),              S       I/      S
        October 9, 1998                 I                   RSS, 00                                     I
        February23 -March 12,1999      Ii      5            s,00
                                                            SrTE, SrES, RS, RS, R S   III        S              S
                                                                                      I                 II
        June 28 -July 3,1999           1       4            SrTE, SrES, RS, 00        I          S      I       S
        November 1   -5,  1999         1       4            SrTE. PS. RS. 00
                                                                 .   .   .            i          s      i       S
                                                                                                                -
        April 17-May    3,2000         j       5            SrTE, SrES, RS, 00 (2)               S      i
                                                                                                        1       S
        October 2-10, 16-21, 2000       I      5            SrTE. RS. 00 (3)                     s              S
        March 15-24,2001               1       6
ICR                                                         SrTE, SrTS, RS, SrE S, 0  I          s      i       S
        November 30   -                                                                                 I
        December 14, 2001              IIII
                                       i       8
                                                            0,RO, SDS, FMO            I
                                                                                      i                 I

      PHE=PrincipalHighway Engineer                              TE=Transport Economist
      DC=DivisionChief                                           CS=Consultant Specialist
      UP=Urban Planner                                           RS=Resettlement Specialist
      TM=Task Manager                                            SC=Senior Counsel
      HE=Highway Engineer                                        SrTE=Sr. Transport Engineer
      PF=Public Finance                                          IE=lnfrastructure Engineer
      PFS=Public FinanceSpecialist                               ES=Environment Specialist (2)
      RS=ResettlementSpecialist (2)                              RSS=Road Safety Specialist
      00=0perations Officer                                      E=Engineer, E=Economist
      FOO=FinancialOperationsOfficer

                                                            25                                           Annex A


 RURALTRANSPORT              PROJECT(CREDIT 2929-VN)
                                           1

 Key Project Data (amounts inUS$ million)

                                                                Appraisal                       Actual or       ~~




                                                                 estimate                   current estimate

 Total project costs                                              60.89                          55.77
 Loan amount                                                      55.00                          50.60
 Co-financing
 Date physical components completed                             12/3112001                    12/3112001
 Economicrate of return                                           32.5%                          12.7%

 'Or ginally 'ncorporated Rural Transport .nfrastructureInvestmentStudy now fundea by DFlD as a separate project ;n tne
 amount of US$1.35million


 Staff Inputs
               Stage of project cycle                                          Actual

                                                               Weeks                         US$'OOO
Identification/Preparation                                      57.6                          181.25
Appraisal/Negotiation                                           23.4                          130.65
Supervision                                                    155.28                         348.94
Completion                                                       10.0                          25.0
Total                                                          264.58                         685.84

                                                                   26                                               Annex A


   Mission Data

Stage of project cycle                No. of     Days in         Specializedstaffskills*       Performance Rating**           Types of
            Month/year                persons     Field              represented a/          lmpl. Prog.      Dev. Obj.      Problems***
IdentiRcation/Preparation          I         I           I                               I               I               I

                                   I     -     j   3             E; IE; CE               I               j               I
January 10-24, 1995                II
                                   I         i           ij                              I               I
                                         -                                                                               II
                                                   4             CE (3); IE                                              I
17-June2, 1995                May                                                        I
                                   I           jI        jI                              I               I               I

                                   I     -     j   5     I       E;OO;RS
September 25                     IIII        I           I                                               I               II
                              -                          II                              IIII            I               I
October 13, 1995                   I         I           I                               I
                                                                                         I               I               I
AppraisaVNegotiation                I                                                    I                               I
                                   !     _   !I    6     I       E; CE;TE; RS; 00;E      I                               I
January 31 -                                   j
                                                         i                                               I
                                             I
                                             II          I  ~

                                                                                                                         II
February 12, 1996                  I                                                     I
                                                         I                                               I               I
Supervision                         I                    1I                              I               I
                                                                                                         I               j
                                                ~

                                                                 TE;CE;RS;OO;DO                  S               S      I
February 19 -                      I     -     j   5
                                   I         I                                             jI
                                   I                     I                               II               1               1
March 1, 1997                      jI          j            I                              !              !               !I
                                    j    -     II  3             CE;RRE;00                 j       s         \    s       I /
October 7 -17,   1997               !    -                                                  j
                                               1   3        '1II CE,PS,OO                   i     s              s        I
                                                                                                                          ;
January 5-7, 1998                   I          I                                            I
                                    ~
                                                             I                                            ijI
        May 11-21, 1998             I          I   6             CE (2); TE; S(2); FMS     1     S               S
       September 21    -            I    --        8             CE;TE(2);A;SDO;FM               S        \I    HS        I
4      October 2, 1998                         i            11   s (2); 00                  ~

                                                                                            j             I               I
                                    ~

       January 18-31, 1999                                                                  I   S      i      H    S      i
       August 11-22, 1999                -         7             CE;SDS; OO(4);TA                         I
                                                            ~
        Mid-Term Review             iI          ~                                                                s
                                    I          I                                                 S
                                                            I                               I                            iII
       January10-21,2000                 -     jI  7        1
                                                            I    CE, OO(2);A;TE; RO,            S
                                                                                            ~

                                                                 TA                                       I      s       iI
        May 17-27, 2000            ,           j   5             CE, FS;OO; RS;TA           j   S         I      S
       October 23-                       --                      SrTE, SrTE; 00 (3); TA iI
        November 3,2000                                     I
                                    ~
                                   I           I
                                               iI  6                                            S                S         I
                                                                                                                           I
                                                            ~                               I             \I
ICR                                I                                                        I             I                I
       September 10-19,2001        II    -         8        1i   SrTE, SrTS, 00 (3), TA,        S         II     S         I
                                                                 FM0,DA                                                    II
                                                                                            I


   E=Economist                                         IE=lnfrastructure Engineer
   CE=Civil Engineer                                   TE=Transport Engineer
   00=0perations Officer                               RS=ResettlementSpecialist
   RS=ResettlementSpecialist                           ES=Environment Specialist
   DO=DisbursementOfficer                              RRE=Rural Roads Engineer
   PS=Participation Specialist                         FMS=Financial Management Specialist
   TE=Transport Economist(2)                          A=Anthropologist
   SDO=Social DevelopmentOfficer                      TA=Team Assistant
   FS=FinancialSpecialist                             FMO=FinancialManagementOfficer
   DA=DisbursementAnalyst

              I




,
     MAP SECTION


