Document of
The World Bank
iFOR OFFICIAI 1 I'SE ON LY
Report No. 12025-VN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
HIGHWAY RFHABILITATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 4, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and ma} be used bv recipients onJy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may net otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 1993)
Currency Unit   =   Dong
US$1.00         =   Dong 11,700
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                       3 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)               10.7639 square feet (ft2)
1 kilometer (km)           =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kmi2)  =      0.3861 square mile (mi2)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         =          Asian Development Bank
ADT         =          Average Daily Traffic
EIRR        =          Economic Internal Rate of Return
GDP         =          Gross Domestic Product
GOV          -         Government of Viet Nam
HCMC        =          Ho Chi Minh City
MOC         =          Ministry of Construction
MOF         =          Ministry of Finance
MOT                    Ministry of Transport
NTSR        =          National Transport Sector Review
ODA         =          Official Development Aid
PMU1        =          Highway IA Project Management Unit (of MOT)
RRMU        =          Regional Road Management Union
SBV         =          State Bank of Viet Nam
SPC         =          State Planning Committee
TEDI        =          Transport Engineering Design Institute
TESI        =          Transport Economic Science Institute
TSM         =          Transport Sector Memorandum
UK          =          United Kingdom
VNRA        =          Viet Nam Road Administration
VACO        =          Ministry of Finance's Accounting and
Auditing Company
VOC         =          Vehicle Operating Cost
vpd         =          vehicles per day



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SOCIALIST REPUDLIC OF VIXT NAM
HIGH"AY RIRABILITATION PROJXCT
Credit and Proact suar,
Borrower:          Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Amount:            SDR 112.2 million (US$158.5 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 40 years maturity
nroject
Objectives:        The objectives of the project are:  (a) to raise overall
economic efficiency and support economic recovery by
upgrading critical segments of the highway network; (b) to
transfer modern road technology to the relevant agencies
through a program of technical assistance and training; (c)
to strengthen highway maintenance capacity by providing
technical assistance and equipment; and (d) to lay the
groundwork for a longer term collaboration between Viet Nam
and IDA in the transport sector.
Project
Description:       The project would consist of the following: (a) civil works
involving the rehabilitation of two sections of the
country's main road (Highway 1A) from Hanoi south to Vinh
(279 km) and from Ho Chi Minh City south to Can Tho (151
km), and associated resettlement of households and
businesses; (b) new ferries and rehabilitation of existing
ones as well as improved ferry operations at the two river
crossings of My Thuan and Can Tho in the Mekong Delta;
(c) maintenance equipment for the RRMUs and equipment for
the design and quality control of road construction and
maintenance; (d) institutional strengthening/reform and
transfer of technology components that include technical
assistance and training for the RRMUs and training for
highway personnel; and (e) studies to improve the sector and
to select and prepare a future road investment program.
Benefit:           The primary benefits derived from the road rehabilitation
will be in the form of road user cost savings resulting from
reduced vehicle operating costs and time due to improved
pavements. The benefits should translate into accelerated
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Risks:             The main risks are primarily related to the newness of IDA's
relationship with Viet Nam. Lack of experience in using IDA
procedures such as those for procurement, disbursements and
audits could delay project implementation. As a first step
to minimize these risks, IDA will conduct workshops and
special training in these fields in Viet Nam. Also, MOT has
created and staffed a Project Management Unit to be
responsible for project implementation, including accounting
and monitoring and reporting of progress. In addition,
since no international contracting has taken place in Viet
Nam in many years, there is a lack of market data on which
to base cost estimates. Detailed analysis of project
requirements together with contract experience from
neighboring countries and international prices have been
applied to determine project cost estimates s1onc witn
sufficient contingency allowances. Lastly, uncertainty
about future availability of counterpart funds is reduced by
focussing on the highest priority transport investment
program based on a detailed review of the overall public
investment program by IDA and the Government.
Zstimated Cost /a                           Local        Foreign      Total
---------(US$ million)--------
Road rehabilitation                         13.48         75.01       88.49
Ferry operations                             0.95          7.55        8.50
Equipment                                    0.51          9.74       10.25
Technical Assistance
Implementation support                     0.18          1.62        1.80
Institutional development                  0.56          5.04        5.60
Training                                     0.60          1.40        2.00
Base Cost                         16.28        100.36     116.64
Physical contingencies                       2.19         13.46       15.65
Price contingencies                          1.53          9.38       10.91
Resettlement and rehabilitation             20.23          8.67       28.90
Land acquisition                             3.90          -           3.90
Total                             44.13       131.87      176.00
Financina Plan
Government                                  17.50           -         17.50
IDA                                         26.63        131.87      158.50
Total                             44.13       131.87      176.00
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY                                      1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
-------USs million) --------
Annual                                        5.0  27.0  56.0  34.0  29.0   7.5
Cumulative                                    5.0  32.0  88.0 122.0 151.0 158.5
Economic Rate of Return:            85%.
Povertv
Cateaory:          The project addresses the poverty issue only indirectly
through increased employment opportunities and improved
mobility.
Maps:              IBRD 23160 and IBRD 24400
/a   The project costs are calculated net of taxes and duties.



- iii -
SOCIALXST REPUBLIC 01P VINT MAN
HIGHAY BZAILITATION PROIYCT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  . . .   .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            i
I.     The TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting  . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
B.  The Transport System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
C.  Institutional Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           3
D.  Transport Policy  .   .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4
E.  Investment Priorities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           5
F.  Sector Development StrFt.gy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           6
II.    THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A.  The   Network  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  7
B.  Road  Transport   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
C.  Highway Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
D.  Highway Planning and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
E.  Highway Design and Construction  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
F.  Highway Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
G.  Staff and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
H.  Environmental Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
III.   THE PROJECT
A.  Project Background and Rationale for IDA Involvement . . .    16
B.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
C.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
D.  Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I    21
E.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement  . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
F.  Project   Costs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
G.  Financing   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  24
H.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
I.  Procurement   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  25
J.  Disbursement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
K   Accounts and Audits  . . . i . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
L.  Project Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring  . . . . . .    28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Viet
Nam in April 1991 and a re-appraisal mission of February 1993. The missions were
composed of G. Menckhoff (transport specialist and task manager for appraisal),
S. Sigfusson (highway engineer and task manager for reappraisal), E. Rankin
(sector economist), R. Iyer (institutional specialist), W. Lane (environmental
specialist), D. Strombom (consultant, procurement specialist), A. Ross
(consultant, traffic safety expert), T. Dong (consultant, training specialist)
and C. Corne (consultant, highway engineer). The peer reviewers for the project
were G. Menckhoff (transport specialist), J. Yenny and J. Cellier (transport
economists), and E. Irgens (highway engineer). The documents were reviewed by
Jeffrey Gutman, Chief, EAIIN and Callisto E. Madavo, Director, EA1.



- iv -
Paae No.
IV.     JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS REVIEW
A.   Road Investment Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    29
B.   Traffic    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  30
C.   Economic Evaluation Results By Component  . . . . . . . .                   31
D.   Risks    .    .     .     .    .     .    .     .    .     .    .     .    .    .    .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .     .  33
V.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . .                     34
ANNEXES
1.    Environmental Considerations ....................................   35
2.    Summary of Resettlement Action Plan .............................   39
3.    Functions and Composition of Project Management Unit ............   49
(including outline TOR)
4.    Implementation Schedule .........................................   54
5.    Supervision Plan ................................................   55
6.    Selected Documents Available in the Project File ................   56
TABLES
1.1  Freight Transport  (historical and forecast) .....................   57
1.2   Passenger Traffic ...............................................   58
1.3  Transport Sector Expenditures from Central Government Budget ....   59
2.1  Road Network Length Lv Road Class and Type of Surface at end 1992   60
2.2  Summary of Pavement Conditions of Some National Roads ...........   61
2.3  Registered Motor Vehicles, 1980 - 90 ............................   62
2.4  RRMU Network ....................................................   63
2.5  Staff of RRMUs 2, 4 and 7 by Category, 1991 .....................   64
3.1  List of Equipment ...............................................   65
3.2   Project Cost by Component .......................................   66
3.3   Project Cost by Type of Expenditure .............................   67
3.4  Schedule of Estimated Disbursement ..............................   68
4.1   1990 Traffic Counts ..............                                                  ................................   69
4.2   Financial Status of Ferry Enterprises ...........................   70
4.3   Ferry Vessel Characteristics ....................................   71
4.4  Traffic Characteristics .........................................   72
4.5  Vehicle Types and Characteristics ...............................   73
4.6  Economic Vehicle Operating Costs By Road Standard ...............   74
4.7  Economic Analysis Results - North, Base Case With Land Costs ....   75
4.8  Economic Analysis Results - South, Base Case With Land Costs ....   76
4.9  Cost Benefit Analysis for Ferry Crossing - My Thuan .............   77
4.10 Cost Benefit Analysis for Ferry Crossing - Can Tho ..............   78
CHARTS
1.    Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Transport ...........   79
2.    Organizational Structure of the Department of Roads .............   80
3.    Organizational Structure of RRMU2 ...............................   81
MAPS
1.    Main Transport System:   IBRD No. 24400
2.    Project Roads:   IBRD No. 23160



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographig and Economic SettinQ
1.1       Viet Nam stretches over 1,600 km from its northern border with
China to the Gulf of Thailand in the south; the total land area is about
330,400 sq. km. Its two densely populated river deltas, the Red River Delta
in the north and the Mekong Delta in the south, which are some 1,250 km
apart, are linked by a narrow (40-60 km wide) land strip defined by the
mountainous border region to the west and the South China Sea to the east.
1.2       With about 70 million people in 1992, Viet Nam is the most populous
country in mainland Scutheast Asia.  It is also one of the most densely
populated countries in all of Asia; its density of about 200 persons per
square km is close to that of India (250), though far below the level of
Bangladesh (760).  It is primarily an agricultural, rural economy.   Poor
growth performance before the introduction of market reforms and rapid
population  growth  have  resulted  in  persistent  povertv  and  widespread
malnutrition. Since 1988, with financial, pricing and market liberalization,
which includ<.d the allocation of longer-term land use rights to workers and
farmers,   the  agricultural   sector   (especially  rice)   has   responded
dramatically: For example, the delta areas (particularly in the south)
increased their rice surplus to such an extent that they exported an average
of two million tons annually from 1989-92, while from 1987-88, they needed to
import about  700,000 tons.   However,  other areas,  especially the hill
regions, remain poor, register food deficits, are often difficult to reach
and suffer from inadequate access to markets and government support services.
1.3       Viet Nam has abundant natural and human resources and a good
potential for long-term economic development.   However,  the economy has
produced substantially below its potential for decades, with the result that
the per capita income is estimated at less than US$200.
1.4       In the last few years,  the Vietnamese economy has undergone a
radical reorientation of its policies, institutions and structure, away from
bureaucratic planning and toward a market-based allocation of resources. At
the macro level, the reforms have involved sweeping changes in fiscal and
monetary policy that have succeeded in dramaticallv reducing the rate of
inflation.   Howevtr,  the budget deficit has not yet been brought under
control and further measures are required to consolidate the stabilization
gains.   Reforms at the micro level are aimed at decentralizing decision-
making and enforcing a hard budget constraint for state-owned enterprises.
B. The Transport System
1.5       Geography,  history, population and econoric management patterns
have shaped Viet Nam's transport sector.   Most places can be reached by
inexpensive water transport, and few towns are more than 50 km from the coast
or one of the 9,000 km of classified inland waterways. The classified road
network of about 105,100 km, with about 13,000 km of paved roads, is basic,
but not out of line with a country of Viet Nam's level of development. The



-2-
road and water transport system is complemented by railways, and major cities
are served by air.
1.6       Although total freight L_z-nae increased modestly s4% per annum)
from 1990 to 1992, total ton-km increased substantially in the same time
period  (24% annually).   According to racent statistics provided by the
Transport Economic Science Institute (TESI) and verified in the UNDP-
sponsored National Transport Sector Review (NTSR)II completed in 1992, the
annual total freight traffic was 185 ton-km per capita.  This is low when
compared to otaher countries (i.e. India at 334 and China at 869) and reflects
limited exchange among largely self-sufficient localities as well as the
absence of a significant heavy industry sector.  Passenger traffic is also
low, although Viet Nam's 262 passenger-km per capita are somewhat higher than
China's  (234).   Roads  account  for  the  highest  proportional  tonnage
transported (58%), followed by inland waterways (28%), maritime (9%) and rail
(5%)  (see Table 1.1).  With regard to passenger transport, most travel by
road (75% in 1992), followed by inland waterways (22%) . Only about 2% travel
by rail, and although only about 0.5% travelled by air in 1992, this has
become the faster growing mode (over 200% of annual growth since 1990) (see
Table l.2).
1.7       Most roads, railways and ports date back many years, were partly
destroyed or dismantled during the war, and were inadec'uately maintained
thereafter. As a result, most transport infrastructure are in a deplorable
state.    Even  facilities  built  as  recently  as  1965-75  are  severely
deteriorated, as their construction quality was often poor.   The bulk of
post-1975 repairs were carried out as temporary works, under financial and
time constraints; now, they need to be upgraded.
1.8       Transport equipment tends to be old and derelict.  In 1990, only
37t of railway locomotives, 45% of railcars, 48% of road repair equipment and
70% of sea-going vessels were operating. The situation was similar for
trucks, buses, river barges and port handling equipment.
1.9       As part of the economic reforms of 1989, the transport sector was
freed from rigid cargo allocations and tariffs have been adjusted to better
reflect the cost of providing services. As a result, there are now a large
number of state-owned transport companies competing for clients.   Also,
cooperative and private transport enterprises are being encouraged, although
their numbers are still small.   Although tariffs for strategic goods are
still controlled by the central Government, charges for other transport
services are based on negotiations.
i/   With  funding  from UNDP and assistance  from the UN Department  of
Technical Cooperation for Development and the Bank, the NTSR was
conducted by international consultants and staff from Vietnamese
agencies and institutes. It assessed all transport modes and proposed
a global  strategy  for transport  development.    This  report  makes
extensive use of NTSR data.



-3-
C. Institutional Framework
1.10      At  the  national  level,  the  Ministry  of  Transport  (MOT)  is
responsible for constructing, maintaining and operating highways, railways,
air transport and inland waterways and ports (except for a few specialized
ports such as those dealing with coal and petroleum). Since 1990, MOT has
been in a state of transformation, and most of the plans for the restructured
organization have been prepared (Chart 1); however, some changes are likely
to be introduced before formal approval, which is not expected until late
1993. The main goal of this restructuring has been to develop an efficient
organizati.rn that will be able to carry out the Government's objective of
enhancing economic development through market forces.  To attain this, MOT
has been divided into two main groups. One set of departments is categorized
as "non-productive" and includes functional departments such as those
responsible for planning, investment, finance, etc.; individual and separate
modal administrations (or departments) responsible for highways, railways,
waterways and ports and air transport; institutions which act as advisors and
also the research and design arm of the Ministry, which include the Transport
Institute for Science and Technology, the Transport Engineering Design
Institute (TEDI) and the Transport Economiz Science Institute (TESI) , as well
as a number of vocational schools.   The second group of departments are
categorized as "productive" and includes eight construction corporations
responsible  for  large  works,   including  major  repairs  and  capital
construction.   These  construction corporations  fall directly under the
Minister. This division into specific groupings is relatively new (1992) and
although the functions of the various departments appear to be clear, the
lines of responsibility between and among them remain less so. For example,
under the new organization, there are five distinctly separate Vice-Ministers
responsible for economic macters, capital construction, transportation,
science and technology and southern Viet Nam, each of which has cross-
departmental  responsibilities.    However,  as  the  structures  mature  and
elements are fine-tuned, some of the anomalies are expected to disappear. In
addition, MOT also controls the national truck, barge and shipping companies
and port operations, and regulates own-account road and river transport, as
well as a few locally licensed enterprises engaged in for-hire transport
nationwide.   Other ministries responsible for sectors such as industry,
construction, trade and mining have their own (sometimes large) transport
fleets and also control some specialized ports.
1.11      One of the major changes resulting from MOT's reorganization is the
introduction of modal administrations which will be responsible for each of
the  major  transport  systems.    As  a  result,  under  the  new  Highway
Administration, although there are still a total of four Regional Road
Management Unions (RRMUs 2, 4, 5, 7) under which sub-RRMUs are responsible
for road maintenance works and small repairs, major transport construction is
now the responsibility of the newly created construction corporations
(previously attached to each of the RRMUs). These corporations are grouped
into eight regional units and are assigned to their RRMU counterparts. In
addition to works carried out for the RRMUs, they are expected to serve other
administrations as well as departments in the MOT, and to bid on works in
other ministries, in the provinces and, eventually, in other countries. Each
construction company consists of between 10 and 20 enterprises and each
specializes in certain areas (such as road construction, bridge construction,



-4-
general construction, quarry work, supply and reconditioning of equipment,
etc.). To supervise works carried out by the construction corporations and
ensure quality control, each RRMU also now has one or more project management
units (PMU), depending on the size and complexity of the effort.
1.12      At the local level, provincial and district authorities perform
similar functions to MOT with regard to secondary roads, ports and waterways.
The Transport Departments of the local People's Committees are responsible
for road construction and maintenance; moreover, they generally operate their
own transport companies and are responsible for licensing transport
cooperatives and private operators.
D. TransDort Policy
1.13      AdaptinQ Transport to the New Economic Policies.  The Government
has been implementing a program of reforms which aim to improve transport
efficiency and create an institutional and financial framework conducive to
economic growth.   However,  these reforms will require adjustments  from
operators and officials.  The former will need to adapt to new marketing,
accounting and financial controls, if their companies are to survive; and
officials within the sector will have to address issues such as pricing,
taxation, subsidies, regulations and employment.   The Bank is preparing a
Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM) that will help the Government address these
and other sector issues.
1.14      Tariffs and Subsidies.  Transport efficiency has been improved with
the introduction of market pricing mechanisms and the partial elimination of
subsidies (which used to consume a large share of the Government budget).
Fuel prices, which before barely covered economic cost, have recently been
increased  (gasoline to 3,200 Dong/liter and diesel to 2,600 Dong/liter).
Despite these achievements, further measures are required to strengthen the
market orientation of the transport sector and help mobilize resources. For
example, key freight tariffs are still controlled by Government, and
transporters are indirectly subsidized as they receive receiving facilities
and equipment at prices below economic costs.
1.15      All transport enterprises have raised tariffs substantially in
order to reduce financial losses, and this has in some cases led to a shift
in the distribution of freight and passengers, from the railways and inland
waterways  to roads.   As Government no longer provides direct  funding,
liquidity and cash flows have become major management concerns.    Also,
allowances for depreciation and capital replacement are not being applied on
a consistent basis, if at all. Some enterprises, such as the railway, could
eventually require financial assistance from the Government. While certain
subsidies may need to be retained on social and possibly economic grounds,
they should be transparent and designated for specific purposes.
1.16      Pricing of Fixed Infrastructure.   In principle, the railway and
port enterprises must now generate their own funds to maintain and expand
their facilities. Roads and inland waterways, however, continue to be funded
directly by Government. Road and river transport operators are taxed like
other enterprises, and the price of fuel now covers its economic cost as well
as maintenance of transport infrastructure but does not cover rehabilitation



-5-
and new investments. Thus, these operators receive an implicit Government
subsidy under the current system.   In order to remove it and economic
distortions between diffeient transport modes, a system of road and river
user charges needs to be devised, probably consisting of surtaxes on fuel and
vehicles.
1.17      Eg2ilations.  While MOT controls access to the public transport
industry at the national level, the provincial transport departments control
access at the local level.  Current Government policy is to encourage the
cooperative and private sectors; this is consistent with the redirection of
the overall economy, and is expected to channel non-Government investments
into the transport sector, stimulate employment and, through increased
competition, improve the efficiency and quality of transport services. There
is, however, a possible conflict of interest which deserves close monitoring:
The institutions responsible for regulating access to the public transport
industry are themselves owners of transport enterprises and might thus be
reluctant to authorize competition with their own companies.
E. Inveotment Priorities
1.18      There iS an enormous discrepancy between the need to upgrade the
obsolete transport system and the resources likely to be available for
investment. It is estimated that Viet Nam must invest over the next 10 to
15 years for the rehabilitation and modernization of its transport sector the
equivalent of 2% to 3% of GDP per year in the public sector and another 1.5%
to 2% of GDP per year in the private sector. Thus, resources must be used
wisely,  with   the overall  objective of serving the country's  economic
development as effectively as possible. In the short term, this will mean (a)
rehabilitation of key infrastructure, (b) selective modernization of obsolete
equipment and (c) budgeting and institutional strengthening to upgrade the
management and maintenance of infrastructure.  If the economy expands at a
pace similar to other Asian countries, transport demand will increase rapidly
and severe bottlenecks could develop by the mid-to-late 1990s; thus, the
planning and design for selective capacity expansion is also a high priority
to ensure that the additional transport infrastructure is in place when the
economy requires it.
1.19      Optimizing investments is unusually difficult in Viet Nam for two
major reasons.   First, most previous transport planning focused on non-
economic criteria, and thus only a rudimentary transport data base exists
(compared to other courtries) .  Second,  the recent economic reforms are
greatly affecting key planning parameters such as the production of goods,
intermediate and final consumption, and economic transport costs. Thus, past
transport trends may not be relevant for forecasting future demand.   The
preparation of a transport investment strategy for the 1990s must therefore
be based on a careful evaluation of priorities and  at the same t_,ne be
flexible (so as to address situations quickly as they arise).
1.20      The current investment plan for 1991-95,  providing for annual
investments of US$105 million, is in a transitory state. It is based on the
assumption of substantial development assistance which has not yet
materialized.   So far, actual expenditure has been as much as two thirds
below planned expenditure, most of which was spent on roads for major repairs



and some new construction. Although its expenditure on road maintenance and
rehabilitation tripled between 1989 and 1992, this was still only about 25%
of actual needs. With the expected resumption of foreign aid, the Government
in proposing a more than six-fold increase in public investment over its
(notional) current level of annual investments. This may be too optimistic
in view of the country's projected macroeconom4 constraints and its limited
absorption capacity. A more realistic and sivtainable program would imply a
ot.ll very substantial four-fold (about IJS$400 million p.a.) increase in
public investment, 70% of which would Le for road repair and rehabilitation.
However, the areas that need to be carefully reviewed concern the
Government's investment strategy, the composition of the program, its timing,
costing and funding and the need to clearly reflect the interrelationship
between maintenance funding and capital investments. IDA has entered into a
dialogue with the Government and the TSM now being prepared (para. 1.13) will
address these issues effectively.
F. Sector DeveloDment Strateqy
1.21      Because Viet Nam's economy is changing rapidly, it is difficult for
transport planners to predict the scale and spatial distribution of demand.
Thus, the best strategy would ensure the adequacy of the trunk network and an
institutional and policy framework that will be responsive to variations in
demand.    Initially,  Bank  strategy  should  concentrate  investment  on
rehabilitating the transport network, principally roads and ports, where
demand is significant and the current level of deterioration causes serious
bottlenecks.   The strategy should also include strengthening those public
institutions responsible for providing fixed infrastructure, promoting
regulatory reforms that will stimulate private operators and helping design
pricing and taxation policies that will generate revenue and efficiently
allocate supply. Once the transport network has been improved to a condition
that can be maintained, the Government can focus on long-term major sectoral
investments such as for regional links, new port development and urban
traffic management. Such investments will require a deeper understanding of
the changing demand for transport and the TSM now being prepared will begin
the necessary analysis. Also, starting in late 1993, is a study, financed
under ODA of UK, to develop a medium-term investment and maintenance strategy
for intercity national and provincial roads. The objectives of the study are
to: (a) define a 10-year program of road, bridge and ferry improvements and
maintenance,   (b) estimate  budget  needs   for  road  maintenance   and
administration, (c) determine the optimum balance between investments and
maintenance based on assessed expenditure priorities under alternative multi-
period budget scenarios and (d) recommend a detailed investment and
maintenance program for the first five years and an outline program for the
following five years.
1.22      At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
by October 31 of each year, commencing in 1994, it will consult annually with
IDA on its development strategy for the transport sector, including planned
investments and related policies. The annual review would also include the
implementation of recommendations made by the TSM, the UK-financed investment
and maintenance study and technical assistance and studies financed under the
project.



1I. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.1           Viet Nam's public road network consists of about 105,100 km of
roads classified as nati.onal roads (11,400 km), provincial roads (14,200 km),
district roads (25,300 km), village roads (46,200 km), urban roads (2,600 km) and
special roads (5,400 km) (Table 2.1). Average road density is rather low at 0.32
km/sq km of land area and 1.6 km/1000 inhabitants.   Density in the two main
deltas is considerably higher, while the lowest densities occur in the highlands
along the borders with Laos and China.   Some mountainous areas are still
inaccessible by road.
2.2           Most of the roads are old.  In the north, they were built before
1954 and in the south little construction occurred after 1970. While geometric
standards are generally appropriate, construction standards are low, pavement
conditions are usually poor and road furniture is scarce and in poor condition.
Only some 10% of the network is paved  (see Table 2.1): 64%,  18* and 5%,
respectively, of the national, provincial and district roads. While no
information is available on the other roads, the amount paved is thought to be
negligible except possibly in urban areas. Data on road conditions is scarce.
The NTSR surveyed some 4,900 km of national roads and found that 13% were in good
condition, 47% were fair and about 40% were poor or very poor (see Table 2.2).
The north-south spine road, Highway lA, is generally in fair, although
deteriorating condition (55% fair and 19% poor), while the other national roads
surveyed in the north were in much worse condition than those surveyed in the
south, with poor and very poor ratings of 61% and 30%, respectively.   This
variation is mostly due to the difference in the type of construction used with
penetration macadam pavements in the north and asphaltic concrete surfacing on
crushed stone or stabilized base courses in the south.  The condition of the
lower class of roads is generally very bad with a high proportion that are
impassable during rains.
2.3           According to GOV statistics, there are about 8,160 bridges with a
total length of 168 km on the road network; this indicates the average length of
bridge is 20.6 m and that there are only about 1.5 m bridge/km of road, which is
a  rather  low  average.    The  condition  of  these  bridges  is  generally
unknown,although an NTSR survey of 2,220 km of Highway lA found that 715 bridges
have a total length of 32.7 km (i.e. an average length of 45.7 m, and 14.7 m
bridge/km of road) and that the bridges are in worse condition than the roads.
In the north, over one third the bridges were built as temporary structures,
while in the south, some 50% are temporary and in need of upgrading, rehabilita-
tion or replacement. Also, a few bridges on main roads serve rail as well as
road traffic but are only one lane wide; thus they cause major delays.   In
addition, many of the bridges in fair condition are old and designed for low
loads; therefore, they will not support vehicles over 10 tons gross weight.
2.4           The project involves rehabilitating/replacing bridges up to 10
meters long on the project roads, while OECF of Japan has appraised a project
which would finance the design and rehabilitation/replacement of all other
bridges on the project road sections.



- 8 -
2.5           Many river crossings have yet to be bridged.  On low-volume roads
in mountainous areas, many rivers still need to be forded, while other river
crossings are served by ferries.   The NTSR found 48 ferry crossings on the
national road network with river widths generally between 100 m and 500 m and the
widest one about 1,800 m. In most cases, these operations are inefficient and
use old equipment which needs to   be improved and upgraded.   The project
addresses problems at the two major river crossings of Highway IA between HCMC
and Can Tho (para. 3.9).
B. Road Transport
2.6           Motor Vehicle Fleet.   It is estimated there were about 219,000
motor vehicles (excluding about 1.4 million motorcycles, about 24,000 three-
wheelers and military vehicles) registered in Viet Nam by the end of 1990; buses
and trucks accounted for 31,200 (14%) and 145,000 (66%) respectively (Table 2.3).
Vehicle density is low at 3.2 motor vehicles/1,000 inhabitants but typical for
a country at Viet Nam's level of development. While the number of passenger cars
is low, two-wheeled vehicles (both bicycles and motor cycles) are extensively
used for passenger travel and for carrying small amounts of cargo. This is
especially true in the cities, but also on interurban roads. Some studies in 1989
found the average ratio between two-wheeled and four-wheeled vehicles was 2.78,
probably one of the highest in the world for interurban traffic. In the north,
motorcycles account for about a third of two-wheeled traffic, while in the Mekong
Delta, they account for about two thirds. The little historical data available
show the motorized vehicle fleet growing very slowly until between 1988 and 1990
when the annual increase was 8.4%, 12.1% and 22.4% respectively for cars, buses
and trucks (Table 2.3).
2.7           Traffic Volumes.  Average daily traffic (ADT) on the road network
varies considerably between and within regions, from negligible in the outlying
highlandr to about 11,000 four-wheel vehicles per day around HCMC.  The highest
volumes occur on the approach roads to HCMC and Hanoi where road capacity
problems are likely to appear in a few years. Compounding the capacity problem
is the very high number of slow moving motorcycles, bicycles (up to 34,000 per
day near the largest cities) and animal-drawn carts. Special attention needs to
be given to this slow moving traffic in the design of capacity-increasing
measures.   In addition, major roads are regularly used as drying grounds for
agricultural produce; further, vendors of produce and services encroach on the
shoulders and pavement in many areas, significantly reducing capacity and causing
safety hazards.
Traffic Safety
2.8           Viet Nam has a high number of road accidents with fatality rates
about 10 times higher than in neighboring countries and some 40 times higher than
in the more industrialized countries. In 1989, 2,112 persons were killed and
5;432 persons were seriously injured in the 5,968 accidents reported by police.
This is estimated to have cost the country about US$70 million (1% of GDP) and
such annual losses will continue unless action is taken to address the problem
forcefully. The major causes of accidents are the undisciplined behavior of
vehicle operators, bicyclists and pedestrians, the confusing and dangerous mix
of fast- and slow-moving vehicles, and the use of pavements for various purposes.
Also, inadequate laws and regulations for vehicles and traffic, their lax



enforcement (by the police), the condition of roads and absence of action to
identify and improve hazardous locations all play a role.   However,  GOV is
beginning to address the most critical safety issues and the project includes
measures to improve road safety (para. 3.7 and Annex 10).
Road Transport Industry
2.9           Structure.  Of the approximately 145,000 trucks in Viet Nam (para.
2.6), about 40% belong to the Government -- either MOT, which operates commercial
haulage fleets in the north, or other ministries, which usually carry goods on
"own account," although this is also supplemented with some commercial haulage.
The private sector (which includes cooperatives and joint ventures), accounts for
only about 21* of all trucks and 15 of capacity. Almost all private operators
have only one vehicle. Of the bus fleet, most are privately owned or operated
in cooperatives. These include tricycles, converted jeeps and minibuses. The
larger buses (39 seats and over) are mostly state-owned.
2.10          As funds for new vehicles are scarce, the truck and bus fleets are
aging; almost one third of the truck fleet and some 44% of the bus fleet are over
10 years old.
2.11          Weak bridges, mountainous roads and roads in poor condition, and
weight restrictions on many bridges, have generally led to smaller trucks (in the
range of five to seven tons), and smaller buses (under 40 seats), particularly
in the north. In the south, the situation is marginally better, although even
there, many bridges have weight restrictions of between 10 and 13 tons.  GOV
vehicles have the largest average size, while provincial fleets tend to be about
six tons and private and cooperative vehicles about four tons. This reflects the
more local character of private activities and lack of capital for investment in
larger vehicles.  The age and size of the private bus fleet also reflects the
general lack of resources.
2.12          Performance.  Trucks are heavily loaded and overloading by 15%-20*
is common. Trucks cover an average of about 25,000 km/year at an average speed
of only 20 km/hour.   There are virtually no major constraints on vehicle
availability, since owners have an incentive to keep vehicles on the road.
Spares can normally be obtained and workshops, although not well equipped, are
able to undertake most repairs. However, due to the age and general condition
of the fleet, breakdowns are frequent and down-times long, causing low
utilization rates; thus, a significantly higher number of vehicles are needed
than in many other countries.
2.13          Buses  outside  the urban  areas  are  well  loaded  with  average
occupancy of about 75%-85%. With an average annual utilization of about 25,000
km/year and an aging fleet,  availability is low,  typically about 60%-65%.
Private operators are licensed by route, but this is not strictly enforced.  In
the south, they are more involved in local services although provincial transport
enterprises are required to serve all main routes.
2.14          Economic  Regulation.    Deregulation  was  accompanied  by  the
progressive abandonment of price controls for the transport of goods. At first,
the transport of so-called strategic goods remained controlled, but since October
1990, only the official transport of rice (from the south to the north),
fertilizer (from the north to the south) and salt (to the mountain areas) is



- 10 -
subject to price controls.   Areas which have comparatively good operating
conditions have the most competitive markets; prices vary between commodities
according to the load-abilities of the products, and between regions, depending
on terrain, road, bridge and market conditions.
2.15          Road freight transport remains the most expensive transport mode.
Strategic goods cost an average of 370 Dong/t-km, compared to 131 D/t-km by rail,
118 D/t-km by river and 75 D/t-km by coastal shipping.   Prices are freely
negotiated between customers and transport operators.
2.16          Passenger fares are normally subject to provincial control, but
enforcement is poor, particularly for intermediate journeys. Passenger boarding
at bus stations are normally charged the official rate; otherwise, fares tend
to become a matter of negotiation between passengers and vehicle crews.
Minibuses and shared taxis are entitled to collect higher fares than big buses,
reflecting shorter waiting times and quicker journeys.
2.17          System Efficiency.  From a broad economic point of view, conditions
in the road transport industry are rather inefficiernt.  First, Viet Nam has yet
to take advantage of modern vehicle technology, especially the important gains
that could be derived from the use of large-capacity, multi-axle trucks operating
on strong and well maintained roads. Second, overloading beyond the structural
capacity of existing roads is widespread and causes serious road damage. These
deficiencies are mainly the result of inappropriate policies regarding road use,
in particular, with regard to vehicle and axle weight and dimensions and the
level and structure of road user taxation; further, they are due to the structure
of the industry, where some 80* of the truck fleet is owned and operated by
central and provincial governments which are also the owners and operators of
most of the country's roads.
2.18          Rules/regulations on vehicle weight and dimensions are grossly
outdated and inadequate. The limits are overly restrictive, although the reverse
tends to be true of limits and rules relating to vehicle safety features and
conditions. No limits exist for axle loads, but those for gross vehicle weight
are only 13 tons and 16 tons for semi-trailers; this indicates a limit of eight
tons for a single axle, while a limit of 10 tons would be more reasonable. The
vehicle height limit of 3.5 meters precludes the legal movement of ISO containers
on a conventional chassis. However, containers appear to move freely on roads
near the major ports, probably on the basis of exemptions to the rules.   The
overall problem is compounded by ambiguities and omissions in the assignment of
responsibilities for enforcement. Modern, enforceable rules and regulations are
essential and MOT, with bilateral assistance, is presently preparing a new
Highway Act.
Road User Taxation
2.19          Viet Nam applies three main forms of road-user taxes.   These
include those that are (a) purchase related (import duties on new vehicles, and
ownership transfer taxes when vehicles change hands); (b) ownership related
(annual registration fees) and (c) use related (import duties on spare parts,
tires and lubricants).  Also, the pump price of fuel includes a tax element.
However, the GOV does not know the amount of revenue collected from road users
or the way it compares with road-related expenditures. The relative contribution
of light and heavy vehicles is also unknown as is the contribution of heavy



- 11 -
vehicles compared with the road damage they cause. These important subjects are
among those being addressed in a Transport Sector Memorandum being prepared by
the Bank.
C. Highway Administration
OrQanization and Responsibilities
2.20          One of the major changes resulting  from MOT's  reorganization
(para. 1.10) is the introduction of modal administrations which will be
responsible for each of the major transport modes. When operational, the new
Road Administration (VNRA) (Chart 2) is expected to cover policies, planning,
standards and guidelines for the management and operation of roads as well as for
road traffic rules and regulations and road transport licensing. The four
Regional Road Management Unions (RRMUs) of enterprises (first established in 1982
and reorganized in 1992), which are responsible for maintaining roads and bridges
in the various provinces and urban centers, will also be partially responsible
for managing the national road network. The four RRMUs are RRMU 2 (Hanoi),
responsible for the northern part of the country, RRMU 4 (Vinh), for the northern
part of central Viet Nam, RRMU 5 (Da Nang), for the southern part of central Viet
Nam and RRMU 7 (HCMC), for the southern part of the country.
2.21          The RRMUs are in transition, with each restructuring its respective
organizations according to the latest directives from MOT (January 1993). The
main functions, however, remain the same (Chart 3):  They are responsible for
maintaining a portion of the national network (1203 kms, 622 kms, 1577 kms, and
1873 kms respectively for RRMU 2, 4, 5 and 7, see Table 2.4) . Each RRMU contains
a number of sub-RRMUs responsible for specific sections of road; for example,
RRMU 2 has a total of nine sub-RRMUs, RRMU 4 only three, and RRMU 7 has nine.
Prior to 1993, each RRMU also ran construction companies which provided the
manpower, expertise and equipment to carry out large scale repairs and capital
construction works. These companies have now been removed from RRMU control and
become separate construction "enterprises" which act as state-owned corporations,
receiving annual allocations of road works from the RRMUs; however, they are also
expected to market themselves for additional work and become self-financing. In
RRMU 2's region, for example, there are now 10 such separate construction
enterprises along with a Transport Materials and Production Company,
Transportation Mechanical Enterprise, a Materials Supply Company and a Survey and
Design Enterprise; all are under the ultimate control of MOT. The vocational
schools, health clinics and project management units (PMUs) remain under the
control of the RRMUs.
2.22          Each RRMU has operated independently and will continue do so, being
self-sufficient in terms of manpower and equipment but receiving funds from MOT.
The staffing total of each varies, from about 3,000 in RRMU 2 to 2,000 in RRMU
5 and 1,000 in RRMU 4. These totals have decreased significantly from 1991 as
shown in Table 2.5: For example, RRMU 2 reduced its staff by 2,000. All these
employees were assigned to RRMU 2 construction companies but in the
reorganization, they were reassigned and placed in the newly formed construction
enterprises. Each of the sub-RRMUs has an average of 200 to 300 staff.



- 12 -
Accounting and Auditing
2.23          Accounting practices in Viet Nam are established by the Ministry
of Finance (MOF), which sets standards and procedures for all ministries (such
as MOT departments, RRMUs, enterprises, companies and institutes); these are
administered by the Department of Finance and Accounting.   While the basic
accounting systems are acceptable, cost accounting could be improved, streamlined
and simplified through computerization. These aspects will be addressed in the
technical assistance to be provided to the RRMUs (para 3.12).
2.24          Viet Nam does not have an auditor general, independent from the
Ministry of Finance, for systematically auditing Government accounts. It appears
that neither annual nor other periodic audits are carried out; instead, there are
only occasional, internal audits. However, external audits may be called for if
a major problem arises. The MOF has an audit company which can be hired for this
purpose, but its independence is doubtful.
D. Highway Planning and Financing
Planning and Programming
2.25          MOT is responsible for the planning and programming of the national
network and to some extent, for the provincial network; the exercise is carried
out by its Department of Planning and Statistics with inputs from its Transport
Economic and Science Institute and the Transport Engineering Design Institute,
the RRMUs and the provincial MOT departments. A five-year plan for 1991-95 to
rehabilitate and improve some 3,000 km of the national network is now in effect.
The cost is calculated at 2,700 billion Dong (4,000 billion Dong if anticipated
loans from multilateral agencies are included) but is considered seriously
underestimated by NTSR.   Moreover,  lack of funds resulted in actual annual
investments of only about one quarter of the plan.   Priority works include
sections of Highway 1A but also Routes 5, 18, 14, 183, the Hanoi Airport Road and
some major bridges. Priority was established on the basis of various factors
including road condition and traffic safety, passenger and freight traffic,
developmental objectives for and potential of the region, and cost.
2.26          In addition to the five-year plan, annual capital and maintenance
plans are prepared for the network. The process begins in June of each year, when
the State Planning Committee (SPC) issues planning guidelines.  The RRMUs submit
plan requests to the appropriate MOT departments which review them in conjunction
with the Department of Planning.   The plans are then finalized by MOT and
approved by SPC in December, with specific allocations for major projects and a
lump sum allocation for others.  The plan for 1993 includes an allocation of
about 460 billion Dong to the RRMUs and the provincial MOT departments for major
repairs and construction, about 285 billion Dong for the minor rehabilitation and
maintenance of national roads, and an additional 360 billion Dong to the
provincial and local governments for all other roads.
2.27          Because of the country's long isolation, highway planning methods
are not very sophisticated, but the process is elaborate and bureaucratic;
financial constraints further limit the scope of planning. Technical assistance
under the project will begin to strengthen the planning and programming system
in the highway sector.



- 13 -
ExDenditures and Financing
2.28          Neither the total volume of highway expenditures, their allocation
to the various road classes and types, nor the structure of their financing is
fully understood at this time. The fragmented information available indicates
that, due to the acute shortage of resources within the past few years.
expenditures have been minimal and, except for a few main roads, most have been
gradually reduced. The GOV's transport sector allocations for 1990-92 are shlown
in Table 1.3 and indicate that expenditures changed very little in real terms
from 1990-92, but the budget for 1993 shown a healthy increase. The Government
has also declared it will give high priority to transport, and in particular, to
roads, in future budget allocations.
E. Hiahwav Desian and Construction
2.29          Design of major roadworks and bridges on the national (and probably
also on the provincial) network is usually assigned to MOT's Transport
Engineering Design Institute (TEDI), while the design of minor works, including
rehabilitation of roads and bridges, is carried out by the design enterprises of
the RRMUs. The design of major works is checked by one of MOT's departments;
however, all aspects of design need serious modernization.
2.30          Responsibility for constructing roads and bridges is expected to
be given to MOT's recently created construction enterprises as well as to MOC
(for a few specialized main works) . At present, the works are implemented through
force account and although GOV maintains it sometimes contracts works on the
basis of competitive bids, even these would be classified as force account.
However, some privatization efforts are underway and may prove successful in the
medium-  to long-term.   Construction equipment belonging to the RRMUs and
enterprises is mostly old or outdated and in poor condition as spare parts are
scarce and maintenance is minimal. This has serious effects on efficiency as
well as the quality of work.
2.31          Systematic quality control and site supervision is at a minimum.
MOT's Department of Science and Technology is formally responsible for quality
control but appears to be giving little attention on the sites until possibly
when the work is completed and a kind of hand-over occurs. Testing of works is
also at a minimum since only a few laboratories exist and these are badly
equipped.
2.32          The  result  of  scarce  and  poor-quality  equipment,  minimal
supervision and an absence of testing, along with inadequate maintenance, is that
quality is low and the life of works is short. Thus, the project will assist in
improving the quality by providing some construction/maintenance equipment
(including asphalt mixing plants), laboratory equipment for the design and
control of quality, and training of construction personnel, including plant
operators. (See Chapter III.)



- 14 -
F. Highwav Maintenance
2.33         Highway maintenance is underfunded and execution is substandard.
Problems include not only the lack of funds but also technical matters and
personnel policies and span the whole spectrum of planning, programming,
budgeting, design, execution, supervision and monitoring, which result in a high
cost to the economy.
2.34         The road maintenance enterprises of the RRMUs are responsible for
maintaining the more important half of the national road network, while MOT's
provincial departments are responsible for the other half and the Peoples'
Committees for the provincial roads. MOT, however, retains the responsibility
for planning the maintenance of the national network and also comments on the
appropriateness of the Peoples' Committees maintenance plans. In practice, MOT
has a strong hand in the upkeep of all road classes by issuing technical
standards and guidelines.
2.35         Maintenance expenditures for national roads over the last few years
have been estimated (in the NTSR) at about 25% of needs, indicating that most of
the network is neglected. Maintenance of the main trunk roads, such as Highway
1A, is intensive but of low quality, which, together with inferior construction
standards and type of pavement, results in excessive road roughness. Further, the
process of allocating and distributing funds is complex and cumbersome. SPC/MOF
issue budget guidelines and targets, while the RRMUs and prc incial departments
submit reports on need; the Department of Planning finalizes the maintenance
budget for national roads, comments on the one for provincial roads, and secures
MOF approvals.  The release of funds, once these are allocated, is routinely
delayed, causing difficulties in execution; however, in 1992, a system of advance
disbursements was introduced with some success. Moreover, the planning and
programming of maintenance is a difficult task, as no systematic information is
kept on road conditions and there are no records of maintenance activities.
2.36         Execution of maintenance is by force account and is highly labor
intensive.   The quality of work is poor because of lack of standards and
specifications for maintenance activities; also, equipment is mostly old, in poor
condition and inappropriate and there is a lack of supervision and monitoring.
2.37         Several measures to improve maintenance will be provided under the
project.   These include technical assistance to the RRMUS to improve the
planning, programming, budgeting, designing and execution of maintenance
operations, provision of equipment and training of personnel (see Chapter III).
G. Staff and Training
2.38         MOT and its agencies, institutes and unions have highly qualified
personnel, but suffer from a serious technological gap due to the country's long
isolation from international experience. The ministry and its entities have been
heavily overstaffed. Prior to 1993, the RRMUs and the construction unions each
had between 3,600 and 7,200 staff (Table 2.5) and the total number of MOT
professional staff was around 12,000. Serious efforts to reduce the staff are
underway as part of MOT's restructuring although the results are still unclear.



- 15 -
2.39          Training is a major element of MOT's human resource management and
is under the Department of Training but within training programs provided by
universities, vocational schools or other Government training facilities. MOT
employees receive substantial classroom and on-the-job training in subjects
ranging from engineering to pothole patchinL,.  There is, however, a need for
updating and modernizing the expertise of all staff. The project will provide
training of RMMU and other ministry staff (paras. 3.13, 3.19 and Annex 7).
H. Environmental Considerations
2.40          Viet Nam is just beginning to develop its environmental laws and
institutions.    Until  recently,  the  Department  of  Natural  Resources  and
Environment within the Institute of Science and Technology was responsible for
MOT's environmental functions. In September/October 1992, a Ministry of Science,
Technology and Environment was created by the National Assembly; however, its
functions have not yet been finalized.   The environmental arm of this new
ministry has a staff of about 20, some of whom have had international training.
2.41          The current draft environmental legislation, prepared with the
assistance of the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources (IUCN) will be submitted to the National Assembly for approval by the
end of 1993. Environmental assessment of many development projects is, however,
presently required under a Decree of the Office of the Prime Minister.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.. Prolect Background and Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.1          After  decades  of  war  and  economic  stagnation,  Viet  Nam's
infrastructure is seriously deteriorated and threatens to hamper the country's
economic recovery. Transport, in particular, has been identified as a critical
area of concern and the Government has requested IDA assistance to rehabilitate
the main highway network.   IDA's 1990 economic report and the UNDP-sponsored
National Transport Sector Report supported the high priority of highway
rehabilitation. While over 70% of the national network is already in poor or
rapidly deteriorating condition, Highway lA, the spine road of the country and
the major north-south access, is the most important route requiring immediate
attention. IDA missions visited Viet Nam between March 1990 and February 1993
and prepared the project in close collaboration with Government staff and with
the assistance of international consultants funded by various bilateral grants.
3.2          The main focus of IDA's initial lending operations is directed at
upgrading the country's infrastructure, particularly the transport and energy
systems. The amount of funding required and IDA's comparative advantage through
experience with similar projects elsewhere underscore the appropriateness of
IDA's role and the lending strategy. Already, the proposed project has helped
reintroduce the country to international assistance and influence in the
transport sector, overcoming years of isolation. Thus, IDA's role goes beyond
the specific investment proposed to the longer term development of sector
institutions, policies, and human resources. The investment strategy which this
project supports is directed at spreading resources to upgrade as much of the
transport network as possible in a relatively short period of time.
B. Proiect Obiectives
3.3          The objectives of the project are:  (a) to raise overall economic
efficiency and support economic recovery by upgrading critical segments of the
national highway network; (b) to transfer modern road technology to the relevant
agencies through a program of technical assistance and training; (c) to
strengthen highway maintenance capacity by providing technical assistance and
equipment. In addition, the project would lay the groundwork for a longer term
collaboration between Viet Nam and IDA in the transport sector.
C. Prolect Description
3.4          The proposed project would provide the following over a six-year
period:
(a) civil works involving the rehabilitation of selected sections
of the country's main road (Highway lA), including the two
sections from Hanoi south to Vinh (279 km) and from Ho Chi



- 17 -
Minh City south to Can Tho (151 km), and associated
resettlement of households and businesses;
(b) new ferries and rehabilitation of existing ones as well as
improved ferry operations at the two river crossings of
My Thuan and Can Tho in the Mekong Delta;
(c)  maintenance equipment for the RRMUs and equipment for the
design and quality control of road construction and
maintenance;
(d) institutional strengthening/reform and transfer of technology
components that include technical assistance and training for
the RRMUs and training for highway personnel; and
(e) studies to improve the sector and to select and prepare a
future road investment program.
Highway Rehabilitation
3.5           Scope and Location.  Highway lA is the country's main trunk road
and extends over 2,100 km from the Chinese border in the north through the Mekong
Delta in the south.   The project would focus on two sections which have the
highest traffic volumes:  (a) a northern section of 279 km which connects Hanoi,
the capital, to Vinh, and serves about 16 million inhabitants and (b) a southern
section of 151 km which links Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC), the main city in the
south, with Can Tho, the main commercial center in the rice rich Mekong delta,
and serves about 15 million inhabitants. Additional sections of Highway lA, if
any, to be to be rehabilitated under the project, would be selected on the basis
of economic, engineering, environmental and social criteria acceptable to IDA.
3.6           Type of Works.  The rehabilitation would be carried out on existing
alignments except where realignment of short sections is required to eliminate
known safety hazards.   Traffic volumes vary between 815 and 4,300 vpd, the
highest occurring just south of Ho Chi Minh City. During construction, minimum
inconvenience would be achieved by having the work carried out on relatively
short sections of one lane, while the two-way traffic alternately uses the other
lane. The rehabilitation would be designed for a 10-year lifetime and would
generally comprise, as required: (a) bituminous pavement overlays or seal coats,
(b) some raising of embankments in areas subject to frequent flooding,
(c) widening and paving of shoulders, (d) improving. or replacing culverts and
short bridges,'  (e)  improving side drains,  (f)  introducing  traffic  safety
features and (g) improving signs and road markings. The standard roadway width
would be 7.0 m (wider through towns and villages); shoulders would be paved for
a width of from 1.5 m to 2.5 m on each side, depending on the volume of bicycle
traffic.    Pavement  thickness would be designed on the basis  of existing
1 OECF of Japan has appraised a project which wai.l finance the
rehabilitation/replacement and associated preparatory expenditures of all
bridges over 10 m long on the sections to be rehabilitated.



- le -
conditions (measured deflection under load) and traffic volume and loadings
projected for the next 10 years.
3.7           Pavements (including surfacing of shoulders), bridges and culverts
are accurately designed and their quantities defined, while only provisional
quantities (based on random samples and averages from similar contracts completed
elsewhere) are provided for other elements of a more simple nature. Final design
of these elements would be carried out on site as work progresses. As their cost
is generally less than 20% of the total cost of the works, even relatively wide
variations in these quantities would have little effect on final costs.
3.8           Supervision of Construction.  Supervision and quality control of
project-financed civil works would be carried out by international consultants.
For this purpose, the project provides for 540 person-months of consulting
services, which is significantly more than normal for similar works in other
countries; however, these are needed because of Viet Nam's lack of experience in
executing international contracts.
Improvements to Ferry Crossings
3.9          At the My Thuan and Can T.o  (also referred to as Hau Giang)
crossings of the Mekong river, the existing ferries are old, mostly small
(100 tons) and increasingly unaLle to meet the rapidly growing traffic demand.
Their capacity is already inadequate to serve traffic during peak hours, which,
together with inadequate access to on- and off-loading, results in long queues
for vehicles waiting to cross the rivers. The project would therefore provide
four new 200-ton vessels for these two crossings and would rehabilitate
10 ferries. In addition, ship-to-ship-to-shore communications systems would be
installed in each vessel and the approach routes and terminals would be improved.
The project would provide for some spare parts and engines as well as 12 person-
months of consultant services to supervise the construction of new ferries and
the rehabilitation of older ones. Further, the project would provide for
20 person-months of advisory services and some small investments to improve
traffic management, vessel utilization and operational efficiency in general.
This assistance will be given to RRMU 7, which operates the ferries.
Ecuipment
3.10          In order to improve the operations of MOT and its four RRMUs, the
project would finance the procurement of the following: (a) a small fleet of
plant to supplement that which exists and to improve the capacity, efficiency and
quality of the RRMUs' road maintenance; (b) equipment for TEDI's laboratories and
design offices in Hanoi and HCMC to improve the design and quality control of
hot-mix bituminous surfacings and other rehabilitation and maintenance
activities; (c) ten automatic traffic counters/classifiers and one set of weigh-
in motion equipment for TEDI; (d) three weighbridges for the RRMUs to control
overloading of trucks; and (e) office equipment for PMUl. A detailed list of the
first lot of equipment to be provided under the project was agreed with
Government at negotiations (Table 3.1), while later lots will be agreed on the
basis of recommendations made by technical assistance teams.



- 19 -
Technical Assistance
3.11          Imnlementation  SuDoort  and  Prolect  PreoAration.  Significant
assistance is needed for the implementing agencies for project execution and
preparation of future projects.
3.12          For the Highway lA Project Management Unit (PMUl).  The PMUl will
need significant expert assistance in order to carry out its functions during
project  implementation  (para.  3.25).   Thus,  the project provides  for two
international advisors, an engineer/contract specialist for about three years and
a financial specialist as well as for short-term specialists, for a total of 82
person-months. This component will also provide for technical assistance to PMUl
to have the project accounts audited annually by independent auditors.
3.13          For the training program.  Many agencies will be involved in the
training program and significant assistance is required to identify, prepare and
implement  the  program.    The  project  provides  for  international  training
specialists to (a) assist MOT to identify in detail the priority needs of the
transport sector and (b) together with MOT's Training Department, prepare
training programs and courses; about ten person-months of international
consultant services would be provided.
3.14          For feasibility and engineering studies. Feasibility studies would
be carried out for some 1000 km of high priority road sections (including bridges
and other river crossing facilities), selected from an investment program already
agreed upon with Government on the basis of the conclusions of the UK financed
investment study (para. 1.21). Based on the feasibility studies, about 500 to
600 km would be selected for subsequent detailed engineering and preparation of
tender documents; about 200 person-months of international consultant services
would be provided.
3.15          Institutional   Development   (Capacitv  BuildinQ).        Technical
assistance for three studies will be provided to achieve improvements in the
following fields:
(a)  For the RRMUs (i) to study possible improvements to road management
through reorganization, installation of new systems and tools for
planning, programming, budgeting and accounting and training of staff
to use these new tools and systems; (ii) to develop appropriate methods
to execute routine and periodic maintenance, identify the resources
needed and davelop programming and budgeting systems and (iii) to devise
and implement quality control procedures for road construction and
maintenance. To this end, about 230 person-months of international
consultant services will be included;
(b) To study and evaluate MOT's (i) current planning methodologies,
(ii) design and engineering criteria/standards and (iii) construction
standards and practices for roads and bridges; and (iv) to prepare
recommendations for improvements where required.   To this end, about
30 person-months of international consultant services will be included;



- 20 -
(c) To study road safety and traffic enforcement aspects so as to establish
an accident data system and procedures/practices to identify and improve
hazardous locations on national roads, improve enforcement capabilities,
introduce safety audits on new and rehabilitated roads and establish a
prioritized and costed action plan to improve road safety. To this end,
about 20 person-months of international consultant services will be
included.
3.16          At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
technical assistance, including the supervision of road construction (para. 3.8),
construction of ferries and ferry operations (para. 3.9), and studies, will be
carried out in accordance with terms of reference (outline TORs are available in
the Project File) and timing satisfactory to IDA. These services are expected
to be carried out by international consultant firms and, for the three studies,
qualified local professionals will be assigned to these firms as counterparts to
the extent possible and practical.
Training
3.17          In addition to the formal and on-the-job training conducted under
the various technical assistance services and studies described above, the
project would finance a training program consisting of overseas and in-country
studies for officials from MOT's various departments, agencies and institutes.
A draft program is available on the Project File, while a summary is presented
below:
(a)  Study tours of two to three weeks'  duration   for senior highway
officials and managers to introduce them to current practices and recent
developments in road engineering, management and operations in other
parts of the world;
(b) Short overseas courses for technical specialists in road engineering,
management and operations;
(c) Graduate and post-graduate university courses and studies for
appropriately qualified senior engineers, planners and economists who
would subsequently be involved in the transfer and development of modern
techniques and standards from overseas to Viet Nam;
(d) In-country courses and seminars conducted by expatriate specialists for
engineers, economists and accountants;
(e) In-country train-the-trainers seminars to introduce training aids and
tools and to develop new training courses; and
(f) In-country training courses conducted by local and expatriate trainers
at existing training schools to raise the skills of road maintenanc_
personnel and equipment operators.



- 21 -
At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that training under the
project will be carried out in accordance with a training program satisfactory
to IDA.
D. Environmental Impact
3.18          No significant environmental issues have been identified with
regard to the project. As most road rehabilitation works will be carried out on
existing alignments, only very minor realignments would be required. However,
numerous sections need to be widened (some up to four meters) to accommodate
bicycles and other slow-moving vehicles and some sections need to be raised to
prevent flooding which would also result in the widening of embankments. On a
few oections, roadside trees which encroach on shoulders need to be removed where
deemed  to be  safety hazards.    Slope  failure and erosion could occur at
construction sites and camps (including quarries and borrow areas), along with
noise and dust during construction, and these could have adverse effects on the
environment.   However,  the impact  from these elements would be offset by
mitigating measures taken during the design and construction phases (Annex 1).
3.19          For the most part, the project benefits the environment. Widening
the pavements and shoulders and improving their surfaces (shoulders will be
paved) will reduce air and noise pollution and thereby improve the quality of
life of those living close to the roads.   These measures will also improve
vehicular and pedestrian safety, while improved side and cross drainage will
reduce potential flood damage. No induced (unplanned) development is expected
as a result of the project, as the roads involved currently exist, are heavily
used and their access areas are developed and populated.
E. Land Acquisition and Resettlement
3.20          Nearly all rehabilitation works will be within the existing right-
of-way (ROW) established many years ago.  Land acquisition will therefore be
minimal and is estimated at 10 ha (24.7 ac) in total along the 430 km of project
roads. However, encroachment on several sections of road will need to be removed
to improve safety. It consists mostly of vendors of produce and other goods, and
providers of various services, that have built shacks on the roadside. Also,
farmers use the roadside for their homes and plant crops right up to the toe of
the embankment slope to maximize land utilization for agricultural output.
Moreover, they often use the shoulders, and even the pavement, for drying their
harvest. A Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan (RRAP), prepared by the
MOT for these settlers along the sections of Highway 1A from Hanoi to Vinh and
Ho Chi Minh City to Can Tho (similar Plans would be prepared for additional
sections, if any), has been reviewed by Bank staff and found satisfactory. The
approximately  10,700  households  (about  48,400  persons)  affected  will  be
compensated of which about 7,300 will need to be resettled. The process will be
administered by the local governments (Peoples Committees) at the city/county,
township and village levels.   The aim is to keep the resettled residents in
productive employment either through reallocation of land or the provision of
employment in nearby enterprises. The implementation of the Plan is scheduled
to be completed by O-tober 1994. A copy of the RRAP is available in the Project



- 22 -
File, while a summary of the Plan is presented in Annex 2.  Assurances were
obtained from GOV at negotiations that resettlement and rehabilitation of project
affected people would be completed in accordance with the RRAP and in a manner
satisfactory to IDA.
3.21          The implementation of the RRAP would be monitored through routine
project supervision and quarterly progress reports  (para. 3.39).   Also, the
effectiveness and the socioeconomic impact of resettlement would be evaluated for
a certain period of time after it is completed.  Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would prepare and furnish to IDA by March 31,
1994, a plan for monitoring the effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of
resettlement under the project and, thereafter, implement such plan as agreed
with IDA.
F. Proiect Costs
3.22          The project  is estimated to cost US$176.0 million,  including
contingencies,  land acquisition and resettlement.    The  first  table below
summarizes the cost of the various project components (see Table 3.2 for details)
and the second summarizes the same cost by type of expenditure (see Table 3.3 for
details).  All costs are estimated net of taxes and duties due to lack of
information  (a new tax law will be implemented shortly) .   Cost estimates
represent base costs as of mid-1993. The direct and indirect foreign exchange
component (excluding taxes) for civil works is estimated at about 85% on the
assumption that foreign contractors will carry out all civil works.   For
consultancy services, it is estimated at 80t for supervisiDn and 90* for other
services.
3.23          The cost of civil works is based on quantities derived from the
engineering designs. As no international or domestic competitive bidding has
taken place in Viet Nam since the early 1970s, unit costs have been derived by
comparing the contracts planned for civil works and consultancies with those of
similar completed and ongoing operations in other Asian countries (e.g.,
Indonesia, Thailand and Laos) . In addition, because quantities of minor elements
are not accurately estimated (para. 3.7), quantity contingencies for civil works
have been assessed at 15% of base cost, but 10% for other components.  Since most
of the project cost would be in foreign exchange, all cost estimates have been
prepared in US dollars. Local rates of inflation are difficult to estimate, but
since the rate of exchange is adjusted frequently, price contingencies for both
local and foreign costs have been calculated on the basis of expected
international inflation assuming an average annual rate of 2.8% during 1993-98.
Total price contingencies are equal to about 8% of base costs.



- 23 -
Summary of Proiect Cost by Component
(US$ million)
Component                                    Local   Foreign    Total   % Foreign
Road rehabilitation                         13.48      75.01     88.49       85
Ferry operations                             0.95       7.55      8.50       89
Equipment                                    0.51       9.74     10.25       95
Technical assistance
Implementation support and project
preparation                              0.18      1.62       1.80       90
Institutional development                  0.56      5.04       5.60       90
Training                                     0.60       1.40      2.00       70
Total Base Cost               16.28    100.36    116.64        86
Physical contingencies                       2.19      13.46     15.65       86
Price contingencies                          1.53       9.38     10.91       86
Resettlement and rehabilitation             20.23       8.67     28.90       30
Land acquisition                             3.90          -       3.90       0
Total Proiect Cost             44.13    131.87    176.00        75
Summary of Proiect Cost by Tyve of Expenditure
(In million of US$)
Type of Expenditure                           Local  Foreign   Total   % Foreign
Civil works                                  11.95    67.74    79.69        85
Ferries (new construction and rehab.)         0.56     5.04      5.60       90
Equipment and goods                           0.52      9.81    10.33       95
Consultant services
Supervision, feasibility and
engineering studies                      1.87     9.33    11.20        84
Advisors                                   0.18     1.62      1.80       90
Institutional strengthening                0.60     5.42      6.02       90
Training                                      0.60      1.40     2.00       70
Total Base Cost                  16.28   100.36   116.64        86
Physical contingencies                        2.19    13.46    15.65        86
Price contingencies                           1.53      9.38    10.91       86
Resettlement and Rehabilitation              20.23      8.67    28.90       30
Land acquisition                              3.90         -     3.90        0
Total Proiect Cost             44.13   131.87   176.00        75



- 24 -
G. Financing
3.24      The proposed IDA credit of US$158.5 million will cover about 90% of
the total project costs net of taxes and duties, including all foreign costs and
about 60% of local costs. Financing arrangements are shown in the table below.
Financing Source                      Local        Foreign          Total
(US$ million)
Government of Viet Nam                  17.50          -             17.50
IDA                                     26.63        131.87         158.00
Total                              44.13        131.87         176.00
Retroactive financing of US$5.0 million is recommended for eligible expenditures
incurred after January 1, 1993, for urgently needed consultant services and
office equipment for PMU1 and for resettlement-related consultant services.
H. Project Implementation
3.25      MOT will be responsible for overall project execution through its
Highway No. 1 Project Management Unit (PMU1) . The PMU1 (see para. 3.12) has been
created to administer foreign-financed projects and its responsibilities include
such major aspects as procuring all project components, keeping overall project
accounts, processing disbursement requests, reporting progress and liaising with
IDA; also, it is responsible for general oversight and supervision of contract
management, technical assistance, studies and training to be implemented by other
units. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOV that the PMUl will be
maintained in a manner satisfactory to IDA with appropriate functions and funding
staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers.   A description of the PMU1
establishment and its responsibilities during the project period is in Annex 3.
3.26       In implementing the project, PMUl would consult and cooperate with
the RRMUs 2, 4 and 7, each in their designated geographical areas, for the three
contracts for road rehabilitation works and associated supervision, for the
technical assistance for road management, maintenance and traffic safety and for
the maintenance equipment component. RRMU 7 would be involved in implementing
the ferry improvement component.   TEDI would be involved in the design and
engineering studies and the road traffic safety study.   MOT's Department of
Training would be involved in implementing the training program. Implementation
of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan for project affected people
would be administered by the Peoples Committees of the provinces and districts
where the project road sections are located.
3.27      Project implementation is expected to take about five years and the
scheduled completion date is June 30, 1999, with the credit closing date
stipulated for December 31, 1999. A draft schedule is shown in Annex 4.



- 25 -
I.  Procuremn
3.28      Project procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below
(costs in US$ million, net of taxes and duties).
Procurement Method
Project Element                       ICB      Other"       NIFD     Total
Civil works
Road rehabilitation (including         96.95      -            -        96.95
blackspot improvements)             (84.99)     -            -       (84.99)
Access roads for ferry crossings        2.50      -            -        2.50
(2.25)     -            -       (2.25)
New ferries, ferry rehab. & spares         6.64       -           -         6.64
(6.34)     -            -       (6.34)
Equipment                                 10.11      2.00         -        12.11
(9.62)    (1.90)        -      (11.52)
Consultant Services
Implementation support and                       15.44         -       15.44
project preparation                  -       (15.44)                (15.44)
Institutional development                         7.20         -        7.20
-        (7.20)        -       (7.20)
Training                                             2.36         -         2.36
-        (2.36)        -       (2.36)
Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Civil works                            -        26.71         -       26.71
-       (26.71)        -      (26.71)
Consultant services                    -         0.95         -        0.95
-        (0.95)        -       (0.95)
Training                               -         0.74         -        0.74
-        (0.74)        -       (0.74)
Subsistence                            -         -           0.50      0.50
(-)       (-)
Land acquisition                           -          -          3.90       3.90
(-)       (-)
Total                          116.20      55.40      4.40      176.00
(103.20)   (55.30)       (-)    (158.50)
Note: Figures include contingencies and those in parentheses are the respective
amounts to be financed by IDA.
a.    International and local shopping, consultant services and training and
force account.
b.    NIF = Not financed by IDA.
3.29      All civil works for road rehabilitation (US$96.95 million) and ferry
crossings (US$2.50 million) will be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding  (ICB)  in accordance with IDA guidelines.   Procurement
documents for the rehabilitation works, including those for prequalification of
contractors, have been completed and will be revised to conform to the IDA's new
policy of mandatory use of the IDA's standard bidding documents. Works would be
divLded into three packages: one for the highway section from Hanoi to the Than
Hong provincial border (102 km), a second for the section from that border to
Vinh (177 km), and a third from Ho Chi Minh City to Can Tho (151 km)).



- 26 --
Prequalified contractors would be allowed to bid on any one or a combination of
two or three contracts but would be eligible for awards only up to the amount of
works for which they are prequalified. Civil works for improving access to ferry
crossings would be bid when design has been completed. Prequalified domestic
contractors competing under ICB would be eligible for a margin of preference of
7.5% in bid evaluation.  Works for resettlement and rehabilitation (about 296,000
sq m of housing and the associated preparation of new housing plots, access
roads, utilities and civic facilities) (US$26.71 million) scattered along the 430
km of project road sections will be carried out by force account by the local
governments (Peoples Committees) in the ten provinces and 33 districts where
these road sections are located using their own constructions units.
3.30      Ferries  (US$6.64  million)  and major  road maintenance  equipment
(US$10.11 million)  will be procured on the basis of ICB.   However,  minor
equipment items or groups of items estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate of US$2.0 million, would be procured on the basis
of international and local shopping by obtaining at least three price quotations
from qualified foreign and local suppliers eligible under IDA guidelines.
Domestic manufacturers competing under ICB would be eligible for a margin of
preference of 15% for goods, or the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower.
Procurement documents and technical specifications will be prepared using the
IDA's standard bidding documents.
3.31      International   consultants   would  be  needed   for  construction
supervision, technical assistance, studies and training (US$22.64 million), but
local expertise available in universities and sector institutes would be used to
the extent possible. All consultants would be employed in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Outline terms of reference for all consulting services are available
on the Project File.
3.32      A draft Country Procurement Assessment Report has been prepared for
Viet Nam and indicates that no agency of the GOV has in recent years undertaken
international or local procurement under procedures that would be considered
acceptable to IDA and that the basic laws and regulations required for
establishing acceptable procurement procedures are lacking. IDA is, however,
preparing to assist the GOV to establish the appropriate legal basis and draft
the associated regulations and guidelines, but this work will not be completed
in time for application under the project. Thus, all procurement would follow
ICB guidelines in every respect and no local competitive bidding will be allowed.
Furthermore, since no appropriate procurement expertise or experience is
available in Viet Nam, there is a risk of procurement delays that would, in turn,
cause overall project implementation delays. In order to reduce this risk and
facilitate progress, the project would provide technical assistance to assist the
PMUl in procuring all project components (para. 3.12 and 3.25).
3.33      Because  of  the  lack of procurement  experience  in MOT  and  its
implementing agencies, all project-financed contracts for works, goods and
services would be subject to prior review by IDA.



- 27 -
J. Disbursements
3.34      Disbursements of the credit will be made as follows :2
(a)  Civil  Works:      (i)  87%  of  total  expenditures  for  road
rehabilitation, access roads to ferry crossings and traffic
safety  improvements;  and  (ii)  100%  of  resettlement-related
infrastructure;
(b)  EauiDment (including ferries):   100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) of locally
manufactured items and  80% of local expenditures for  other
items procured locally;
(c) Consultant Services: 100% of total expenditures;
(d) Traininq: 100% of total expenditures.
3.35      Except for resettlement-related works, full documentation would be
required  for  disbursements  against  all  expenditures  on  civil  works,  and
consulting services as well as for expenditures on equipment and training under
contracts  costing  more  than  US$200,000.       For  all  other  expenditures,
disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOE) prepared by
the PMUl. Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained by the PMUl and
made available for review by IDA supervision missions.
3.36      In order to facilitate timely payments of project expenditures, a
Special Account will be established in a bank acceptable to IDA and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The account will be established in US currency
with  an authorized allocation of US$5.0  million.    The account  would be
replenished monthly or when it is drawn down by 30W of the initial deposit,
whichever comes first. Application size for payments directly from the Credit
Account for for issuance of special commitments is US$1.0 million. A schedule
of estimated disbursements is given in Table 3.4. As there is no disbursement
profile available for highway projects in Viet Nam, the profile presented
reflects IDA's/Bank's experience with disbursements under transport projects in
the East Asia and Pacific Region. Disbursements are expected to be completed in
about five and a half years. The closing date of the credit will be December 31,
1999.
K. Accounts and Audits
3.37      At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the GOV that (a) the
implementing agencies would keep separate project accounts for their respective
project components, while consolidated project accounts would be maintained by
2    Disbursement percentages are calculated net of taxes and duties because
the nature, extent and amount of taxes to be levied in accordance with
the new tax law have yet to be decided and clarified. GOV will advise
IDA when decisions/clarifications are available and the percentages will
be decreased accordingly.



- 28 -
PMU; (b) the project accounts, including documentation for SOEs, would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, with the audit including a
separate opinion on the SOEs used as a basis for disbursements; and (c) the
detailed audit reports would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the end
of each government fiscal year.
L. Proiect Supervision. Reporting and Monitorina
3.38      The project would be supervised by IDA missions at an interval
according to the progress, or the lack thereof, of project components. In view
of the country's lack of experience in project implementation, at least two
missions would be anticipated per year on average with more frequency during
start-up and less towards the end of the project. As detailed in the Supervision
Plan, Annex 5, it is estimated that during the project period, about 77 staff-
weeks would be required. This input is much higher than the average for this
type of project due to the inexperience of the Borrower and implementing
agencies.
3.39      In addition to field supervision, MOT would provide the IDA with
quarterly reports on the physical and financial progress of the proposed project
in a format (including monitoring parameters) acceptable to IDA. These reports
would be prepared by the PMU, based on detailed records maintained by the
implementing agencies, and would be submitted to IDA by the end of the second
month of the subsequent quarter.  Also, a Project Completion Report would be
prepared and submitted to IDA no later than nine months after the closing date
of the credit.



- 29 -
IV. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Road Investment Strateqv
4.1           The overall road network needs in Viet Nam are substantial, yet
available resources are limited. In the short term, therefore, the focus is on
rehabilitating key infrastructure to facilitate the movement of passengers and
goods on the main network; this would include selective modernization of
equipment and improvements in road maintenance (para.1.18) and at ferry
crossings. Of the 10,000 km of national road, almost 40% is in "poor or very
poor" condition; another 47% is classified as "fair" but it could soon
deteriorate. Route 1A is the main artery and economic route in Viet Nam which
links the two largest cities, Hanoi (population of one million) in the north and
HCMC (population of three million) in the south. It is also the main transport
route for agriculture originating in the Red River Delta (north) and the Mekong
Delta (south) . Only about 18% of this route is considered in "good" condition,
with over 60% "fair" and the remainder either "poor" or "very poor." Even those
sections classified as "good" or 'fair", have problems affecting traffic flow.
These include early pavement deterioration which leads to frequent roadwork; few
paved shoulders to separate slower and faster moving traffic; and encroachment
by both vendors and farmers who use the road for purposes other than transport.
To ensure that this main route does not deteriorate further and that it is
brought to an acceptable standard to accommodate present and future traffic in
the short-term, the sections from Hanoi to Vinh (279 km) in the north and HCMC
to Can Tho (151 km) in the south were selected for inclusion in the project. It
is expected that as a result of this project and a similar one under preparation
by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), about 50% of Route IA will be upgraded to
"good" condition  (presently it is 26%  but deteriorating) . This will become
critical  as  economic  development  accelerates.   In  addition,   the  road
rehabilitation  component  is  also  expected  to  develop  local  maintenance
capabilities and strengthen MOT's maintenance planning and management abilities,
improving the road's longevity and lowering the overall cost cf maintenance - not
only of the project roads but all other Route IA sections that are maintained by
RRMUs 2, 4 and 7. Since new maintenance techniques are to be introduced also to
all of their sub-RRMUs and the equipment is purchased for use by them regardless
of route section, the impact is expected to extend beyond the project. The
rehabilitation works themselves will center on upgrading pavements, removing
encroaching activities from roadside, and separating slower and faster moving
traffic to enable the average vehicular speed to increase from 33 km/hr to 60
km/hr.
4.2           To attain the maximum benefit from the proposed road investment it
was also necessary to ensure that where ferry crossings are required, disruption
of traffic flow was kept to a minimum. The crossings at My Thuan and Can Tho were
therefore examined and a component included in the project (paras.3.4 and 3.9).
4.3           About 21 million people live in the project's area of influence,
with 10 major urban settlements (of over 100,000 inhabitants) dependent on it.
In addition to industrial, agricultural and commercial activities on and adjacent
to the road, the government has recently approved the development of over 100
small businesses and industries along the route (both in the north and south),



- 30 -
which will add to the future volume of passenger and freight traffic in the area.
The proposed road rehabilitation and maintenance project will support the
development of these and existing activities by lowering the cost of goods
distribution and movement of people, as well as ensuring a reliable year-round,
all-weather road. The project would therefore assist the government not only to
develop its transport infrastructure, but also to meet some of its regional
development and export promotion objectives.
B. Traffic
HiQhwavs
4.4           Existiag.   In 1990, the Transport Engineering Design Institute
(TEDI) carried out a traffic survey for both the northern and southern road
sections (see Table 4.1) and updated it in 1993. In the north, the average daily
traffic (ADT), excluding two-wheeled and non-motorized vehicles, varied on the
different road sections from about 3,000 on the outskirts of Hanoi to 1:40 about
100 km north of Vinh. Bicycle traffic accounted for the bulk of all two-wheeled
traffic, with as many as 22,000 recorded at the entrances to Hanoi.   In the
out, the ADT of motorized vehicles in HCMC was about 5100 on the outskirts,
decreasing to about 1850 between the ferry crossings. Motorcycles accounted for
about two-thirds of all two-wheeled traffic 'approximately 22,000) at the
entrances to HCMC.
4.5           Future.  No reliable historical traffic data could be found for
either the northern or southern sections of road proposed for rehabilitation.
Shifts in the movement of goods have occurred as the Government abandoned its
freight allocation policy. As a result, it is difficult to forecast with any
accuracy  a  scenario  for  traffic movement  or traffic  growth.    Government
economists anticipate overall traffic to grow at a rate of at least 10% per annum
to the year 2000 reflecting projected economic growth under a moderate to high
growth scenario (4%-8t). Given these forecasts and the considerable potential
for new traffic, and, with reduced transport costs and increased seasonal
reliability of the road network, substantially increased traffic volumes are a
certainty.   Given experiences in other Asian countries at a similar level of
development (China, Indonesia and Laos), a 15% annual increase in vehicular
traffic to the year 2006 has been assumed as reasonable, although for the south
this estimate is considered conservative.
Ferry Crossinqs
4.6           Route IA is the main highway artery in southern Viet Nam linking
HCMC to the Mekong Delta, as well as to one of the largest cities in that area,
Can Tho  (population of over 300,000).   Along that road there are two ferry
crossings. The first is at My Thuan and the second is at Can Tho. These ferry
crossings are operated by two separate enterprises which fall under RRMU 7.
Although they report to Union 7, since 1989 they have been virtually self-
sufficient financially. However as part of Union 7 they contribute a significant
portion of their annual earnings to the Union (see Table 4.2), and studies
indicate that as a result maintenance of the existing fleet has suffered. Since
route IA will be upgraded in the Bank project to attain full benefits
attributable to the highway component, the aged fleet at the ferry crossing
(dating from the 1960s and early 1970s - see Table 4.3) will either be



- 31 -
rehabilitated or replaced, access routes and terminals upgraded, and technical
assistance provided to improve both management and maintenance functions.
4.7           Existing Traffic.  Both ferry enterprises have maintained traffic
records since 1980, allowing for easy tracking of traffic growth. For the 1985-
1992 period, motorized four-wheeled vehicles crossing at My Thuan have increased
at an annual rate of 15% (this occurred despite a surcharge placed on crossings
in October 1990 for potential bridge construction after the year 2000), while at
Can Tho they have increased by 20%. Bicycle and motorcycle traffic has increased
by almost 50% annually at My Thuan and 50% at Can Tho, while foot traffic
increased by 10* at both crossings (see Table 4.4).
4.8           Future  Traffic.    Given past  traffic  growth  at  each  of  the
crossings, and given the assumption that motorized traffic on the proposed
project road which leads to these crossings is forecast to grow at an average
rate of 15% annually, motorized traffic at My Thuan is projected to increase at
15% per annim, and 20% at Can Tho. Bicycle and motorcycle traffic is forecast
to grow at a&. annual rate of 20% at the former crossing and 10% at the latter.
C. Economic Evaluation Results by Component
Vehicle Operating Costs
4.9           The NTSR reviewed VOCs in Viet Nam as part of its study.  Although
the NTSR truck cost data appears to be unusually high in the south, this is
because of the almost exclusive use of heavy vehicles of a particular
manufacturer in that region. In the north, Russian-made heavy trucks predominate
with values one half of those ascribed to those most used in the south.
Notwithstanding this anomaly, the results, when compared to findings in
Indonesia, Pakistan, and Laos, are similar. For this reason, NTSR data has been
used in this project's economic analysis both for the highway and ferry
components. Comparable VOC data are presented below with a more detailed
breakdown shown in Tables 4.5 and 4.6.
Vehicle Operating Cost
(US cents/vehicle-km)
Country            Car       Utility        Bus         Trucks a        Source
Indonesia         15.53        11.94         18.57           24.14      Hoff/Over.
Pakistan          10.77        17.32         25.59           28.27      Hoff/Over.
Laos              10.81         n.a.         29.99           27.86      Cons. Eng.
N. Viet Nam        7.05        12.74         27.36           32.50      NTSR
S. Viet Nam        7.05        12.74         27.36           51.18      NTSR
a.  Composite  estimate  including  light/medium/heavy  trucks  proportioned
according to data available.



- 32 -
Economic Analysis
4.10        VOC savings were the main benefits quantified for the highway
component, which accounts for almost 80% of project costs. Waiting time savings
have been used in the analysis of ferry component, which accounts for about 8%
of project costs.
A1.11       Hiahwav Component.  Total economic costs of construction excluding
land acquisition and resettlement were estimated to be US$77.1 million. These
were estimated on the basis of the mid-1993 financial costs adjusted to mid-1994
prices (to reflect the probable date of tendering) with taxes and price
contingencies appropriately deducted. Construction cost rates vary somewhat
betwee:i the north and the south with costs per km in the north estimated at
US$178,600 and in the south at US$198,000, which are higher due to higher ADT and
pavement strength. Land acquisition and resettlement costs associated with the
project (see paras. 3.18-3.21), amounting to US$32.8 million (US$11.9 million in
the north and US$20.9 million in the south), were also included in the analysis.
4.12         Benefits attributable to this component have been identified as those
derived from reduced vehicle operating costs. The savings have been estimated
by computing operating costs with and without the project, taking into account
project-induced changes in both surface conditions and vehicle speeds. Full VOC
savings have been applied to the projected traffic growth; no generated or
diverted traffic has been included. An economic evaluation was conducted for
each road segment under construction. The EIRR varied from about 20% to over 100%
with a weighted composite EIRR of 89% for the overall highway component and a
first year rate of return (FYRR) of over 100% (see Tables 4.7 and 4.8).
4.13         Ferrv Improvements.   The main benefits identified for the ferry
investment include waiting time savings which are due to the development of a
more modern and efficient ferry fleet with higher vessel availability (75% as
opposed to the present 50%). Waiting time savings have been determined assuming
a one hour wait during peak operating times, with savings ascribed to all cars
and trucks (because growth in these categories is key to fleet requirements) . The
waiting time cost/hr for passengers is based on a daily salary of $1.00 where it
is assumed that the average cost of waiting is 50t of the salary. The waiting
time savings for vehicles was calculated as the economic cost per hour in
operation of the vehicle for cars (US$1.98) and for trucks (US$5.73). Although
the expected life of a new and rehabilitated ferry will be about 25 years, the
EIRR was estimated on a 10-year basis because of possible bridge construction,
which could begin shortly after the year 2000, and is 38% for My Thuan and 42%
at Can Tho, with a weighted composite EIRR of 40t and an FYRR of 39%. (see Table
4.9)
4.14         Economic Internal Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis.   The
project EIRR is estimated at 85%.   A series of sensitivity analyses were
conducted for the road sections both in the north and the south. These included
construction cost increases, VOC benefit decreases, simultaneous cost increases
and benefit decreases, and variations in traffic growth. Costs would have to
increase well over 100% for the EIRR of the highway component to decrease to 15%.
Another similar series of sensitivity analyses were conducted on the ferry
improvements. In this case, the break-even analysis shows that project costs
would also have to increase in excess of 100% before a marginal return is reached



- 33 -
with a break-even reduction in waiting time of about 2-4 minutes. A summary of
the main findings is presented below.
EIRR Sensitivities Analyses
Base      10% Cost   10% Benefit   5% Traffic
EIRR      Increase   Decrease        Growth
Highwav
North                  77            72           72            57
South                >100            94           94           81
Ferries
My Thuan               38            35           35            16
Can Tho                42            39           39            11
D. Risks
4.15        The main risks are primarily related to the newness of IDA's
relationship with Viet Nam. Lack of experience in using IDA procedures such as
those  for  procurement,   disbursements  and  audits  could  delay  project
implementation.   As a first step to minimize these risks, IDA will conduct
workshops and special training in these fields in Viet Nam. Also, MOT created
and staffed a PMU not only to handle the usual tasks such as accounting and
reporting but also to serve as a focal point for processing and monitoring
project implementation.   In addition, since no international contracting has
taken place in Viet Nam in many years, there is a lack of market data on which
to base cost estimates. Detailed analysis of project requirements together with
contract experience from neighboring countries and international prices have been
applied to determine project cost estimates along with sufficient contingency
allowances. Lastly, umcertainty about future availability of counterpart funds
is reduced by focussing on the highest priority transport investment program
based on a detailed review of the overall public investment program by IDA and
the Government.



- 34 -
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDfATION
5.1       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that:
(a)  By October 31 of each year, commencing in 1994, it will consult
annually with IDA on its development strategy for the transport
sector, including planned investments and related policies (para
1.21);
(b)  Additional sections of Highway 1A. if any, to be rehabilitated
under the project would be selected on the basis of economic,
engineering, environmental and social criteria acceptable to IDA
(para. 3.5);
(c)  Technical  assistance  and  studies  will  be  carried  out  in
accordance with terms of reference and timing satisfactory to
IDA, (para. 3.16);
(d)  Training under the project will be carried out in accordance with
a training program satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.17);
(e)  Resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected people would
be carried out in accordance with the RRAP and in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.20);
(f)  Following further consultation with IDA, plans to monitor the
effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of the resettlement would
be prepared by March 31, 1994, and these would subsequently be
carried out in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.21); and
(g)  The functions, staffing and funding of the PMU will be maintained
in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.25).
5.2       Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for
an IDA credit of SDR 112.2 million (US$158.5 million equivalert) to the Socialist
Republic of Viet Nam. The credit would be for a term of 40 years, including a
grace period of ten years.



35 -                          Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Environmental Considerations
1.        The main component of the Project, and the only one that might have
an environmental impact, is the rehabilitation of 430 km of existing roads.
2.        Except for resettlement (see Annex 2), no major environmental issues
have been identified with regard to the project.   Minor realignment and the
widening of shoulders are expected to cause minimal environmental impact. There
is also a possibility of slope failure and erosion as well as noise and dust
during the construction stage. Construction sites and camps will pose potential
adverse effects (for instance, spillage of bitumen and disposal of human wastes)
and so will quarries and borrow areas; also, increased vehicle speeds on improved
roads may have implications  for pedestrian safety.   However,  the pavement
rehabilitation and the paving of shoulders will improve traffic safety and reduce
dust and noise.  Drainage, will be improved and therefore the risk of flooding
will be reduced.   Increased traffic capacity will reduce air pollution from
vehicle emissions on sections which have experienced significant reduction in
traffic speeds during peak hours.
3.        The environmental impact of realignment and widening, the probability
of slope failures and erosion and the potential effects of construction sites and
camps will be offset by mitigating design and construction measures included in
con.tract documents for works and by improved practices for force account works.
4.        The following measures will be taken in the design and construction
of project roads and a draft proposal for inclusion in General Conditions of
Contract is shown in an attachment.
Design Phase
Alignment               (i)    Realignment will be kept to a minimum to minimize
land acquisition and impact on residential areas;
Slope stability       (ii)    Slopes of cuts and fills will  be designed to
minimize the potential for failure;
Slope erosion         (iii)    Erosion of slopes will be minimized by controlling
steepness   and  by   sodding  or  planting   of
vegetation;
Flooding               (iv)    Bridges,  culverts and roadside drainage systems
will be designed to eliminate/minimize risk; and
Pedestrian safety      (v)    A monitoring plan will be developed to detect any
traffic or pedestrian safety problems.
Construction Phase
The following measures shall be observed in a reasonable manner and to the
satisfaction of the Engineer.
Natural surroundings (vi)    Construction   operations,   including   those  of
depots, camp sites, storage areas, borrow pits and
the like, shall be conducted such that the
landscape is preserved to the extent possible.



- 36 -                           Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
Unavoidable damage shall be promptly rectified and
&bandoned quarries and borrow pits returned to an
appropriate land use;
Air pollution        (vii)    Dust from producing,  handling,  transporting and
storing of materials shall be minimized by
sprinkling or by cover; dust from operating
vehicles or equipment shall be minimized by
sprinkling or other methods;
(viii)    Burning of waste material, brush or trees shall
only be allowed in appropriate locations and in
favorable weather conditions;
(ix)    Asphalt plants shall be located and operated in a
manner that meets appropriate air and water
quality standards;
Water pollution        (x)    Construction operations shall be conducted so as
to minimize the risk of spillage of pollutants
such as untreated sewage and sanitary waste,
bitumen and other petroleum products, chemicals,
biocides, mineral salts and wastewater and thermal
pollutants into streams and/or underground water
resources. Ring drains leading to emergency soak
pits shall be constructed around major fuel stores
and fueling depots and accidental spillage/damage
shall be promptly rectified;
(xi)    Temporary drainage  for cut and fill and other
construction activities shall be provided and
adequately maintained;
Noise pollution      (xii)    Construction activities generating excessive noise
shall be confined to day-light hours (e.g.,
between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.);
(xiii)    Noise   from   blasting,   hauling   and   other
construction operations shall be minimized as much
as possible and confined to areas away from
schools, hospitals and other noise- and vibration-
sensitive areas;
Quarry operations
and borrow pits      (xiv)    Location of new quarries and borrow pits shall be
carefully selected outside populated areas, and be
operated in a manner that will allow air and water
quality standards to be met; adequate traffic
control measures shall be taken for transport of
materials along public roads;
(xv)    Safety zones shall be defined and safeguarded;
(xvi)    Storage of explosives shall comply with safety
regulations; and
Solid and human
waste               (xvii)    Shall be appropriately treated and disposed of to
the satisfaction of the local Environmental
Committee and the Engineer.



- 37-                         Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
ProDosed Addition to the Chapter on Safety, Security and the Protection of the
Environment in the Fourth Edition of FIDIC's General Conditions of Contract
Add the following to Sub-Clause (c) of Clause 19.1 of Part I of the General
Conditions:
19.1 (c) The Contractor shall, in particular, ensure that following measures
are observed in a reasonable manner and to the satisfaction of the
Engineer throughout the execution and completion of the Works:
(i) the landscape is preserved to the extent possible by conducting
operations in a manner which will prevent unnecessary destruction
or scarring of the natural surroundings. Except where required
for Permanent Works, quarries, borrow pits, staging and
processing areas, dumps and camps, all trees, saplings and
shrubbery shall be protected from unnecessary damage.   After
unavoidable damage, reseeding, replanting, or restoration will be
required promptly to prevent further damage (i.e. erosion) and to
restore quasi-original conditions where appropriate;
(ii) the Contractor's facilities, such as warehouses, labor camps and
storage areas, shall be planned in advance based on how the areas
will be used and will be completely dismantled and removed upon
completion of construction. These facilities shall be located to
preserve the natural environment to the maximum extent possible.
Following removal of such facilities, the areas shall be restored
as close as possible to their original condition and returned to
an appropriate land use;
(iii)  following completion of their use, borrow pits and other material
resource areas shall be landscaped and planted according to
ecological design standards satisfactory to the Engineer (refer
to Technical Specifications as appropriate) to provide substitute
areas for displaced natural habitats or other appropriate land
use;
(iv) the Contractor's operations shall be performed in a manner
sufficient to prevent accidental spillage of contaminants, debris
or other pollutants, especially into streams and or underground
water resources.  Such pollutants include untreated sewage and
sanitary waste, tailings, bitumen and other petroleum products,
chemicals, biocides, mineral salts and thermal pollution.
Wastewater, including those of aggregate processing and concrete
bathing, shall be treated by using settling ponds, gravel filters
or other processes so as not to impair water quality or harm
aquatic life. In case such accidental spillage or other damage
occurs,  the Contractor shall,  at his own cost,  rectify such
damage;
(v) air pollution emissions shall be minimized by using sprinkling or
other methods during production, handling, transportation and
storing of aggregates, cement and similar dust producing
substances. Dust from vehicles or equipment moving or operating
on the construction site, including camps, depots, borrow areas
and other construction related areas, shall be minimized by
regular sprinkling of water or other acceptable methods. Waste
materials, brush or trees shall be burned only when the Engineer
permits  under  favorable weather  conditions.    Asphalt  plant
emissions shall meet appropriate environmental standards;
(vi)  The Contractor will organize activities to minimize traffic
delays and to protect pedestrians along his work areas.
Temporary pedestrian access across roads under construction must
be  provided  for  local  residents.    This  will  require  the



- 38 -                           Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
Contractor to liaise and cooperate with the local police and the
Ministry of Transport in traffic control;
(vii) Construction activities in areas of human habitation and
congregation shall be limited to daylight hours (between 6:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.).  Noise from blasting, hauling and other
such operations shall be minimized through the use of low noise
machines where appropriate;
(viii) Quarries and borrow areas shall be carefully selected to minimize
impacts on natural surroundings, agricultural and other areas of
sensitive land use. Route and timing of material transport shall
be carefully selected to minimize impacts on schools, hospitals,
and other environmentally sensitive facilities.



-39-                              Annex 2
Page 1 of 10
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan
Location and Impact
1.        The Government of Viet Nam (GOV) has identified rehabilitation and
maintenance of the existing highways as one of the countries most urgent needs.
The project would help rehabilitate sections of Highway IA, the spine road of the
country and the major north-south access. One of the project road sections is
located in the north and runs from Hanoi south to Vinh, about 280 km, the other
is located in the south of the country and runs from Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC)to
Can Tho, about 150 km. Traffic volumes on these sections vary from about 900 to
5000 four-wheeled motorized vehicles per day and the number of bicycles is up to
15,000 per day in the areas closest to Hanoi and HCMC.    The road sections
traverse mostly low lying, flat agricultural land. The road rehabilitation will
be carried out on the existing alignment except for very minor realignment will
be carried out to remove safety hazards; environmental impact is thus minimized.
There is, however, serious encroachment on the road embankments, shoulders and
even the pavement as well as adjacent to the embankments, and significant
resettlement of project affected people is required because the road needs to be
marginally widened in some places and most of the encroachment creates serious
safety hazards. Therefore, the road embankment and up to a 7 m wide area on both
sides of the road need to be cleared of these encroaches and their structures of
various types and quality.   The Ministry of Transport  (MOT) carried out a
socioeconomic survey of the project affected people (PAPs) along the road
sections to be rehabilitated in March -August 1993 and prepared a Resettlement
and Rehabilitation Action Plan (RRAP).   Along the 430 km of road sections,
located in 10 provinces and 33 districts, the survey found that some 10,700
households (about 48,400 individuals) will be affected, while some 7,300 need to
be resettled. About 5,500 of the households use the affected structures (total
number of affected structures is 12,100) for business and 5,200 for residence
having employment elsewhere. Farmers will be only marginally affected as farming
can continue within the cleared areas.
Obiectives of the Plan
2.        The objectives of the RRAP are to ensure that all PAPs (any person who
at the date of completion of the socioeconomic survey has been residing, or
cultivating land, or carrying on trade, occupation, or work in the areas to be
cleared and who would be displaced from his/her usual habitat, trade, occupation
or work due to the carrying out of the project) will:
(a) promptly after their displacement, improve or at least regain the
standard of living they were enjoying prior to their displacement;
(b) be relocated as village units, village sections or families, as the
case may be, in accordance with their preference;



-40-                               Annex 2
Page 2 of 10
(c) be integrated into the community to which they are resettled, if that
be the case;
(d) be provided with appropriate compensation for the assets lost at
replacement cost, and adequate social and physical rehabilitation
infrastructure, including housing lots, community services and
facilities; and
(e) participate in the design and implementation of the Plan.
Policy Basis of Land Acauisition and Resettlement
3.        At present, all land belongs to the State and cannot be sold and there
are no rights to bequeath land. However, the law allows farmers to transfer the
right to use land including the right of inheritance. In rural areas, land has
been allocated to farmers by their communes or co-operatives based on the number
of workers in the family. A new land law has been passed and will take effect
in October 1993.  It states that land belongs to the people and will be managed
and allocated by the State and that organizations, households and individuals to
whom land has been allocated have the right to exchange, transfer, lease or use
land as surety. This new land law guarantees the protection of land users' legal
rights against encroachment of any kind and the right to be compensated for loss
of land whenever the land is resumed/taken back.
4.         In order to initiate action on land acquisition and resettlement for
infrastructure projects, the Prime Minister's Office has to approve the project
and then issue instructions to the provinces to initiate and administer the
actions required.
Principles of Resettlement
5.        The RRAP has been prepared so that all requirements of the Bank's
Operational Directive 4.30 are achieved, as briefly explained below:
(a) Resettlement is avoided or minimized: This is achieved by carrying
out the highway rehabilitation on the existing alignments. Change in
alignments or widening of road sections will occur only in very few
cases. Instead of keeping a Right of Way (ROW) of 20m on either side
of the road, MOT has agreed to the Bank's suggestion of keeping a 7m
clear area. Farmers can continue to cultivate land within the clear
area.
(b)  The  RRAP  provides  for  full  replacement  costs  of  all  affected
properties built after taking necessary permission. However, persons
who have built structures without permit shall be compensated at 60%
of the replacement cost (see para. 6(b) below).  In addition, all PAPs
will be eligible for house plots, subsistence allowances, shifting
assistance and training facilities. It also provides for assistance
in shifting
(providing trucks through contractors), and supporting the affected
owner during the transition period by providing subsistence allowances
for 2 persons of each relocating owner for a period of 3 months. This
is to be given in kind in form of rice.



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 10
Affected persons will be able to maintain and possible improve their
former living standards as replacement costs are provided for affected
structures.  A houseplot will be given to all relocated PAPs.  All
affected persons in the age group 17 to 21 years will be provided
training in a registered and reputable institution. Persons having
business establishments will be given priority in allotment of land
along the ROW so that their earlier business, customer-contract is not
adversely affected.   Necessary building permission and permanent
tenure of land will enable PAPs to plan and invest for future
expansion without fear of it being dismantled in the future.   The
monitoring and evaluation will pay special care to the needs of ethnic
minorities and the poorest groups.
(c) Community and PAP participation is actively encouraged and ensured by
having 2 PAP representatives in the District Resettlement Committee.
A special grievance procedure is being provided for all PAPs.
(d) All displaced PAPs will be provided alternative houseplots within M
km of their old sites, so as to ensure that their social and community
ties are not affected, and that there is no adverse effect on host
populations.
(e) Taking into account the objectives of the RRAP that all PAPs will be
able to improve or at least regain their standard of living enjoyed
prior to the project, MOT has issued a Circular clarifying that the
provisions for removal without compensation of these works constructed
by PAPs without permission set forth in Circular MOTAC No. 704/GTTE
dated June 16, 1990 will not apply for this Highway Rehabilitation
Project. Therefore, structures built without any permission are to
be compensated at 60% of the rate fixed for structures built with
permission and such PAPs will be eligible for rehabilitation measures
as set forth in (b) above.
Compensation Policies
6.        Based on the above, the following compensation principles apply under
the RRAP:
(a) Compensation shall be given for all affected structures which shall
include all additional works carried out by affected persons
e.g.,household electrification, compound walls, trees grown, etc. It
shall not be paid in cash (unless the Bank agrees) but buildings or
building materials like bricks, cement, tiles, etc., will be provided.
Salvage materials are to be used by affected families.
(b) If only a certain portion of the constructed work is located in the
clear area and the remaining portion is not viable as per opinion of
affected PAP and District Committee, then compensation shall be paid
for the remaining inviable portion also. In such cases, if the land
is not required by the affected PAP, then compensation for the whole
land shall be paid.
(c) Normally, vacant land in the clear area is not required to be
acquired. This is because it is not actually required for the project



-42 -                              Annex 2
Page 4 of 10
and  can  therefore  remain  with  the  affected  parson.    The  only
reasonable restriction is that no works should be constructed in this
area. Thus, the affected person can grow crops in the clear area as
explained in MOT Circular No. 704, dated 16 June 1990.
(d) A person possessing a house in the clear area and also some land which
is within ROW. The constructed work has to be dismantled as it is in
the clear area. Also, no permanent construction is permissible in the
remaining land as it is located in ROW.  Hence, it is necessary to
provide alternate houseplot in such cases, and also pay compensation
for the whole land as it cannot be used by the affected person for his
permanent house. In such cases, to ensure that his income (standard
of living) is at least regained if not improved after settlement, the
District Committee should permit such affected person to carry on his
business/trade, in a purely temporary construction, after taking
pledge from him that he will dismantle the temporary structure,
without receiving compensation, whenever required.
(e) Persons having only a very small portion of structure in the clear
area, will receive compensation for this small portion, but may prefer
to reside/carry on business in the remaining portion. In such cases,
the District Committees are requested to grant permission but ensure
that no new construction is allowed in the ROW.   In such cases, a
pledge may be taken as specified in -ircular No. 704, dated 16 June
1990. Such measures will minimize ha dships to the affected families.
(f) Compensation at full replacement c t will be paid for genuine cases,
namely:
(i) Constructed work is prior to 21 Dec. 1982, or
(ii) Constructed work after 21 Dec. 1982, having permit of Provincial,
District or Commune agency or is located on lands provided by
wards, villages, precinct, district, provincial or municipal
government echelons, for the present purpose.
(g) Structure constructed after 21 Dec. 1982 and without permit of
Provincial, District or Commune authority, shall be compensated at 60%
of  the  rate  fixed  for structures  constructed  with permit.    If
displaced, such families shall be eligible for houseplot also.
Houseplot shall be 60 sqm or equivalent in area to earlier plot,
whichever is more.
(h) Compensation for individual cases shall be decided by a R&R Committee,
which is set up by the concerned District Committee, and which
includes 2 PAP representatives and a representative of PMUI.  Care
shall be taken by this Committee to ensure that there is very little
difference between rates decided for adjoining areas of two Districts.
(i) A number of families may prefer to acquire houseplots themselves based
on  their  selection/preference.    In such  case,  part  of  the  due
compensation shall be paid by the District Committee only after
verifying that the affected person proposes to spend the money, in a
benefit way and for the purpose for which it was given directlv to the



- 43 -                             Annex 2
Page 5 of 10
seller.  A liberate view shall be taken to permit all purchases of
productive assets (housing, building up inventory for business, etc.).
(j)  Subsistence allowance shall be given to all affected families who are:
(i) Relocated to a new site, or
(ii) Need to construct a new house near old site.
The assistance will be given in kind (in form of rice) and not in
cash. The amount of this assistance is equivalent to US$15 per month.
Total assistance shall be US$90 per family (in kind) for 2 persons per
family for a period of three months. Subsistence Allowance shall be
paid in two equal installments. The first installment shall be paid
after a PAP starts to dismantle his houseplot and the second shall be
paid when he starts to construct his new house or shop.
(k)  Shifting Assistance:  The District Committees shall assist all persons
relocated in shifting of the salvage materials of the hose and
household, goods by provided rented trucks, etc., and amount of this
assistance shall not exceed US$30 per family. This is also not to be
paid  in cash to PAPs.   The Ministry of Transport  will provide
technical assistance in constructing new structure appropriate designs
for housing, if requested by affected persons, such as marking legal
limit of ROW, clear area zone.
(1)  Rate of Compensation:  The rate of compensation is likely to vary as
the cost of construction and land depend on specific location and
area. Moreover, this is to be decided by the District Committee after
considering local circumstances and each individual case. However,
the below rates of compensation serve as a useful guide for the whole
length of the project (430 km).  There will be no depreciation, i.e.,
a 20% discount rate will not be used to bring present cost of
construction (cited below) to current market rates. The below rates
of compensation are based on current replacement costs:
Averacte in USS per sa. m
Compensation of Permanent Construction                           so
Compensation of Semi-permanent Construction                      70
Compensation of Temporary Structure                              30
Compensation for land under structure                            10.90
Compensation for open land around structure                       6.60
(m)  Farmlands:  Farmer cultivating crops in the Clear Area (7 m from toe
of new embankment) will be permitted to continue cultivation.  If, at
any future date, the land is permanently required for the project,
these agricultural lands shall be compensated as given below:
Those families losing less than 50% of their total landholding shall be
compensated at full replacement costs or given equivalent land (of the same
area as the affected land and same crop productively) in the vicinity, at
the farmer's choice.



- 44 -                             Annex 2
Page 6 of 10
(i)  Those families losing more than 50% of their landholling shall
be compensated by being given land (of the same crop
productivity) equivalent in area to their earlier holding and
their total holding shall be acquired.
(ii) If  only  standing  crop  is  affected  during  the  Project
implementation, only compensation for standing crop will be paid
by PMU1, as per existing Government rules, to all such persons.
(n)  Training:   Properties will be compensated at replacement costs to
ensure that affected persons businesses continue at the new
resettlement sites. So that there will be no need for any of the PAPs
to change their occupation, it is decided to provide training to all
PAPs in the age group 17-21 years, who will be relocated, so that the
household's income improves after resettlement.   Training will be
provided in:
*    cane and bamboo crafts,
*    other cottage industries,
*    carpentry,
*    typing,
*    vehicle driving,
TV repairing,
*    cycle/motorcycle repairing,
*    car and heavy vehicle repairing,
*    painting (indoor/body work),
*    refrigeration repairing,
*    air conditioner repairing,
*    electrician,
*   plumbing,
*    lathe-operation (fitters),
*    welding,
*    English-speaking,
Computer Data entry, etc.
Training will be imparted for only those vocations for which the
member of the displaced PAP families has given his/her preference, and
for which, he/she has the required educational qualifications.
The project road sections stretch over 430 km. Economic and financial
feasibility will vary considerably as the various segments are passing
through different provinces, varying considerably in resources, job
opportunities etc. The economic and financial feasibility of pursuing
various training will be verified from the local Employment and
Training Assistant of the concerned District Committee, before being
sanctioned.
Payment for the training will be made directly to the large number of
Government and registered private training institutions existing in
each District. A list of such training institutes is available with
each Employment and Training Assistant of the concerned District.
Only approved and reputable training institutes will be assigned the
task of training.



- 45 -                          Annex 2
Page 7 of 10
The period of training will vary from 2 to 6 months, depending on the
type of training. A maximum amount of US$100 is allocated in the cost
estimate.
It is decided that 30% of this training assistance will be reserved
for women. On successful completion of the training, the persons will
be only assisted to get loans under Government schemes for the
unemployed or from banks. Details of selection procedure eligibility,
training institutes, Government schemes, linkage with Government
schemes will be finalized by April 1994.
(o)  Appeals Mechanism:   If any PAP is aggrieved by the decision of the
District Resettlement Committee, regarding any aspect of the
compensation or other benefits due to him, he can prefer an appeal,
against  the  decision  of  the  above  Compensation  Board,  to  the
Provincial R&R Committee.
The Provincial Committee shall consist of a representative of the
Inspection Department, and others as specified in Chapter 4 of the
RRAP.
During the appeal, a personal hearing shall be given to the aggrieved
person, who would be allowed to produce documents in support of his
case. Such appeals shall be decided in a summary manner, and there
shall be no need to record evidence,  statements,  etc.   Detailed
procedures for applying this mechanism will be developed and prov-ded
to IDA by January 1994 for comments and incorporation into the
monitoring and evaluation plan due by March 31, 1994 (see para. 9
below)
organizational Arrangements
7.        The Highway 1A Project Management Unit  (PMUi) of the Ministry of
Transport (MOT) will be the responsible MOT agency for supervising all RRAP
activities and forwarding funds to the provincial governments (Peoples
Committees) for all costs involved.
8.        The Provisional Peoples Committees in the 10 provinces where the
project road sections are located are responsible for the overall planning and
overseeing of the RRAP implementation and all policy decisions are taken at this
level. The District Peoples Committee in the 33 affected districts are directly
responsible for implementing the RRAP through their offices for planning, land
administration, construction, transport, utilities (water and electricity) and
communications.
Implementation and Monitoring
9.        The   implementation   of  the  RRAP  is  expected   to  start   in
November/December 1993 and be completed by the end of 1994. The implementation
will be monitored through quarterly progress reporting by PMU1 and by IDA staff
on regular supervision missions. The monitoring of the effectiveness and the
socioeconomic impact of resettlement on the population affected would be
undertaken after a certain time interval following completion of the



- 46 -                             Annex 2
Page 8 of 10
resettlement. The methodology and extent of such monitoring would be agreed with
IDA on the basis of a plan to be submitted to IDA by March 31, 1994.
Summaries
10.       Data regarding the RRAP, showing the population affected, land and
property being required and costs involved, is presented in Appendices 1 and 2
of this Annex.



- 47 -                            Annex 2
Page 9 of 10
Socioeconomic Survey
Each PAP has been covered under the survey which was conducted during March
93 and August 93, jointly with representatives of TEDI and the District
Committees.   The latter are aware of local condition and have signed the
questionnaire/schedule as a token of verification.   The baseline database
provides the following information:
1.   No. of Affected persons                                   X    48,363
2.   Number of Affected families                               a    10,722
3.   No. of Affected owners that need to be relocated
(displaced)                                               a    7,263
4.   No. of Affected Owners that do not need to be
relocated as they have sufficient, remaining property          3,459
5.   Owners using affected structures for
- Business                                                5,492
- Only residence                                          5,230
- Farming activities                                =    Nil
6.   Percentage of structures built without permit
(estimate)                                                =    23%
7.   No. of Temporary Structures                               =    6,606
8.   No. of Semi-permanent Structures                          =    4,281
9.   No. of Permanent Structures                               =    1,187
10.  Total number of structures                                =    12,074
11.  Total area of affected farmland (sqm)                           0



-48-                                              Annex 2
Page 10 of 10
RESETTLEMENT - COST ESTIMATE
TOTAL COST FOR COMPENSATION PROVIDING NEW HOUSES, ETC.
Quantity                           Cost (USD)
No.             Items            Unit                                Unit             .                 Total (USD)
Hanoi-Vinh    HCM-CT       price    Hnaoi-V'inh    HCM-CT
I   Affected Structure
1.   Perm. Structure (grade I)  sqm         14,805       18,596       80      1,184.400    1,487,680    2.672,080
2.   Semi-permanent Structure    sqm         54,720       62,598       7()    3,83C.400     4,381,860    8,212,260
3.   Temp. Structure (grade IV)   sqm        80,218       145,150      30      2 406 540    4354.50       6.761.040
Total I                                                         7I4.1,340    10,224,040   17,645,380
II   Lands
I .   Area of land under Structure   sqm    149,743      226,344
2.   Area of land under Structure   sqm     119,794       181,075     10.9     1,305,755     1,973,718    3.272,473
to be compensation (*)
3.   Open land around structures             56,943       34,902       12       375.824       230.353      603.741
Total 11                                                        1,681,579     2,204,071    3,885,650
III   Cost fo! new buiiding elect.
post and moving elect. lines
1.   Low tension elec/tel posts  post        1,293        2,482      169       218,517       419,458      637,975
2.   High tension elec posts     post           127          237      845       107,315       200,265      307,580
3.   Cable of high tension elect  km          4,838           88   31,200       150,946     2,745,600    2,896,546
4.   Cable of low tension elect   kim        36,137          919    6,754       244,069     6,206,926    6,450,995
5.   Telephone lines              km          1,682          776      450         7 569       349200       356769
Total III                                                         728,416     9,921,449   10,649,865
Illa.  Total Ill replacement costs                                               364,208     4,960,725    5,324.932
(50% of nev material costs)
IV   Other Compensation
I.   Cost for preparing new     house        3,603         5,012      300      1,080,900    1,503,600    2,584,500
houseplots/civic amenities  plot
Total houseplots
2.   Cost of subsist. allowance  house        3,354        3,909       90       301,860       351,810      653,670
(2 persons/household to     hold
receive US$15/mo x 3mo's)
Total households
3.   Cost of shifting house     house         3,603        5.012       30       108,090       150,360      258,450
materials to new site       hold
(cost for I family = US$30)
Total households
4.   Cost of providing training  PAPs         3,354         3,909     100       335.400       390900       726300
(US$100/eligible PAP)
Total PAPs
Total IV           _                                             1,826,250    2,396,670    4,222,920
V    Cost of I+11+lIla+IV                                                     12,690,994    21,621,759   34,312,752
Expenditure for
Administration 5%                                                                                   1710.00
Total                                                                .                   32,789,000



- 49 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
VIET NAM
Proposed HighwaY Rehabilitation Prolect
Fun ctions and Composition of Highway lA Project Management Unit
The Ministry of Transport (MOT) has established the Highway lA Project
Management Unit (PMU1) to coordinate the preparation and be responsible for the
implementation of highway projects which are being considered for financing by
the International Development Association (IDA) and the Asian Development Bank
and which involve Highway 1A.
MOT and the IDA have agreed at technical discussions on the project,
held in Hanoi September 15 to 18, 1993, that the responsibilities, functions and
composition of the PMU1 will be as described below:
PMU1 Functions During Project Preparation
1.   Obtain  Government  zomments  and  approvals  on  technical,  financial,
organizational and other relevant aspects of proposed projects. As
required, manage the process of modifying any documents, so they are
acceptable to Government and IDA. This will include, but not be limited
to, the following documents:
-    Development Credit Agreements, to be signed by Viet Nam and IDA;
drafts of such agreements will be sent to MOT prior to credit
negotiations;
-    Organization and composition of proposed project, as will be
described in the Bank's staff appraisal. report; a copy of draft was
provided to MOT prior to credit negotiation;
-    Final technical designs for highway schemes to be financed under
IDA projects;
-    Advertisements for the prequalification of highway construction
contractors, to be placed in the local (including English
language) press;
Prequalification questionnaires and accompanying documents, to be
given to contractors responding to the advertisements;
-    Tender documents, which will form the basis for international
competitive bidding;
-    Procedures for tender opening and bid evaluation;
-    Terms of reference, letters of invitation and consultants'



- 50 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
shortlists for construction supervision, studies and technical
assistance components to be funded under proposed projects;
Evaluation of consultant proposals and recommendation of contract
awards; and
Proposals for local budgets for project preparation and
implementation.
2.   Manage tendering process for highway rehabilitation schemes. This will
include, but not be limited to the following:
-    Evaluation of prequalification applications by international
building contractors, obtaining IDA approvals and notification of
results to contractors.
-    Tendering process, including invitation of prequailified
contractors to submit bids, site visits, and prebid meetings with
interested contractors.
-    Evaluation of bids and contract award recommendations.
3.   Manage the process of consultant selection for such service as
construction supervision, advice to the PMU1, and studies.
4.   Maintain close liaison with IDA to expedite the processing of the credit
agreement and other project documents.
5.   Provide administrative support to Vietnamese and foreign consultants
involved in project preparation. This would include such aspects as
approvals, clearance of data, requests to Ministries other than MOT for
cooperation, etc.
6.   Provide logistical support to persons visiting Viet Nam in connection
with the project, including shortlisted consultants, prequalified
contractors and IDA missions. This would include such aspects as visa
clearances, police registrations, airplane and hotel reservations,
arranging of meetings, translation services, local transport etc.
7.   Translate and distribute aide-memoirs, questionnaires and other
documents prepared by visiting IDA missions.
8.   Collect questionnaire responses and other data required for project
preparation and translate them into English -- whenever possible before
the next mission visits Viet Nam, so the data can be handed over at the
beginning of their visit.
9.   Maintain coordination with UNDP, ADB and other international
organizations interested in the development of Viet Nam's highway
system.



- 51 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
Role of PMU. in Inilementina Rehabilitation Schemes of Highwav IA
1.   Prequalify building contractors: advertise, issue questionnaires,
evaluate responses, prepare evaluation report with recommendations for
IDA approval, notify applicants of prequalified firms.
2.   Select contractor(s) through international competitive bidding (ICB):
issue documents to prequalified firms, conduct pre-bid site visits,
conduct public bid opening, evaluate bids, prepare evaluation report,
obtain Government and IDA approvals, conclude Contract Agreement with
selected firm(s), obtain approvals.
3    Select Engineer consultant for highway contracts: prepare terms of
reference (TOR), shortlist qualified firms, prepare letters of
invitation and supplementary documents, invite proposals, define
evaluation criteria and procedures, evaluate, prepare evaluation report,
negotiate contract with selected firm(s), obtain Government and IDA
approvals.
4.   Select foreign advisors for PMU1: prepare TOR, identify qualified
individuals, select among qualified candidates for each position,
conclude agreements, obtain necessary approvals.
S.   Perform functions of Employer during implementation of highway
contracts(s): receive and approve securities and insurance, instruct
Engineer as required by contract(s), make payments, report on works
progress, issue acceptance certificates on completed works.
Other PMUl Functions During Protect Implementation
1.   Manage all procurement aspects of the project. This will include the
procurement of highway maintenance equipment and ferries through ICB:
prepare bid documents, advertise, conduct bidding and evaluation
process, obtain approvals, conclude contracts, make payments.
2.   Manage the selection of consultants to be engaged under the project:
prepare terms of reference (TOR), shortlist qualified firms, prepare
letters of invitation and supplementary documents, invite proposals,
define evaluation criteria and procedures, evaluate, prepare evaluation
report, negotiate contract with selected firm(s), obtain Government and
IDA approvals.
3.   Assist in resolving any problems that may arise during the execution of
contracts funded under IDA projects.
4.   Act as MOT's responsible agent for the technical and administrative
supervision of studies and technical assistance components.
5.   Manage organizational and financial aspects of the project's training
component.



- 52 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
6.   Monitor and evaluate physical and financial progress of the project. For
all project components, prepare quarterly progress reports for the
Government and IDA, to be submitted to IDA in English.
7.   Within 4 months after the closing of the credit, prepare the Borrower's
part of a Project Completion Report in a format provided by IDA.
B.   Ensure that Government make adequate budget allocations for the project,
and that funds be made available in a timely manner.
9.   Prepare and submit disbursement requests to IDA.
10.  Mlanage the flow of project funds and maintain all accounts for the
project; ensure that audit reports be sent to IDA within six months
after the end of each fiscal year.
11. Facilitate periodic visits by IDA missions to review the progress and
quality of project implementation.
12.  Coordinate the preparation of future IDA projects to support Viet Nams
transport sector.
Composition of PMUl
It was agreed that at the conclusion of negotiations for the Highway
Rehabilitation Project, the PMU1 would be placed under the leadership of a
Director General and a Vice-Director General and, in addition to the
international experts to be provided under the project, would be expanded by a
sufficient number of competent staff that would work exclusively on
project-related activities and would therefore have to be freed from any other
responsibilities. It is understood that MOT will provide adequate office
accommodations, including direct telephone connections and easy access to fax
machines. The composition of full-time local PMU1 staff would be approximately
as follows:
-    Manager
-    Engineers
-    Accountant
-    Translators
-    Secretary
-    Driver
Manager.  The personal capabilities of the PMU1 Manager are key to
the success of the entire project. He should have broad experience in public
administration, with a demonstrated ability to make decisions and to quickly
obtain approval from higher authorities where this is required. He should
become familiar with all aspects of project preparation and, desirably, become
a member of the Vietnamese delegation that visits Washington to negotiate the
IDA credit for the Highway Rehabilitation Project.



- 53 -                           AM      
Page 5 of 5
P-rofessional and Support Staff. The other PM`U1 staff could be more
junior. It is recommended that in their selection, special emphasis be placed on
a good knowledge of written and spoken English.
Encrineering  Advisor/Contract  Specialist.        This  internationally
recruited advisor should be a senior highway engineer with extensive engineering
and managerial experience in the implementation of major highway projects carried
out by international contractors in developing countries. He should be engaged
for an initial two-year period, with a possible extension for another two years.
His assistance would be required in the overall coordination of project
implementation; evaluation of bids and awards of contracts; monitoring of
performance by construction companies, suppliers and consultants; contribution
to quarterly progress reports; and in facilitating the IDA's supervision of the
project. Advertisements for this key position would be placed in the
international press, soon after negotiations for the Highway Rehabilitation
Project have been concluded.
Financial  Advisor/Accountant.    The  financial  advisor  would  be
internationally recruited to assist the PMUl full-time during the first year of
the project, and intermittently thereafter. He should be an accounting
professional with prior experience in the handling of IDA projects, and would
thus be familiar with the procedures. His tasks would include: (a) developing a
system for maintaining project accounts that are acceptable to Government and the
IDA, (b) advising the PMUl on accounting issues, (c) assisting the PMUI in the
preparation of withdrawal applications to be sent to the IDA, (d) coordinating
the preparation of the financial sections of the quarterly progress reports to
be sent to IDA, and (e) assisting the auditors in their work.
Budget for PMUl
The expenditures for the PMUI. would be part of the overall project
costs. Salaries, equipment and other facilities provided by MOT would come from
the Government's share of the financing of the project, covering the local costs
of PMUIl for a period of up to five years.
The IDA credit for the Highway Rehabilitation Project would cover the
costs of the international advisers, audit services and equipment required for
the execution of the PMtJ's work. The total foreign costs for PMEJJ during the
project period have been estimated at about $2.3 million, of which $1.65 million
are for: about 82 person-months of advisory services, about $0.3 million for audit
services audit services, and the remainder for equipment.



VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1993                 1994                         1995                          1996                          1997                   1998
Components
3      4      1      2       3     4         1    2       3      4      1      2       3      4       1       2       3      4       1       2
RESETTLEMENT                   --      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxX
CIVIL WORKS
Prequaificion                 ---------- xxxxxxx
Tendering/contract award             ---------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Consnuction                                               ----------xaxxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxaxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Supervision of construction         -------------------------------- x XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX%XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
FERRY CROSSINGS
Rehabilitation of ferries                                               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxX                                                       n
Construction of new ferries                     ---------------------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxXX
Supervision of rehab./const.                    --------------------------- xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Technical assistance                               --------------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
PROCUREMENT OF
EQUIPMENT
For road maintenance             ------------------------------------------ xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
For laboratoties                         ------------------------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Implementation support and               --------------------------------------------------------
project preparation                            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxaxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxX
istittional development      --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
TRAINING PROGRAM                    --------------------------------------------
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxXXxxxxXxxxxxxxxxxx
Legend: -------   Preparation/documentation/selectionprocess for activity.                                                                                                          X
xxxxx     Implementation of activity.



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
S-uervision InDut
1.               The staff input indicated in the table below refers to field missions
only and is in addition to regular supervision needs at headquarters for review
of progress and audit reports and consultants' reports on technical assistance
and studies, procurement actions, correspondence, etc., which is estimated at
five staff weeks in the first 12 months after Board approval and four staff weeks
in each four subsequent 12 month periods. The supervision input is estimated to
total 77 staff-weeks, of which 25 would be at headquarters and 52 in the field.
This input is higher than the average but is dictated by the ne-ness of Viet
Nam's involvement in IDA projects.
Approximate                                  Activity                                  Expected Skills            Staff
Dates                                                                                 Requirement             Weeks
January 1994         Initial Review.  Expedite start-up including credit    Highway Engineering                        4
e  ectiveness; review set-up and selection of local    Environment
staff and advisors to the Project Management Unit                Resettlement
(PMUt; status of procurement document for civil
works, goods and consultants; status of land
acquisition/resettlement.
April 1994           ProJect Launch Workshop:  Review all key procedures               Highway Engineering             1
for IDA/Executing Agency interactions such as                    Procurement
project management, procurement, disbursement,                   Disbursement
environment/resettlement, implementation schedule,               Resettlement
progress reporting and project accounting,  Also                 Environment
review and agree on TOR for all consultant services.    Transport Economics
October 1994         Supervision Mission.  Detailed review of overall                  Highway Engineering             4
progress, address issues and identify potential                  Resettlement
issues and agree on follow-up actions; finalize
arrangements for monitoring of resettlement.
April 1995           Supervision Mission.  General review of progress and   Highway Engineering                        5
project status                                                   Training
October 1995         Supervision Mission.  Detailed review                             Highway Engineering             S
Resettlement
(Procurement)
April 1996           Supervision Mission.  General review                              Highway Engineering             3
October 1996         Supervision Mission.  Detailed review                             Highway Engineering             5
Resettlement
April 1997           Supervision Mission.  General review                              Highway Engineering             3
October 1997         Supervision Mission.  Detailed review and initiation    Highway Engineering                       5
of work for the PCR                                              Transport Economics
April 1998           Supervision Mission.  Comprehensive review of                     Highway Engineering             8
project implementation.                                          Transport Economics
Resettlement
Environment
Training
Total                          52
ANPiYE VY1



- 56 -
ANNEX 6
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.   Final Report for Phase I Design; C.P. Corne and Associates, Hanoi,
November 1990
2.   Final Report for Phase II Design; C.P. Corne and Associates and
FinnConsult, Hanoi, October 1991
3.   National Transportation Sector Review, BCEOM, Hanoi, 1992
Executive Summary
Vol. I          Main Report
Vol. II         Transport Demand and Traffic Forecasts
Vol. III        Roads
Vol. IV         Railways
Vol. V          Inland Waterways
Vol. VI         Ports
Vol. VII        Maritime
Vol. VIII       The Road Transport Industry and Transport Costs
Vol. IX         Urban Transport
Vol. X          Air Transport
4.   Rehabilitation of Small Bridges (Final Report), Crippen Consultants,
December 1992
5.   Assessment and Strengthening of Highway Maintenance Capabilities in Viet
Nam, Final Report, Crippen Consultants, December 1992
6.   Final Design and Tender Documents; C.P. Corne & Associates/Cook Castello
Ltd.; September 1993
7.   Draft Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan, Transport Engineering
Design Institute of MOT, Hanoi, September 30, 1993
8.   Outline terms of reference for Consultant Services to be financed under
the Project.
(a) Construction Supervision
(b) Improvements to Ferry Operations
(b) Technical Assistance to Road Maintenance Unions
(d) Training of Highway Personnel
(e) Review of Road and Bridge Standards
(f) Traffic Safetv
9.   Study on Viet Nam Highway Rehabilitation Project:  Ferry Improvements,
Volumes I-III, DanRail Consult (Denmark), January 1992 and June 1993.



VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Freight and Transport (historical and forecast)
Actual                                       Forecast
Units  |    1990        %      1991    %        1992     %         1995     %        2000     %
Highway       103 Ton    31,707.00  60.85  39,567.00  62-43  31,654.80  58.09  45,600.00  61.07  54,700.00    55.25
106 TKm     1,538.80  12.54   2,593.50  14.63   2,650.30  14.48   2,175.20  11.07   2,610.20    9.69
Railway       103 Ton     2,341.00   4.49   2,567.00   4.05   2,793.00   5.13   3,400.00   4.55   4,800.00    4.85
l6OTKm       847.02   6.91    1,103.30   6.22    1,072.95   5.86   1,050.00   5.34    1,500.00    5.57
Inland Water   I03 Ton   14,633.50  20.08  16,362.00  25.82   15,015.50  27.55  20,170.00  27.01   31,000.00    31.31
(river)     0O6 TKm      1,681.10  13.71    1,284.40   7.25   2,134.66  11.67   2,420.00  12.32   3,720.00    13.80           _
Maritime      103 Ton     3,424.90   6.57   4,883.30   7.70   5,032.00   9.23   5,500.00   7.37   8,500.00     8.59
(ocean)      I6OTKm      8,196.05  66.84   12,744.00  71.90   12,440.00  67.99   14,000.00  71.26   19,120.00   70.95
Total cargo   103 Ton    52,106.40  91.99  63,379.30    100  54,495.30    100  74,670.00    100  99,000.00      100
106 TKm    12,262.97    100  17,725.20    100  18,297.90    100  19,645.20    100  26,950.20     100
Source: TESI, February 1993.
Hu



VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Passenger Traffic
(in million passengers and passenger-km)
Actual                                                        Forecast
1990                  1991                  1992                      1995                          2000
pass. 1%     Pass-km 1lpass. | %   Pass-km  # pass.  %  I Pass-km  4 pass   %    Pass-km    %    Npass    %    Pass-km    I
I tot I               Itot. I                   tot. I               total         total          toiI total
Railway           10.50  2.81  1,913.00    9.50  1.88  1,767.00   8.80  1-84  2753.00   16.00  2.20  3,160.00  9.33    25.00  2.05 5.000.00   8.63
Highway          348.50 72.36 11,181.00  373.70 74.06  9.95540 360.20 75.15 11,844.30  578.90 70.67  7,367.00  54.6 1,050.00 86.26 31.500.00  54.40
Inland Water     121.80 25.29  1,986.00  120.20 23.82  1,677.40 106.60 22.24 '1,867.00  125.00  17.20  2,489.00  7.83   130.00  10.68 2.275.00   3.93
Maritime          0-40  0.08    56.70    0.70  0.14    36.90   1.40  0.29   40 80    1.60  0.22     64.75  0.20     2.00  0.17    87.50    0.5                        v
Aviation          0.43  0.09      na.   0.50  0.10   528.30   2.32  0.40  984 70    5.10  0.81  8,726.00 27.43    10.25  0.84 19,048.30  32.89
Domestic                              not available                            2.84  0.45  2.202.00     -    2.63      - 3,460.80      -
Overseas                                                                       3.26  0.36  6,524.00     -    7.62       - 19,045.00    -
Total            481.63 100.0     n.a.  504.60 100.0 13,965.00 479.32 100.0 16,489.80 726 60 100.00 31,806.75 100.00 1,217.25 100.00 57.910.50 100.00
Sonrce: TESI, February 1993
~r'



- 59 -
Table 1.3
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TransLort Sector Expenditures from Central Government Budget
(Dong million 1/)
Expenditre Type                        1990         1991           1992         1993
Capital Constnlution 2/
Roads                                 187,180       162,215       122,390      441,985
Railways                               26,900        27,856        68,649       77,100
Inland waterways                        3,680         3,810         5,770        15,015
Maritime transport                      6,280         7,260         4,400       25,100
Civil aviation                         19,150        15,875        21,300       60,000
Post                                   23,945        12,530        11,650            --
Subtotal                      268,965       246,010       243,450       619,200
Repairs/ Maintenance
Roads
Major Repair                         48,226        83,920        96,205      206,356
Periodic Maintenance                 23,397        34,000        56,000       78,434
Other                                 2,877         4,100         7,395         1,000
Inland waterways                        5,000        10,100        13,500        18,000
Subtotal                       79,500        132,120       173,100      303,790
Support to Local Transport 3/            68,000        88,000       121,000      300,300
Total                         416,465       466,130       537,550      1,223,290
I/ Exchange rates: 1990: US$1.00   6,500 Dong; 1991: US$1.00 = 10,000
Dong; and 1992: US$1.00 = 11,000 Dong.
2/ Includes rehabilitation.
3/ Direct SPC allocation to provincial budgets.
Source: NTSR 1992 and MOT statistics (1993).



- 60 -
Table 2.1
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Network Length by Road Class and TyDe of Surface at End 1992
Type of Surface
Total
Asphalt    Penetration    Cement                    Earth       Legth
Ctlass        Concrete    Macadam       Concrete     Gravel       Laterite     (Km.)
Km.         Km.          Km.          Km.          Km.
National Roads          3,547       3,662           66        1,302        2,776       11,353
Provincial Roads         202        2,304           19        1,858        9,815       14,198
District Roads             60        1,200           --       4,430       19,600      25,290
Village Roads            n.a.         n.a.          --          n.a.        n.a.      46,200
Urban Roads             2,070                       --          n.a.        n.a.       2,570
Special Roads            n.a.         n.a.          --          n.a.        n.a.       5,450
TOTAL                n.a.        n.a.           85         n.a.         n.a.     105,061
n.a. = not available
Source: MOT (Traffic Engineering Department) February, 1993.



- 61 -
Table 2.2
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Pavement Conditions of Some National Roads
Surveyed by NTSR in 1990
Pavement Condition
(% of Total Length)                      Total
-                ~~~~~~Length
Good  j   Fair       Poor    Very Poor      All         Surveyed
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _        ~~~ ~~~~(Kmi)
Route I                   26.0      55.2       16.6         2.2     100.0        1534
Other Roads in North       2.1      36.5       37.4        24.0     100.0        2103
Other Roads in South      17.1       53.4      15.5        14.0     100.0        1273
TOTAL               13.5       46.7      25.2        14.6      100.0       4910
Source: NTSR 1992



- 62 -
Table 2.3
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles. 1980-90
Year            Car & Pickups |    Buses         Trucks   |    Total
1980                          49,116        14,650         90,596       154,362
1988                          36,452        24,875         96,753       158,080
1990                          42,798        31,235        144,967       219,200
Annual Growth Rate (%)
1980-88                         -3.8           6.9            0.9           0.3
1980-90                         -1.4           7.9            4.9           3.6
1988-90                          8.4          12.1           22.4           17.8
Source: Police, Traffic Department, February 1993.



- 63 -
Table 2.4
VIET NA.M
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
RRU Nu2twork
RRMm                                            From - To
Highway No.           From - To (placenames)       (km - km)      Length (km)
RRMU 2
QL 1                Hun nghi guan - Dec xay              0 - 285           285
QL 2                Phu lo - Thanh thuy                  0 - 313           312
QL5                 Can chui - Hai phong                  0 - 92            93
QL 6                Thanhxuan - Tuan giao                9 - 394           397
Ql 279              Tuan giao - Tay trang                0 - 116            116
Subtotal                                                                1203
RRMU 4
QLI                 Doc say - Hai Van                  285 - 905           622
Subtotal                                                                 622
RRMU 5
QL I                Hai Van - Hiep thans              905 - 1525           607
QL 14               Thans my - Kham duc                298 - 381             83
Cay thanh - Pac pret               196 - 708           516
QL 19               Ngo lea lea Zi - Duc co             15 - 247           220
QL 26               Ninh hoa - Buonmat Sinit             0 - 151            151
Subtotal                                                                1577
RRMU 7
QL 20               Pau giay - Palat DonduogNga          0 - 268           268
QL 22               lea Ansuong - Moc bas                 0 - 59            59
QL 22B              Go dau ha - Xamat                     0 - 78            78
QL 27               Phinnom - Pham rang                174 - 274            100
QL 30               An huiu - Hong ngu                    0 - 92            92
QLS1                Baria - Nga ba Vung tau               0 - 86            86
QL 52               Saigon - Thu tric                     0 - 15             15
QL 53               Vinh long - Tra vinh                  0 - 66            66
QL 80               Mytisman - Vamn long               127 - 180            53
Ngo lea lo te - Kinh b             183 - 212            29
QL 91               Ngao ba Vanteong - Can Tho           11 - 61            50
Subtotal                                                               1,873
Total 4 RRMUs                                 _        .    __           5,275 km
Source: MOT (Traffic Engineering Department), February, 1993.



- 64 -
Table 2.5
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staff of Regional Road Manafement Unions by Categorv. 1991
(Number of Persons)
RRMU
Category                      2              4               7             Total
Management
Directors General &
Deputy Directors General                       4              6               5             15
Directcrs & Deputy
Directors of Departments                       9             20              14             43
Directors & Deputy Directors
of Union Enterprises,
Chiefs & Deputy Chiefs of
Enterprises' Divisions,
and Production Groups                        380            412             124            916
Specialists                                    41              21             15             77
Assistants                                    177             338            122            637
Engineers & Asst. Engineers
Masters Degree Level                            --             --              1
University Graduates &
Junior College Gradurtes                     258            153             128             539
High School Graduates                         348             210            130              688
Supnort Personnel                             485             655            204            1,344
Workers
(Skilled and Unskilled)                      5,068          5,396          2,877           13,341
TOTAL                                  6,770           7,211          3,620           17,601
Source: RRMUs, April 1991.



- 65 -                                         Table 3.1
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
List of Equipment
(as agreed at negotiations)
(Cost In US$'000)
Equipment item                 Unh                        Number for _                       Total
cost    TEDI   RRMU2    RRMU4    RRMU7             Total     cost
First Lot of Maintenance Eauipment                                                           j
Vibratory roller (2.5 t)                  30.0                5          2          5          12         360
Vibratory plate (5 hp)                     5.0               10          4          10        24          120
Roadmarking paint unit (towed)            10.0                4          2          4          10         100
Brushcutter (handheld mover)               1.0               10          4          10        24           24
Pickup truck (0.5 t, large cab)           10.0                5          2          5          12         120
Pickup truck (1.5t serv./repair)          15.0                5          2          5          12         180
Minibus (for 7-10 p)                      20.0                2'         1          2          5          100
Bitumen kettle/spray (15001)              10.0                4          2          4         10          100
Dump truck (7t)                           35.0               10          4          10        24         840
Communications equipment                  15.0                5          2          5         12          180
Road broom (towed)                        10.0                2          1          2          5           50
Tow tractor                               10.0                2          1          2          5           50
Trailer (for tractor or pickup)            5.0                5          2          5         12          60
Workshop equipment (set)                  50.0               2           1          2          5         250
Backhoe/front-end loader                  55.0                5          2          5         12         660
Grader                                   180.0                1          1          1          3         540
Survey Vehicle (4WD)                      20.0                3'         1          1          5          100
Subtotal                                     .                                                   _ 3.834
Laboratory and Design Eguipment
Marshall test (complete test)              4.5        1       1          1          1          4           18
Sieve set                                  1.0        2       2          2          2          8            8
Light drill (10 hp)                       12.0        1       0          1          0          2          24
Portab!e core drill (up to 150 mm)         3.0        2       1          1          1          5           15
Viscometer (standard)                      1.0        2      2           2          2          8           8
Benkelmami beam                            1.5        2       2          2          2          8           12
Roughness meter (NAASRA or similar         5.0        1       1          1          1          4          20
Dipstick                                  15.0        1       1          0          1          3          45
Tripmeter                                  2.5        2       2          2          2          8          20
Distomat wild D14L                        40.0        0       1          0          0          1          40
Compressor testing machine (100t)         25.0        1       0          0          0          1           25
Survey vehicle (4wd)                      20.0        1       0          0          0          1          20
Diazo (light) printer                      7.0        1      0           0          0          1           7
Drafting equipment                         3.0        1       0          0          0          1            3
Photocopying machine (for Al)             15.0        1      0           0          0          1           15
Computer plus printet                      4.0        0      6'          2          5         13           52
Photocopying machine                       3.0        0      6a          2          5         13           39
Subtotal                                                                                              371
Total                                                                                                4.205
a. Including one for VNRA.



- 66 -                                       Table 3.2
VET NAM - HiGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proiect Cost by Component
(In million of US$)
Component                                                Local     Foreign      Total       % Foreign
A. Road Rehabilitation
Civil works on Route IA                            11.56       65.54      77.10          85
Supervision of construction                         1.50        6,00       7.50          80
Blackspot improvement                               0.09        0.50       0.59          85
Feasibility and Engineering Studies                 0.33        2.97        3.30         90
Subtotal A                              13.48       75.01       88.49         85
B. Ferry Operations
New ferry boats                                     0.32        2.92       3.24          90
Rehabilitation of existing ferries and spares       0.24        2.12       2.36          90
Cormnunication equipment                            0.01        0.07       0.08          95
Supervision of boat construction & rehabilitation   0.04        0.36       0.40          90
Technical assistance for ferry operations           0.04        0.38       0.42          90
Civil works for access roads                        0.30        1.70       2.00          85
Subtotal B                               0.95        7.55        8.50         89
C. Equivment
For road maintenance                                0.42        8.05        8.47         95
For road laboratories and traffic control           0.06        1.12        1.18         95
For road traffic safety                             0.02        0.30       0.32          95
For PMU                                             0.01        0.27       0.28          95
Subtotal C                               0.51        9.74       10.25         95
D. Technical Assistance
(a) ImDlementation support and mroiect preparation
PMUI advisors                                    0.16        1.49        1.65         90
Preparation of training program                  0.02        0.13        0.15         90
Subtotal (a)                             0.18        1.62        1.80         90
(b) Institutional Development
For Road Management Unions                       0.46        4.14        4.60         90
Road and bridge standards                        0.06        0.54        0.60         90
Road traffic safety                              0.74        6.66        7.40         90
Subtotal (b)                             0.56        5.04       5.60          90
Subtotal D                               0.74        6.66       7.40          90
E. Trainine Program                                      0.60        1.40       2.00          70
Total Base Cost                         16.28      100.36      116.64         86
F. Contingencies
Physical'                                           2.19       13.46       15.65         86
Price'                                              1.53        9.38       10.91         86
Subtotal F                               3.72       22.84      26.56          86
G. Resettlement and Rehabilitation                      20.23        8.67      28.90          30
H. Land Acquisition                                      3.90           -        3.90          0
Total Proiect Cost                      44.13      131.87       176.0         75
a. 15% on road rehabilitation works; 10% on other expenditures.
b. 2.8% annual price increases.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 6 7 -                                       Table 3.3
VIET NAM - HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proiect Cost by Tvye of Expenditure
(US$ million)
Type of Expenditure                                      Local     Foreign       Total      % Foreign
A. Civil Works
Road rehabilitation on Route IA                    11.56       65.54       77.10         85
Blackspot irnprovement                              0.09        0.50        0.59         85
Access roads for ferry crossings                    0.30        1.70        2.00         85
Subtotal A                      11.95       67.74      79.69          8S
B. Ferries
New ferries                                         0.32        2.92        3.24         90
Rehabilitation of existing ferries and spares       0.24        2.12        2.36         90
Subtotal B                       0.56        5.04       5.60          90
C. Goods and Epuinment
Communication equipment for ferries                 0.01        0.07        0.08         95
Equipment for road maintenance                      0.42        8.05        8.47         95
Equipment for road laboratories & traffic control   0.06        1.12        1.18         95
Materials and equipment for road safety             0.02        0.30        0.32         95
Equipment for PMU                                   0.01        0.27        0.28         95
Subtotal C                       0.52        9.81       10.33         93
D. Consultant Services
(a) Implementation support and proiect preparation
Supervision of road rehabilitation               1.50        6.00        7.50         80
Supervision of ferry construction                0.04        0.36        0.40         90
PMUI advisors                                    0.16        1.49        1.65         90
Preparation of training program                  0.02        0.13        0.15         90
Feasibility and engineering of roads             0.33        2.97        3.30         90
Subtotal (a)                     2.05       10.95       13.00         85
(b) Institutional Development
For Road Management Unions                       0.46        4.14        4.60         90
Road and bridge standards                        0.06        0.54        0.60         90
Road traffic safety                              0.04        0.36        0.40         90
For Ferry Operations                             0.04        0.38        0.42         90
Subtotal (b)                     t.60        5.42        6.02         90
Subtotal D                       2.65       16.37       19.02         86
E. Training Program                                      0.60        1.40        2.00         70
Total Base Cost                 16.28      100.36      116.64         87
F. Contineencies
Physical'                                           2.19       13.46       15.65         86
Priceb                                              1.53        9.38       10.91         86
Subtotal F                       3.72       22.84       26.56         86
G. Resettlement and Rehabilitation                      20.23        8.67       28.90         30
H. Land Acquisition                                      3.90           -        3.90          0
Total Proiect Cost              44.13      131.87      176.00         75
a. 15% on road rehabilitation works; 10% on other expenditures
b. 2.8% annual price increases.



- 68 -
Table 3.4
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA fiscal year and  Diobur4ement              Cumulative           Disbursement
semester ending          in a                                      profile for
semester                                    transport
US$ million   US$ million   .                  projects
1994
December 31, 1993           0.0             0.0             0              0
June 30, 1994               5.0             5.0            3               2
1-995
December 31, 1994           8.0            13.0            8               7
June 30, 1995               19.0           32.0            20             20
1996
December 31, 1995           24.0           60.0            38             38
June 30, 1996               28.0           88.0            56             56
1997
December 31, 1996           18.0           106.0           67             67
June 30, 1997               16.0           122.0           77             77
1998
December 31, 1997           16.0           138.0           87             87
June 30, 1998               13.0          151.0            95             55
1999
December 31, 1998           4.0            155.0           98             100
June 30, 1999               3.5           158.5           100
Loan Closing: December 31, 1999
Source: Mission estimates.
Table  3 .3



69 -                                                                      Table 4.1
VIET MAN
44IGI4A   REHA9IL!TATION  PROJECT
1990 Traffic  Counts  clignoi-Virth:   hCtC-Cgn  Tho)  a
SOUTH
lurtie tcidotIoII *t            gdofl                                                                           Nj  TRAM
toooa icondilion airgodtu"   0Cl gOd                                                                            t a ttg'Clt%ftt
*_*           Pono lili47R  7  1osnnel lffous Mi4_.
resp,ect to auj)
_ logisa / till*
lt!        Kit 11,146 iit,ttifU borter
111111    It  t Irti    lElul                                                     4 xo.wzl   swtro                      .  HIiPHOT
NORTH  ~         ~           ~          ,,4*40000~~~~AC fINN .~~ g40B.:Gq0lU00
KId 0* 0071~                            71
NAnT;i                                                                   PIC 8 IPH ONa
Km~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                         r,r *$so n^              .          I   ,,ogtSt,
VIA   7K4AlZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2O  11C441,                                                                           'I' ~
BA1*s*ooo,t,%,p,At, 8hNHNA  *e                                      A 
HA ll600C 140 I4 ~                            7
- -    -    -    - - - Aii-i   ;.,,, t II0H*KA                                                MCI  0
OA   IIANG                                            L~~~~~~~~~~~~W  .440    C.4516*4
~~ '. .76.0  CAM *'Ot4                                                                            A
KM 193100   CI  KM. 04A 7000  Ae I   .l 4                             KM. 474 *  000 I Ccl'I
* 110  7114664 *ceX 0  W                         _______________ * -_ A_                              S       I c__ _
14 219 ,7. a                   A1l ti  .                   r_1A 4  |
,~~~~~~~K ,l*l,,   ,     770171 '0  * ",                ACT,,;.   ** ,,60ollr
HAN AM                                                  04                                               Z
KM,              * 9   '4   ACI *-        A
A or   .*., oci   A is    I
- i      '-0  CA. MO
NlNll_KM____4 14O A0N0 MiA                                            M SoNeU GIENG
lt9"7lC HIl * 1.4I          KM. 52 +000                                                      KM.t I`4 oo0ICNN 1
| ^*   *   4 ^ 9    6   l        SIM  SON
.74.454 6 004  K1C11.401 I 00 1C?iAU 1
CM  404 6000 IG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KA 7.
k         7 .-">                                                ACT! -44 z rio cl                                                 A,    DO      PA_N=$
(Al tA  01                         P37CN   ,,tt  C   
... 4670 H0AM nON _I ,,,,, *................. ClM   ,       *r1K  !t*4                     KM.. 5~V'0  ICI
__*____,e,cIf    QIUANG xUQNG
t    NM   rIt* Yno I te-4  AO,      ,41 Aor   ar
AId 4916 900ICUMI   AM  A44I40l7451(14M
Ao                           -' 7K    *IC  ' A Al  h    
,,Asoooea4 350s*o7c                                           wr SOOCIII   (;E                         ooi 1 CMI'd               fllza
Km, is       . 4o    * to I ^^   0        A  j$4 O00 COI I    Hk)NAt                               8?0$  Act
45 1A1    to rv40 CMY 
ARIAPO*   OANG  MAI 4s 4                                     roa t                                           CA47
| ^ o ' U' e   ' 4';l.   4-7716 4446  *200I ICP7 It             r.*f.of                                                        6AN  LAC
I .I .4776019     16 ,'^"rPr"K  P$I                                                                     ICAM I           -gll'   MCI A
''.*4  43006 0jNH II1676UIEN  CIIAU                                                                                IN r,  * Ar    man6KA
7171 tI  t'3741I47     *cK 5474
A         TilluR1                            a  T o  to  H C  whot  is   o  K M  b0    t n  1h   o  t"" 
->0-tS IIU    t 'mNH I                                   "      0   4^ m 
.,~~~QA   HANf                              r          O srlar*svrr t4s I)rtssIc s
N IF_  rAOu .1VI nH I                          4 to       4 !I_=S
I' *4  .0"') -*          04 1A   t
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C   No                                                                   0. a
| titilF  *                           ~         ~        ~~~~~~I gmd 2zoztaog0 - tclm   kMY TlIkUAN
V:i" lo  lip Iraflic Ililt,            l                                                                       erl^    II'* 
-11ro)JAUIaI r6 Ir n eI lIP  An uo  Ii710                                                                                 40  .*  a  cN     
IFiI esurvoiltin !;     Pwr!efrl RUI A1tl,    ', 
h11t oqla1: lote )lp   rittli. woorh ar.                              206                  *0C2.4 CANS TFH3OO,
a       includes  section  NH{A  Tranci tc  HfiMC  which  is  noe  in  the  or,:iect.



- 70 -                             Table 4.2
VIZT NAN
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJZCT
Financial Status of Ferry Znterarises
1989     1    1990           1991
(Million Dong)
I.   Hau Giang Ferry
Ferry Receipts            3,300          3,981         4,562
Operating Costs           1,400          1,217         1,394
Surplus                   1,900          2,754         3,168
Transfer to Union         1,800          2,593         2,928
Net Profit                   100            171          240
II. My Thuan Ferry
Ferry Receipts            3,500          4,251         4,834
Operating Costs           1,600          1,537         1,619
Surplus                   1,900          2,714         3,215
Transfer to Union         1,700          2,627         3,020
Net Profit                  200             87          195
Source:  RMMOU7, .993



- 71 -
Table 4.3
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ferry Vessel Characteristics
My Thuan                               Hau Giang
Age           No.        Tonnage         Age          No.       Tonnage
1962           2            100          1969          2          100
1965           1            100          1965          1          100
1972           3            100          1971          2          100
1973           1            100          1972          1          100
1975           1            200          1973          1          100
1987           1            100          1976          1          200
Total           9                        Total          9
In 1990, 76,000 trips were made at a   In 1990, 46,000 trips were made
cost of D 15,000 per return trip or    at a cost of D 20,000 per return
D 7,500 per trip.  Around 5-8             trip or, D 10,000 per trip.
minutes were required for both            Around 10-12 minutes were
loading and unloading (10-16 minutes   required for loading and
per trip), and 12 minutes for river    unloading (20-22 minutes per
crossing for a maximum of 28 minutes   trip), and 13-15 minutes per
per round trip.  Peak hours are 7 am   river crossing, for a maximum of
to 1 pm.  This accounts for 60% of        37 minutes per trip.  Peak hours
total daily traffic.                      are 5 am to 2 pm.  This accounts
for 60% of total daily traffic.
Source: RRMU7 (1991)



- 72 -                             Table 4.4
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Traffic Characteristics
(1990)
My Thuan                    Can Tho
Travel Type      Total No.    Annual Growth    Total No.    Annual Growth
1985-90                         1985-90
_______ _______(%)                              ( %)
Passengers                            10                              10
Motorcycles                           50                              50
Bicycles                              50
Cars                  246539    _    15               184,800        20.0
Buses                 510,600         15              396,000        20.0
Truck                                 15                            20.0
-    Terminal capacity at each location is 5 ferries per hour for a
round trip;
-    Waiting time has been estimated as one hour at peak times in
both locations;
-    Most vehicular trips travelling north-south originate in HCMC
and are destined for either Can Tho or deeper south. Therefore
virtually all of this traffic coming from the north passes both
ferry crossings;
-    Many of the trips going south-north originate in the furthest
southern portions with virtually all of the bus/truck/car
traffic headed toward HCMC;
Source: RRMU7 (1991)



VIF,T NAMH
Hll;HWAY RFHABIllITA7tION PROJEfCT
jjbik  VP5and Cbarac:eristics
Cuomumption daLa rcfers 1o zli, averag,e ro3ad. R-=S,0(X, IRI 6.5 (DI 1.20)
Vehicle                              PfC;L-a1a      PCAtJA2       LDVIToynta    L..V/                LGV/IFAi I LGV!Zi1             Ht,V,'NAZ      HGVI         HGVI-        VHGV/     VHGVi              Bus/PAZ         Bus/lFA      Bus
C~haracterisit,s                      2l103         31517         (private)         N luxta           SO           138              S335           Isuzu         -7    JNis=                               33s            405          Kaosa
r-conomic cost, 1991 (USS) /a             .',450        4,455            13,754          13,754          3 30f I          8,3 ;9         19.00S       MO 0t        25,678         33,747       118,258         15.509        720        4,0
Assurmect dvrage va!ec (US$)              1,7ZS          2 220            6,87S           ,6x9 7s        1,00t           Ji,17()          9 53        13,300       12,839  ,       16.874    _59,125            7.955        365        2.5
Import dutvI%l                               SO1            IS               Z               IS.ISI                                                       2-           IS             lS    _       2-             IS           15          IS
Turnvtvr tAx It% 7   _I                               _I                      lliI                                                  _         I            I            I               I            I              I            I
Finan.,al co,t, 1991 (US$l ib             h 554          3 778           IS1507(         1 Illt         4,3 .97'                         7.333        32,18h,      1 1.6671        14,275      13  8            7,222        7,444      52 559
Assumed salvage value (LJSSi                173           223               688       h     XISK                            417             954        1,13( ) l 1.284    _         1,687            5,91 _  e5 363                      2.265
Assumled life length Iyear,)                _10            I10               I{           _ 1(              1                10              10           10           it)             10          I10             10          I10           10
Gross vehicle vclRhM GyM   I2 1,(N0                      l,2()tl      . ISN IiX            ,S(X'        1(1,(Nl()                        WMSl   ;  N)  16,N)l      Ig,(iO         26,000       42,00D           6,00f;      10.000      16.0lJO1
CapAcitv passenger,                           5  -           5    -          14-       -      14                                                    - __                                                           33           40          90
CAp3ctyt Roods (k)                   ,                _      _               iXK)l 5,I                                                       SI         e         N I ,K (l.(XX) (    1oOK  4,(100  25,0f)0          -             
I ransport fcc dol|ta-It                                                                 ;IX)3r       (AliOX)          hi),IKNI       IoUX.w _I  1(XxlNN        120,1Xlo        168,()UO     300 t)D         70,000       70,000      70,000
TN Pt of fuel jP or 01 I                                     P  .           _P                ig            D)  _P                           D            D            I)              D            D               P           D            D
F~ud Pricc  ecolmmluicl  S:)(:7                     .    1                o       _          (lIXs1,1SX                                                oX           OIFOl8                       08017                       li.l8        Q l8
O'l -i olc. nsWn TOl(l() kr)              O 42                            S O  o                    XI  1 40                        >      1           75 7KI       I 75      7         00      4 00            1 40         1.50t    1 .7S
No o-f axic,                                                 2                                2 _ _.                   _                     2            2            3               5            S               2           2            2I
No o! tircs O A                                                               4               J              1               hh                                        6              19           17               6           6     _      6
Pricc De[ is llr  (ESlsS  _                   I            4"                .1X4)                        ill               IS1            iS3)                      1S3             MS           280             153         i53          053
_f wolatedi It  lif,  tko[10              31) ,(XX)     2 S ,oX)         LI ,Xs 1              X        401,OINI    ~    40 ,tX}iL      4#'M 4KI      -0 ,M)       40j,XJ)         40jK),lJ     40l,00D,       40l.l00      Vl,UUO      40,0tl(
No oi "' ctcAl                                      I       O_ t, 0i -- -                                  I S                      I         S  I S     l S                         2 0)         2-0I            2 0         3-,0         3 
_C ,v.  age% (d,,,l_q m, m h/per-,lO  I 150.(Xlo    '5(',(XXI         150(),XX)      _ fw I.        I SO.I)X)        I Szt(.NI    150.IXXXl    ISII.XNI        l SO,(X10       ISO,olO      IS(I,OOO       ISO,lXiO     15UO,KKO    15l)00
Social secutliNfRIad,un.,V% ic<)1                           17   _              lI  7_                             _         1              17           17      _     7,17                        17              1 7         17           ;7
M3mlnaeunce ',&ne ,chicIe knrL              ldO           tlN)              ltI ()iixl                    140          _ 10 IU              92  .       2(1          2'()            381          500            IIS          llS          ISO
Productives vlinic (Il t, #l 40)                                            4lN0|0,x       _            814M)I 8           (N) MM                      AW      ) ( h  OO 800   N O I,_C3I ii
Averarei:!ackl'r                         lSK3           l5,xXW           lSjxx)           00K      _2,U                 2D.X.?          2ll,lO  __ l(l,l)(N       20.tiDtl        20,tl0t)     1DOO           20,(X*O      20,lrd      20u0no
Sosuftcc NFrSR
/3  (CIF lizzur plus alhzv.ancr fo lrt s0.dcs .SAIrSd dwor.butino, 
ib  Reu;il p-,c t:! J,wg . converwd toZ I S S ,I .(u  -nlewal D9 QX IM /SS  I   Jr2ap:,.fa j*a ill,  C u .-1V(: prn-e plu sw  rlxY s 1 &CSad siSal-um  EJfc mlaremr,
le  Excludinxg sil.re                                                                                                                                                                                                                             c



VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS BY ROAD STANDARD
HC      PC  ILDV          LDV    LGV    LGV    MGV          HGV    HOV         HCV       VHGV       aums    B1$      DBs
Lada    UAZ    Toyota   Toyota   JFA        ZiJ    MAZ    MAZ    Isivu    KamAZ    Nassarn    PAZ    WA               Kaws
GOOD PAVED (R=3000  /km, IRI 4.5)
Reduction factor (t) (fl              25     25         25       75      75      75       75       75      75           7        75      90      90           90
Average speed.kmn/h (V)              90      90         75       75      55      55       55       45       45         45        45      65      50           65
dl factor                          1.0     10        1.0      10      1.      1.1      1.0      1,0      1,0        2.0        1.0     10      1.0          1.0
running costs, cikm                3.6    4.7        7.8      6.5    3.2   11 3  _126          14.8    15,3        19.1      45.1    10.8      8.9         13.0
timte costs. c/km                  0.3    0.4        [.1      1.4    1.5      2-4
Total Economic Cost. c/km            4.7     6.2      10.6      9.4   10.7   15.2       19.8     25,6    25.1        31.0       80.1    16.4    14.0         20.7
c/tonne-km                        =       =         21.2     18-7    3.6    5.1        3.7      4-3      4.2        3.7        5.3           -                -
c/passenger-km                     1.3    1,6        10       0 9                                                                -    0.2      0.2          0.3
POOR PAVED ROAD (R=6000  /km, IRI 7.5)
PC     PC       LDV      LDV    LGV    LGV        HGV      HGV    HGV        VHGV       VHGV       Bus    Bus           Bus
Reduction factor (t) (f)              25     25         25       75      75      75       75       75       75         75        75      90      90|          90
Average speed. km/h (vl              i60     60         55       55      35      35       35       30       30         30        30      45      40           45               _
dl. factor                          1 5     1 5       1.5      1.5    1.4    1.4        1.5      1.5      1.5        1.5        1.5     1.5     1.5         1.5
running costs. c/kmn                5-4    7 1       11 6      9.7     14    14.4    18 8       22.2    22.9        28.6      67.6    16.2    13.3         19.5
time coss, c/km                     0.5    0.6       1l6       1.9    2.3      3.7      6.1      9.1      9.0        1.7      34.6     4.3     3.7          6.3
Total EconomiL Cost. c/km            59      77       13.2     11.6   12.7   18 1       250      31 3     320        39.4      102.3   20.4    17.0          25.7
cltonne/km                                           26.4     23.2    4.2      6.0      4.6      5.2      5.3        4.7       6.8 |       |        |
cpasscnger-lm 1n6                          21         13)    1.1                                                                   |   0.3     0.3          0.4
VERY BAD PAVED ROAD (R=75(X)  /km, IRI 9)
P pC         PC      LDY      LDV    LGV ! LGV    MGV           HGV |IGV          YMGY       YMGY       Bus    Bus           Bus
Reduction factor (o) (f)              25     25         25       75      75      75       75       75       75         75        75      90      90           90
Average speed. km/b (v)               45     45         45       45      30      30       30       25       25         25        25      35      30           35
dl factor                           1.7    1.7        1.7      1.7 | 1.6    1.6         18       1.8      1.8        1.8I      1.8     1.8      18          1.8
running costs, c/km                6.1    8.0        13.2     11.0   11.9|  16.5    22.6    267 |   27.5            34.4      81.2    19.4    16.0         23.3       jr
time costs, c/km                   0.7    0.8         1.9      2.3    2.7    4.3        7.2     10.9    10.8        12.9      41.6     5.5     5.0          8.1
Total Economic Costs. clkm           6.8    8.9       15.1     13.3   146    20.8    29.8    37.6    38.4            47 2      1228    24.8    20.9         31.4        |'
ctonne-km                     |         |            30.1     26.6    4.9    6.9        5.5      6.3      64         5 6       8 2 |
c/passenger-km                      18     24 |        4       13 |- |                             -                   -         -    04       03           0.5
Source: NTSR



VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis Results - North, Base Case With Land Costs
C_st Without Project          Cost With Project'                     Benefit Streams
(Mil. US$)                   (Mil. US$)                           (Mil. US$)
Year        Maintenance     Vehicle      Construction2    Vehicle      Construction     Vehicle     Net Cash Flow   Cumulative Net
Operation    Maintenance     Operation     Cost Savings    Operation                   Present Value
Cost Savings                   (Mit. US$1
(a)           lb)            (c)            (d)            (a-c)         Ib-d)
1994              0.302         50.702         31.196         50.702        -30.894          0.000        -30.894        -20.261
1995              0.353         63.144         14.449         63.144        -14.096          0.000        -14.096        -37.980
1996              0.402         77.685         14.449         35.327        -14.047        42.358         28.311         -16.710
1997              0.439         94.613          0.140         41.508          0.291         53.105        53.395         19.760
1998              0.491        114.600          0.151         48.970          0.341         65.630        65.970         60.722
1999              0.528        130,278          0.155         58.003          0.373        80.275         80.648        106.246
2000              0.573        166.845          0.159         68.900          0.414         97.945         98.358       156.719
2001              0.614        200.352          0.163         82.227          0.450        110.125        118.575       212.036
2002              0.666        241.962          0.172         98.392          0.494        143.570        144.064       273.133
2003              0.725        290.664          0.185        117.899          0.540        172.765        173.305       339.950
2004              0.765        345.234          0.205        142.454          0.561        202.780       203.341        411.219
2005              0.813        407.161          0.218        173.366          0.565        233.794        234.389       405.903
1  i  I             I              I              I              I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EIRR 77%
Main Analysis Variables Used:
Analysis Period (years) = 12; Discount Rate  10%;
Construction Start Year  1994;
Treatment/Opening Year  1995;
Contract Payment Schedule per year: 40%, 30%, 30%;
Government administration and supervision costs = 5% of construction cost;
Economic Cost Factor = 95%;
Average Traffic Growth Rate -= 15% p.a.
Souice: Mission estimates.
0^
Construction cost + government administration and supervision costs.
2 Includes land acquisition and resettlement costs of US$11.93 million.                                                               _



VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis Results - South, Base Case With Land Costs
Cost Without P-oject            Cost With Project'                       Benefit Streams
(Mil. US$)                     (Mil. US$)                              (Miu. US$)
Year      Maintenance       Vehicle      Construction2      Vehicle       Construction      Vehicle      Net Cash lRow    Cumulative
Operation     Maintenance      Operation      Cost Savings     Operation                      Net Present
Cost Savings                      Value
(Mit. us $I
lal            (b)             (c)             (dj            (a-c)           (b-di
1994             0.131          55.988         32-362          55.966          -32.231          0.000         -32.231         -29.946
1995             0.175          80.259           0.619          60.259          -4.144          0.000           -8.444        -21.852
1996            C0.229         102.011           0.619          38.689          -8.390         63.322          54.931          19.419
1997             Ci258         122.967           0.080         45-936           0-178          77.031          77.209          72.154
1998             C.283         145.543           0.081          54.800          0.202          90.743          90.945         128.624
1999             C.291         172.343           0.081          65.847           0.210        106.496         106.706         188.857
20C0             C.304         203.345           0.081          79.725           0.222        123.620         123.842         252.407
2001             C.321         241.105           0.093          97.578           0.228        143.527         143.755         319.470
2002             0.347         285.931           0.099         120.739           0.240        165.192         165.440         389.633
2003             0.356         337.837           0.112         151.291           0.244        186.345         186.789         461.648
2004             0.385         400.122           0.127         193.216           0.258        206.905         207.164         534.258
2005             0.402         472.968           0.139         252.327           0.263        220.641         220.904         604.645
I.I  I  EIRR 101%
Main Analysis Variables Used:
Analysis Prriod (years) = 12; Discount Rate = 10%; Construction Start Year = 1994;
Treatm--nt/Opening Year = 1995; Contract Payment Schedule per year: 40%, 30%, 30%;
Government administration and supervision costs = 5% of construction cost;
Economic Cost Factor = 95%; Average Traffic Growth Rate = 15% p.a.
ourt:e: Mission estimates.
_ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Construction cost + government administration and supervision costs.
2 Includes land acquisition and resettlement costs US$20.87 million.



VIEr NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Benefit Anaivsis for Ferrv Crossing
Myv Thisn
BENEFITS
COSTS
_________Car Time Savings                           Bus/Truck Tis. Savings
Year   Project    Constr.    Total No.   Total No.     ToWal   I  Time        Total        Total       Total       Time       Toal        Net       Pject Net    Ptoject
Cost       and        Cars       at Peak      (ars      Savings     No. Bus!      No. at    Bus/Truck    Savings    Savings     Hener       Benefit       Net
Rehab.                             Waiting                 Trucks       Peak       Waiting     @05.73                My lbuan    Can Tho      Benefit
Savings   _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ ___                 _ _ _   __ _ _ _ ___               _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _
1993                           374,954     224,972      56.243         0       776.559     465.935     11,48X-1
1994     1,630                 431,197     258,718      64,680         0       893,043     535,826     133,956                             -1,630      -i,630      -3,259
1995     1,255                 495,876     297.526      74,381         0      1,026.999    616,199     154,050                             -1,255      -1.255      -2,509
1996     1,755                 570.258     342,155      85,539       165      1,181.(49    708 629     177,157       1.015      1,180        -574        -578      -1,153   a
1997                   125     655,796     393,478      98,369        190     1,35X,2%     814.924     203,731       1 I,167    1,482       1,482       1.536       3,019  -
1998                  o50      754.166     452,500     113,125        218     1,561,937    937 162     234.291       1,342      2.061       2.061       2.194       4.254
1999                           867,291     520,374     130.094       251      1,796228   1,()77,737    269,434       1,544      1,795       1,795       2,032       3,827
2000                   125     997.384     598,431      149.608       289     2,065.662    1,239,397   309,849       1,775      2,189       2,189       2.564       4,753
2001                   500    1,146,992    688,195      172,049       332     2,375,511    1,425,307   356,327       2.042      2,874       2,874       3,426       6.300
2002                          1 ,319,041   791,424      197.856       382     2,731,838    1,639,103   4)9,776       2,348      2,730       2,730       3.512       6,242
2003                   125    1,516,897    910,138     227.535        439     3,141,613    1,884.968   471,242       2.700      3,264       3.264       4.339       7,603
2004                   500    1.744,431    1,046,659   261,665        505     3,612,R55   2,167,713    541,92X       3,105      4.110       4,100       5,557       9.667
2005                          2,006,096    1,203,658   300,914        581     4,154,784   2,492,870    623,218       3,571      4,152       4.152       6,068      10.220
2006                   625    2,307,011    1.384,206   346,052       668      4,778,001    2,866,801   716,700      4.107       5,400       5.400       7,907      13.306
10%
NPV=         9,563      12,853      22.417
EIRR        38%          42%        40%
la Assumed that without project there would stil be new femes purchased and rehabilitation.
Source: Mission estimates.
VN-1TI 9
'-D



VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Benefit Analysis for Ferry Crossings
Can Tho
BENEFITS
Year          COSTS
Car Time Savi_Rs                             Bus,Truck Time Savings
Project    Constr.    Total No.    Total No.    Total      Tint        Tolal        Total        Total      Te           Totl         Net
Cost       and         Cars       at Peak      Cars       Savings    No. Bus/      No. at    Bus/Tmuck    Savings      Savings      Benefit
Rehab.                             Waiting      @1.98       Trucks        Peak      Waiting      @5.73
.________  Savings/a                                                                 _
1993                             31,934     191,601      47,900          0      684,288      410,573     102.643
1994     1,630                  383,201     229,921      57,480          0       821,146     591,2,5     123,172                                -1,630
1995     1,255           _      459,892     275,905      68,976        160      985,375      709,470     147,806            _            _      -1,255
1996     1,755                  551,810     331,086      82,771        192     1,182,450     851,364     177,367       1,016        1,176        -578
1997                   125      662.172     397,303      99,326        230     1,418,940    1,021,6337    212,841      1,220        1,536       1,536
1998                   500      794,606     476,764     119,191        276     1,702,728                 255,409       1,463        2,194       2,194
________                     ___________  __________~~~~~ ~~ ~ 1.225,964      1_ _                                  _ _ _ _ _
1999                            953,527     572,116     143,029        331    2,043,273   1,471,157  _  C491           1,756        2.032      2.032
2000                   125    1,144.233     686,540      171,635       398     2,451,928    1,765,388    367,789       2,107        2.564       2.564
2001                   500    1,373,079     823,848     2C5,962        477     2,942,313    2.118,465    $41,347       2,529        3.426       3,426
2002                          1,647,695     988,617     217.154        687     3,530,776    2,542,159 _529,616         3.035        3.512       3,512
2003                   125    1,977,234    1.186,341    296,585        572     4,236,931    2,542,159    635,540       3,642        4,339       4,339
2004                   500    2,372,681    1,423,609    355,902        687     5,084,317    3,050,590    762,648       4,370        5.557       5.557
2005                          2.847,218    1,708,331    427,083        824     6,101,181    3.660,708    915,177       5,244        6.068       6,068
2006                   625    3,416,661    2.049,997    512,499        989     7,321,417    4,392,850   1,098,212      6,293        7,907       7,907
10% NPV=        12.853
EIRR        42%
/a Assumed that without project there would still be new ferries purchased and rehabilitation.
Source: Mission estimates.                                                                                                                                      t
VN-7ft-l1



VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Orqanizational Structure of the Ministry of Transport
[~~s           iirof  Transport               ]
Staff Departments and                     Line Departments & Specialized            Non-Productive Organs        '     Specialized Sector Businesses
Functional Organs                             Management Organs
Legislation Transport Dept               Department o  Roads l                              istue
_  Research Institutes                   Design Institutes
T  Cadre & Labor Organ. Dept.    l -                  i Dept. of Sea Navigation  l
Investment & Planning Dept.              Dept. of River Waterways   l
r--          l    r-----                            |    L__ Trai~~~~~~~~~~~ngn Schools             S peciatized Industry
finance & Accounting Dept.                                                                                              G XaDept. of Aviation  r   S   j  Seneral Corporations
Science & Ind. Arts Dept.                 Vietnam Fed. of Railways
I                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Commtodities & Transport
Uorks Construction
International Relations Dept.            Dept. of Commod. & Transport                                                 General Corporations
_                             ~~~~~~~~~Quatity Mgmnt. & Certific._
Inspection Section
inspection Section                       Dept. of Registration &
_Mgmnt. of Commod. & Transport
General Office                            Equipment & Means Quality
Source:   MOT, March 1993
VN.CHI



- 80 -
CHART 2
VIET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Orcranizational Structure of the Department of Roads
Minister of Transport
|  Highway 1A Project    |        -        |               Viet Namn                                Organs to Assist
Management Unit (PMUI)    . .                       Road Administration                             Department Head
(Offices, Sections)
Road Works
Management                 Road Management                          Non-Productive Units
Department                 Regions (RRMUs)                           (Training, Health)
Road Management
Subregions
Road Repair
Companies
CentraL Vehicle         |                  Vehicle Repair,                           Transportation
Transport Companies                        Engineering Shops                    F    Services Companies
Source: MOT, March 1993



- 81  -                                               CHART  3
WET NAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Oraanizational Structure of the Reaional
Road Maintenance Unit (RRMU) #2
Director General and
Deputy Directors General
Administration           Road Management         Production and                           Education, Research
and Staff              and Maintenance         Business Enterprises                         and Health
- Traffic Management       - Division 222            - Co. of Material & Const.                - Camp for Health Care
- Planning & Economic      - Division 224            - Transp. Mech. Enterprise               1- School for rransport
- Finance & Accounting    - Division 226             - Survey & Design Enterprise 2              Technicians
- Science & Technology    - Division 232               Transport Arch. & Enterprise 2
- Personal & Labor         - Division 234              Transport & Wood Enterprise 203
Administration           - Division 236             - Transport Const. & Material
- Project Management       - Division 238              Enterprise 2
---------_____ - Division 240          - CiviL Engineering Company 2
- Road Management Enterprise 208*
- Road Management Enterprise 210*
- Road Management Enterprise 228^
- Road Management Enterprise 230*
* RME's 208, 210, 228, and 230 split in mid-1992.
Source: Crippen Consultants, Assessment and Strengthening of Highway Maintenance Capabilities in Vietnam,
Decebter 1992



MAP SECTION



IBRO 23160
A \>> *  ffi  T A4\JJ W      Cam Pho
-21                                  t;                                                                                                                21,
;ocChou                  H_B            r      Ha Duong                H r
Ho    n                 Thc i BinNi                      G  u I f  o f  rO   k:  r
QuatiHoa    --  -                                     nk
LAO   *                    /
PEOPLE'S                                                        D Nqiklin, 
2F0OC )                             _,_C)                        '                                      VIET NAM                                   20
20 REPUBLIC  N2' X  ;X;                                         i--HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
, Thuoeml  uonah               o t
,/ -h rnguan                            Sam Son                                       PROJECT ROADS
(:;;                         <        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-  fiE*~~~~MAN ROAD
-                           \-* - lUURAILROADS
102~ Nghia Dan                                                                                                   RIVERS
\                          '                   / N                                                     -   -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
\/ 0  - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_19          ,#8!                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19tJ
,es op h,o, b<n p-e, -n 
oyrl Wd  oh. ooff                Do Lueng                                                              25      50      75      100 KILOMETERS
XCI4lIYfOOth onvmeo,    v  Luon           \\.                                                  .        
o -od-ri od is ir thr.
mt0-0al uo of Th. Word bo-k
G,o.p Th. udom-not,ns u C                       Vinh ,
and the br nd.6., show
on th,, mop do not -mply, o th0 P
Io of 'hWo"dd fn  tQ
ony~~~~0 angymo teleo 
ItWlul d1 ony F.rl?oy or onz_ y
-ndorl.mnF or o-.pson.- of
,<  boQndor.s                lf05                   ooo0          0              -}?.ie 
105,           ~~~To Do Name   *'6.                           1070
-11                         1d50   -                       --                       1-   I0o                                           Bien F o 
Vinh Hung                                                           4/
CAMBODIA                                     Hong Ngu                                                    Ho Chi Minh City'
C t   Doc    /\.\/
Tom A.
v '~      Are.o(o~cp\                                                       V~nh                  TyTgo                  -        t  Vun  T7ano      ]
-VA                .// CHINALoguo ;.......................... ~. GoCong Dong
>          Arec, of map                                                  Yi/  \   Rn   ;o Bn Tre..
'( LAO       G,>       ,>.Xoi                                        2 w.          }                    \            ,
7  PEOPLES~ (. .\
/Vientianef         -                                               Can T\                              T  V0
-.    rJ     ~\VJIET NtAM                                                                     -         o 
THAILAND                    OD.                                                                        Tr Vinh 
CAMBODIA
Phnom Pen h   , -"                                                                 Soc Troan\                                         e
Chi Minh
GU!t of rho {cnS  A                                       /                                   0            25            50
o                       ;i A .d mp  ,,.I06,                                                                                    KILOMETERS
APRIL 1993



CHINAA--
\_~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >                                           _, I0A')N
L A O    P E O P L E S   9    S  . d/Ni,.h h,* ~    ~        A 
DEMOCRATIC  '                                                  VIET NAM                 201
X   5              .:: 1 e S~~~~~~~~~~~~StT CE MAIN   TRNS  OWNS
e--41 S9\                                                 -- -  R A
15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
CAMBODIA ~      ~        ~ ~ VETNA
HAILAND         TRA NPORT
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EE C" AM M  OD  Ai
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTOA CAPffA  e  
It. - A., A...  ~   W.ddUI  ~.0...A.k.                      o         50 h00                00 , A,.
-~~~~ ~ ~ ~ A.w h.Jy                      Cno.~  TO. ATO  AA.A 0.A                                  .       .:II
05                                                        110'~~~~~~~~~ "UAIO1 AOT
/   {  g      X    y       ' V"rslan~~~~~~~~~~MT
Icr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IT111TOA BOUNDARIES \ 
THAILAND~~
SPocliz~~~~~~~c~N
4o L       ~                          0    II     S      e0 2ChlVEH
I 5sw-seo                                                                                                             15t~s~~i'=v    iO19IDSv
Co~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,,F                                20    2rRMTR
_~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          100u+yt-- ~ I5        __    :Do! s



