Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23840
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25490)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 112.2 MILLION
(US$158.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
FOR A
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 26, 2002
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective: December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Dong
US$ 1.00 =  15,078
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st  December 31st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DANIDA           Danish International Development Agency
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
GoV              Government of Vietnam
HSDC             Hanoi South Development Corridor
HRP              Highway Rehabilitation Project
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
JBIC             Japan Bank for International Cooperation
MOT              Ministry of Transport
PAP              Project Affected Persons
PMU1             Projects Management Unit No. 1
SOE              State-owned Enterprise
QAG              Qualilty Assurance Group
QEA              Quality at Entry Assessment
SDR              Special Drawing Rights
TA               Technical Assistance
VND              Vietnamese Dong
VRA              Vietnam Railway Authority
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:  Andrew D. Steer
Sector Director:  Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader:   Alain Labeau



VIETNAM
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                  12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                         26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              41






Project ID: P004832                                        Project Name: HIGHWAY REHAB
Team Leader: Alain L. Labeau                               TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date- June 26, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HIGHWAY REHAB                                   L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25490
Country/Department: VIETNAM                                               Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways; TP - Ports & Waterways; TW -
Railways; TY - Other Transportation; WY - Other
Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/31/1990                              Effective: 01/31/1994          06/13/1994
Appraisal:  03/28/1991                                 MTR.                       01/20/1998
Approval:   10/26/1993                              Closing:  12/31/1999          12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  Socialist Republic of Viet Nam/Ministry of Transport
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:      Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:       Jitendra Bajpai                           Jeffrey Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:   Alain Labeau                              Gerhard Menckhoff
ICR Primary Author:   Jerry Lebo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unhkely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective
3.1.1  According to the Staff Appraisal Report dated October 4, 1993, the objectives of the Highway
Rehabilitation Project (HRP) were to: (a) raise overall economic efficiency and support economic recovery
by upgrading critical segments of the highway network; (b) transfer modem road technology to relevant
agencies through technical assistance and training; (c) strengthen highway maintenance capacity by
providing technical assistance (TA) and equipment; and (d) lay the groundwork for a longer terrn
collaboration between Vietnam and IDA in the transport sector.
3.1.2  The project was the first transport project financed by the Bank in Vietnam, and therefore
purposely focused on a program to build capacity at all levels of the road sector, as well as a concurrent set
of physical objectives of very high priority . The project objectives were, while modest, realistic and
mutually reinforcing. Since nearly all aspects of Bank requirements for project management and
implementation were new to the project team--the project objectives had a "learning-by-doing" approach
implicit to the execution. Key to this approach were the transfer of modem technology to relevant agencies
through the technical assistance and training.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1  The project objectives did not change during implementation.
3.3 Original Components.
3.3.1  The project consisted of the following components: (a) civil works involving the rehabilitation of
two sections of the country's main road (Highway IA) from Hanoi south to Vinh (279km) and from Ho Chi
Minh City south to Can Tho (151 km), and associated resettlement of households and businesses; (b) new
ferries and rehabilitation of existing ones, as well as improved ferry operations at the two river crossings of
My Thuan and Can Tho in the Mekong Delta; (c) maintenance equipment for the RRMUs and equipment
for the design and quality control of road construction and maintenance; (d) institutional
strengthening/reform and transfer of technology components that include technical assistance and training
for the RRMUs and training for highway personnel; and (e) studies to improve the sector and to select and
prepare future road investment programs.
3.4 Revised Components
3.4.1  No new project components were added. However, early during project implementation the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) approached the GOV and offered to finance item (b) of the
original project components--namely, the improvement to ferry services at My Thuan and Can Tho. The
made available project funds (approximately US$ 8.5 million), which--along with expected cost savings
from the bidding of the three major rehabilitation contracts--the Bank agreed could be utilized for additional
civil works under category (a) of the project (road rehabilitation). These funds were subsequently used to
finance a greenfield road bypass (four-lane controlled access highway) along the section of Highway No. I
beginning in the southern outskirts of Hanoi (Hanoi-Caugie). Although this was not road rehabilitation, the
justification for including these additional works under the project were that: (a) the expected traffic levels
along the rehabilitated sections of Highway No. I already financed under the project would likely very soon
reach their capacity and severe traffic congestion would result, and; (ii) upgrading the existing road to four
lanes along the current alignment would have resulted in excessive levels of resettlement and high land
acquisition costs. After extensive feasibility study work, the Bank agreed to expand the civil works
-2 -



component of the project to include the Hanoi-Caugie bypass, also referred to as the Hanoi South
Development Corridor (HSDC). The project also financed the associated detailed design studies, over and
underpasses, required road furniture, and other implementation costs.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  At the time of project effectiveness, the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist, and
therefore no formal process for reviewing project Quality at Entry (QEA) was available to the project team.
The ICR assessment of the project's Quality at Entry is satisfactory.
3.5.2  The project was slow to become effective and implementation slow to start. In retrospect, many of
the underlying problems could have been avoided at entry with a more pragmatic assessment of the
capacity of local agencies for project implementation, especially with respect to managing land acquisition
and resettlement and modem international procurement practices--as well as a better assessment of the
impact for projects execution where the decision-making process was clearly still heavily bureaucratic.
Thus, while the project appraisal successfully identified key sector and capacity constraints, and the project
was well-aligned with Bank and Government of Vietnam (GoV) priorities, the design of the project did not
sufficiently allow for project implementation where the supporting country legal framework (e.g., for land
acquisition and resettlement) was not well-developed and experience with intemational procurement
practices did not exist. In addition, at the time of appraisal, there was a substantial lack of market data on
which to base project costs estimates and uncertainty about the availability of counterpart funds--but no
innovative design solutions were sought. As a result, early supervision costs were very high. Also,
disbursements over the first years of the project were slow and project implementation difficult, with
capacity built only very slowly. Overall, however, given that this was the first transport project financed
by the Bank in Vietnam--and there was no experience or lessons on which to build project design--quality
at entry is deemed satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
4.1.1  Overall Assessment.   The project outcomes and achievement of objectives are assessed as
satisfactory. There were some delays in project implementation, but these were not excessive, and largely
due to the implementing agencies unfamiliarity with Bank policies and procedures. There were also delays
with the implementation of project technical assistance activities. These were due to the overly
bureaucratic decision-making and clearance processes, as well as some reservations by the GoV as to the
content of such assistance. These delays, however, did not excessively impact the effectiveness of these
activities (although the scope of some activities had to be reduced to accommodate time constraints).
Overall, therefore, the project substantially achieved its development objectives within budget, including the
extension of the period of implementation to accommodate additional project civil works related to the
construction of the HSDC by-pass.
4.1.2  Civil Works.  The rehabilitated sections of Highway No. 1 and HSDC were opened to traffic in
September 1999 and December 2001, respectively. These investments were successful, in that they have
succeeded in reducing transport costs, congestion, and shortening travel times along critical segments of the
national highway network. Road traffic has risen less quickly on project roads than was expected at
appraisal, which has lowered the return to investment. The overall rate of return on the three sections of
Highway No. I rehabilitated under the project has been re-estimated at 38%--which is significantly lower
than the appraisal estimate of 89%, but still shows a high return to these investments (see section 4.3).
-3 -



Subsequent benefits of the project are deemed sustainable, but will require that adequate road maintenance
is undertaken on project sections. To ensure project benefits remain in place, effort should also be made to
ensure that the increasing rate of traffic accidents on national highways, including project roads, is curbed.
4.1.3  Institutional development. Project activities related to institutional development were
substantially completed and, for the most part, achieved the desired impact. Management training
(including overseas training and study tours) have provided new concepts which have been adapted to the
requirements of Vietnam. Specialized training on procurement and resettlement assisted the PMU to build
capacity and improved implementation performance. Equipment provided has allowed road agencies to
increase their capacity to plan and execute road maintenance activities, as well as modernize their
approaches to delivery. Training in the use of modern equipment has also helped ensure that the new roads
will be adequately monitored and, in principle, maintained. Although, there is still the need for additional
institutional development efforts. Training for Regional Road Management Units (RRMUs) included
planning and investment prioritization and developing quality control procedures for construction and
maintenance; and for MOT/VRA - transport planning, engineering standards for roads and bridges and
road safety. Details on each of the elements of these items are provided below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Overall Assessment. All project components were successfully delivered as planned. In addition,
costs savings under the project allowed for additions to safety-related civil works ("blackspot") program
implemented under the project, as well as the aforementioned additional civil work related to HSDC. A
brief overview of the outputs from each item is given here.
Civil Works
4.2.2  Highway No. I was in poor condition when the project was identified in 1990, with varying cross
sectional geometries, uneven and broken pavement and potholed shoulders which became accident-prone
during rainy weather. By the time road work started in 1996 there had been substantial further
deterioration. The implementation schedule prepared by the appraisal team took into account possible
implementation delays due to MOT's inexperience with IDA's bidding, disbursement and audit procedures
and resettlement issues - which indeed turned out to be the case. Still, project work as originally defined in
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were started on time and successfully completed in 1999 as planned. The
addition of HSDC required that the Credit Closing Date be extended by two years. The works on HSDC
were completed only at the very end of the project, in December 2001. It is clear, however, that these
works are already of great benefit to easing traffic congestion south of Hanoi in a rapidly growing area.
4.2.3  Because of the lack of data on market prices and international bidding rates in Vietnam, as well as
the fact that project works were only appraised up to the level of preliminary engineering, the Bank
proposed a lump-sum of US$96.95 million for civil works, including rehabilitation of roads, blackspot
improvements and (the later DANIDA financed) access roads to ferry crossings. During the bidding of
these works, competition among contractors produced bids well-below appraisal estimates. Road works
were divided into three contracts, which all commenced in March 1996. The final costs for the three road
contracts was US$78.62 million, slightly higher than initial bid prices. In retrospect, such cost increases
could have been expected given the "design and construct" approach adopted for bidding of these contracts.
That is, the initial contracts were signed on the basis of preliminary engineering (to speed up project
preparation), with the contractor to undertake detailed design during implementation under oversight of the
supervising engineer. Design review and subsequent detailed designs, as expected, generated substantial
changes over preliminary engineering in order to deal with local conditions. Typical redesign elements
- 4 -



included the addition of drainage, improvements to the road structure, and strategic widening in densely
populated sections.
4.2.4  During implementation several work items associated with rehabilitation along Highway No. 1
were changed, including: (i) addition of the (1 09m -one way) Doc Xay Tunnel; (ii) six out of seven
proposed new bridges were strenghtened, rather than replaced; (iii) construction of drainage systems and
pavement widening in three cities and construction of a bridge at Khe Son, were added, and; (iv) widening
of drainage systems and pavement widening in two cities was added.
4.2.5  Two of the civil works contracts (Hanoi-Vinh) experienced only minor delays. The third contract
(HCMC-Can Tho) was delayed seven months, due to slow resettlement and handover to the contractors, as
well as late issuance of the necessary permits by local authorities. In late 1996, DANIDA offered to fund
the Ferries (civil works and equipment) component originally appraised under the project, thus releasing
US$8.5 million in project funds. This, together with the projected savings on the road contracts, provided a
substantial amount of project cost savings which the GoV proposed be used for construction of by-pass
roads on congested portions of Highway No. 1 in densely populated urban areas. After extensive feasibility
work, an agreement was reached between IDA and GoV to use these funds (along with additional resources
from GOV and JBIC) to finance a single greenfield by-pass of approximately 30 kms in the section south
of Hanoi. Cost constraints required civil works to be divided into two sections, with IDA and GoV
financing approximately 17 kms of the proposed bypass. The remaining approximately 13 kms were
financed by JBIC and GoV under a separate contract and irnplemented in parallel.
4.2.6 The project financed portion of HSDC civil works were divided into two contracts bid under ICB
arrangements. Late issuance of the construction authorization by the municipality, combined with a request
to shift the alignment into a soft soil area generated substantial start up delays. In addition, this was
aggravated by delays in resettlement, which plagued these works throughout their implementation. As a
result, commencement was delayed until September 1998. Due to a large number of variation orders, and
continuing resettlement issues, works were not completed until December 2001-and even then some minor
works were completed after the closing of the loan (paid by GoV). The final cost for the project contracts
was some 55% above initial estimate, with the final costs for the two contracts US$30.97 million. The
main reason for these additional costs were related to the geo-technical requirements of the final alignment,
which was in a soft soil area, and the addition of two fly-overs, underpasses, and a local access road to the
project.
4.2.7  A small portion of additional cost savings under the project were used for additional blackspot
improvements which were awarded to national contractors through National Shopping. The final costs for
blackspot improvements was US$2.8 Imillion.
4.2.8 The total final costs for all civil works was US$112.4 million, of which IDA financed 87%
(US$97.78 million).
4.2.9 As mentioned previously, the project component covering new ferries and rehabilitation of existing
services was dropped from the IDA finance package. The component was implemented by DANIDA and
was successful in improving operations at the Mekong crossings at My Thuan and Can Tho. The SAR
cost estimate for this component was US$8.5 million (excluding contigencies). While no completion report
was available to the project team for these investments, it is estimated by the implementing agency that the
final cost for this component was approximately US$16.01 million--with the GOV portion of $1.1 million.
-5 -



Goods and Equipment
4.2.10 To achieve project objectives, the Credit funded equipment which was provided to the following
implementing agency and MOT. Because the requirements were not yet known at appraisal, IDA proposed
a lump-sum allocation for this component in a total amount of US$ 12.11. The final cost estimate for this
category was US$10.32 million and can be summarized as follows:
Equipment for Project Management Unit (PMU1): comprising, vehicles, office equipment, computers,
communication equipment and video systems (S0.25 million);
* Equipment for Vietnam Road Administration (VRA) and the Regional Road Maintenance Units
(RRMU): comprising, highway maintenance equipment, road and bridge inspection equipment and
motorized vehicles (US$9.45 million);
*  TA and Technology Transfer to the RRMUs: comprising, computers, road survey and bridge
inspection equipment, road survey vehicles and training equipment and materials (US$0.16 million);
* Road Safety Study: comprising mainly: traffic safety equipment, computers, audio-video systems,
textbooks/guidelines and Pilot road safety materials production, highway patrol cars and patrol
motorcycles (US$0.65 million). The equipment was supplied to VRA, Traffic Police, and National
Traffic Safety Committee.
4.2.11 At the time of project close, it appeared that all equipment was being used by the relevant agencies
ar.d contributed to the success of the project. The sustainability of this use will depend on proper
maintenance and continued use for its prescnbed function. The equipment related to highway maintenance
is being used to regularly monitor the condition of some national highways. PMU1 continues to use
equipment procured under the project to execute its responsibilities. These equipment and goods are
therefore deemed to have successfully contributed to the achievement of project objectives.
Institutional strengthening/reform and transfer of technology
4.2.12 The project provided for two fonns of support under this component, implementation support and
technical assistance related to institutional development. The former comprised construction supervision
and detail engineering services, as well as advisory and contract management services. The latter focused
on key areas of study and training to assist the GoV to address key sector issues. Because the optimal
sub-allocation within these activities was not known at the time of appraisal, these were divided into two
lump sum allocation of US$15.44 million and US$7.2 million, respectively. The final costs for these
activities was US$17.8 million, significantly below the appraisal estimate. The main reason was a
reduction in the costs and scope of the technical assistance related to institutional development. A brief
overview of each activity is provided below.
Implementation Support. (Actual Cost: US$14.64 million)
4.2.13 Supervision of Civil Works. Hiehwav No. 1 (US$10.68 million): The main component of
implementation support was the supervision of thrce civil works contract related to improvements on
Highway No 1. and two contracts for construction of the HSCD by-pass. The costs for project supervision
amounted to approximately US$10.68 million. The civil works contracts for Highway No 1. were issued
on basis of "design and construct"--which increased the costs for supervision of works. In addition, the
contractor based his design on insufficient geotechnical investigations and did not follow through with soil
improvements where required, thus requiring the supervision consultants to redesign entire sections, which
further raised the costs of these services.
-6 -



4.2.15 Supervision of HSDC (US$2.57 million): The HSDC by-pass was designed and constructed to
avoid the considerable resettlement which the widening of the existing alignment south of Hanoi would have
required. Following IDA's request, MOT/ PMI1 selected consultants to prepare the economic feasibility,
detailed design and tender documents for the HSDC. The same supervising consultants for the supervision
service along Highway No. I were also selected for this assignment (US$690,258) and for the follow-up
construction supervision (US$1.88 million). The selection process was approved by IDA. On the job
training by the expatriate engineers provided significant means of technology transfer and contributed to
the control of construction quality.
4.2.16 Advisory and Contract Management Services (US$1.8 million): An international consultant was
employed between January 1995 and April 2000 to support and advise the implementing agency on project
delivery and contract management. The services provided effective assistance to PMUI in all technical and
financial management aspects, including computerized contract administration, accounting, progress
monitoring and reporting, as well as workshops on contract management and procurement.
Institutional Development (Actual Cost: US$3.16 million)
4.2.17 There were substantial costs savings under this component (approximately 50%), given the US$7.2
million appraisal estimate. This was due to the relatively high estimate at appraisal (due to the lack of
market data) and competition among firms for technical assistance contracts. There were four areas of
sub-activities under this component, each is briefly described here.
4.2.18 Technical Assistance & Transfer of Technology to RRMUs (US$1.86 million); The contract was
awarded in 1997 and completed in 2001, and implemented in three phases: (i) Phase I provided for a
review of existing conditions and provided technology transfer/training for MOT staff related to road
network technical and financial management aspects, including: maintenance, pavement design, bridge
maintenance and traffic safety; (ii) Phases 2 and 3 focused on selection, installation and training in the use
of computerized road and bridge management software at the RRMU level (RoSy and BridgeMan).
4.2.19 Development of Roads and Bridges Standards (US$0.70 million); The contract started in 1999
and completed in June 2000. The main effort was two pronged. First, a review and an assessment of
current road and bridge standards. Second, preparation of road and bridge standards by adapting
AASHTO standards and specifications to reflect local conditions; including specification for: a) design of
flexible pavements; b) bridge design; c) road design; and d) construction. The outputs from this study were
deemed very successful, with the first three items having been accepted by MOT and issued for nationwide
application. The last item "Construction Specifications" was deemed to be less than what was required and
MOT decided that further work will be required to improve upon this work.
4.2.20 Vietnam Road Safety Improvement Study (US$0.60 million); The contract for this work began in
1997 and was completed in March 2000: The objective was to review and assess the existing Vietnamese
road safety situation; and prepare manuals and training of staff through pilot projects on road safety
including: blackspot identification and their improvement; traffic law enforcement, preparation of accident
database. This program was deemed highly successful, and the manuals developed are in use by MOT.
However, the proposed modernization of the accident data base and sharing of information between
enforcement authorities and MOT was not successful, primarily because of tight security arrangements
surrounding safety enforcement information in Vietnam--including traffic accident reports.
4.2.21 Retraining of Road Sector Professionals (US$1.84 million) This program started in 2001 and
-7 -



completed in December 2001 and was divided into two phases. The first phase involved preparation of
training materials by expatriate experts that were then translated into Vietnamese. The second phase
included delivery of pilot courses by expatriates, followed by courses delivered by trained local experts.
Trainees under the program came from GOV departments including VRA and its sub-agencies,
construction corporations, and engineering consultant companies. Due to protracted discussions on the
content of the training program to make sure in responds to to specific Vietnamese needs, the program
started late in the project implementation. This delay was further aggravated by slow internal MOT
procedures and government clearances, and only 15 courses could be held prior to project closing. The
reduced program, however, reached its objectives and is being followed under a subsequent IDA project
which will use the developed course material to expand the coverage of training.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  At appraisal, an economic evaluation was conducted for each road segment to be constructed, with
the corresponding EIRRs varying from 20% to over 100%--and a weighted composite economic internal
rate of return (EIRR) for the overall highway component calculated to be 89%. The HSDC component
was added later to the project and was therefore not included in the appraisal economic evaluation. At
completion, an economic evaluation was undertaken for the highway component following as closely as
possible the original appraisal procedures and using the most recent data concerning vehicle operating costs
(VOCs). On that basis, the re-estimated EIRR for each road segment was calculated to vary between 25%
to 58%, with an overall weighted EIRR for the highway component re-estimated to be 38% (see annex 3).
The main reasons for reduced economic internal rate of return at completion, were higher than expected
per-kilometer costs, lower traffic growth, and higher road roughness (which increases vehicle operating
costs) than expected at appraisal. Of these, lower than expected traffic growth is the primary factor
leading to a lower than expected EIRR at completion (see 4.3.3).
4.3.2  Total investment costs for the rehabilitated sections of Highway No. I increased from an estimate
of US$109.9 million to US$113.6 million, including the costs of construction, design and supervision,
black spot improvements, resettlement and land acquisition for each of the three sections of road
rehabilitated (i.e. Hanoi to Doc Xai, Doc Xai to Vinh and Ho Chi Minh City to Can Tho). The main
reason for the increase in unit costs under the civil works program resulted from the need to substantially
improve the road structure, which had been under-designed by the contractor. This led to higher than
expected supervision (re-design) and construction costs (variation orders), which outweighed the project
costs savings at the time of bidding. Costs also rose slightly due to minor additions to the blackspot
improvement program. For the re-estimation of the EIRR, routine (annual) and periodic maintenance (after
five years) costs were estimated at US$2000/km and US$5000/km, respectively.
4.3.3  In addition to higher than expected per-kilometer construction costs, there has been lower than
expected traffic growth on project roads, with daily traffic increasing between 70% and 120% along the
rehabilitated sections of highway between 1996 and 2001 . While these rates of growth are large, they
have not quite matched the 15% average annual growth rates that were expected over the 12 year analysis
period assumed at appraisal--and instead reflect a more modest 10% per annum. In retrospect, appraisal
estimates of average traffic growth of 15% per annum were probably unnecessarily optimistic. It is
extremely rare (even in rapidly growing economies) to observe road traffic growing at 15% over more than
a several year period.
4.3.4  For purposes of economic evaluation, average road roughness on project roads was estimated using
Intemational Road Index (IRI) measures, which is an accepted intemational standard for comparison of
road quality. Lowered IRI measures translate directly into project benefits through a reduction in vehicle
- 8 -



operating costs where roads have been improved. For project roads, mechanical condition surveys were
undertaken shortly after completion of civil works (1999-2000), which demonstrated actual road roughness
to be in the range of 2.5-4.0 IRI. This contrasts with the target of 2.5 IRR for all project roads. The actual
road roughness at the time of ICR was assumed to be 4.0 IRR--based on the above observations and visual
inspections of recent supervision mission. The main reason that the average target of 2.5 IRR target was
not met is related to lower than expected quality of construction.
4.4 Financial rate of return
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development irnpact:
4.5.1  While the overall institutional development impact of the project is rated as modest, the project
positively impacted institutional development. As described above, the two primary components aimed at
promoting institutional development were (a) institutional strengthening/reform and transfer of technology,
and; (b) studies to improve the sector and to select and prepare future road investment program. The main
benefit of these investments has been an increase in the awareness among sector professionals as to
international experience in road management and engineering, contracting, and environmental and social
management. Capacity in PMUI was greatly increased due to hands-on-learning during project
implementation, particularly in the areas of application of IDA procedures, language, and computer skills
and use of international business documentation. The training provided under the project, frequent
supervision missions, and use of local staff for project monitoring helped the PMUI to build skills in
project supervision, contract management, and training. Sector training efforts have had a positive impact
on the capacity and qualifications of national contractors--although much still needs to be done in this area.
The particular project objective to "lay the groundwork for a longer term collaboration between Viet Nam
and IDA in the transport sector" has wholly been achieved--with a substantial dialogue created under the
project on key areas of technical and institutional reform--and the fourth in a series of IDA-financed
highway projects is currently under preparation.
4.5.2  Technology transfer under the project is also deemed successful. A large numnber of local
professional staff have been trained through domestic studies, training activities under the project, and
some overseas study tours for higher management of MOT. Local engineers, jointly with foreign experts
have been involved in the supervision of civil works and have thus gained skills in various aspects of
project oversight, quality control, and supervision of larger civil works packages. The use of local
sub-contractors has helped to raise the quality of the national contractors working as sub-contractors and
enabled the transfer of know-how. Experience with international bidding procedures was substantially
enhanced.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
5.1.1  The regional financial crisis of late 1990s had a negative impact on the project, with GDP growth
in 1999 falling to its lowest growth rate in a decade. The slowdown in economic growth reduced the
resources available for transport investments in general, and maintenance, in particular, and slowed traffic
growth.
5.1.2  The performance of contractors under the project varied from acceptable to poor. Supplier
performance was also unpredictable, resulting in problems to obtain key project inputs, such as spare parts
and bitumen.
-9-



5.1.3  Inordinate delay of responsible authorities in the approval process for contract approval, permits,
and land acquisition and resettlement formalities.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  Slow progress due to poor management of resettlement activities was an on-going issue throughout
the project and caused serious delays at many points during the project, including an initial delay in
effectiveness of the loan due to lack of attention to Bank requirements. Early in implementation, the Bank
initiated an independent audit of resettlement activities, which demonstrated senous problems of funding of
payments and internal control, especially by provincial authorities, and the project was again delayed as
these problems were resolved. A key resettlement problem was the use of cash for compensation for PAPs,
whuch the GoV saw as the most effective and timely way to resettle PAPs. This caused a serious issue at
project close, as these expenditures are ineligible under the credit. As a result, a substantial amount of
funds that were already disbursed by the implementing agency for these expenses are required to be
refunded to IDA. The Association estimated at project close the total amount of ineligible expenditures still
outstanding were approximately 109 billion VND (US$7.2 million). At the writing of this report, this
amount was still outstanding.
5.2.2  Other observed impacts of poor management of resettlement activities include:
*   late handing-over of sites by the Employer, resulting in rescheduling of works and contracting
delays, especially on HSDC (which was delayed by almost two years);
*   in some areas the residents were not satisfied with the resettlement compensation or alleged not to
have received the agreed compensation and at times physically stopped the work or even damaged
equipment, and;
*   failure of MOT to make timely payments to PAPs, and ensure cooperation with the contractors.
5.2.3  The TA and training components generally started late due to prolonged discussions within MOT
on the content, scope, and budget for these components, as well as delays due to government and MOT
internal approvals. However, all TA and training components were completed--althought some under
reduced scope due to time constraints.
5.2.4  Contractors had great difficulty receiving import licenses for their equipment. Further, provincial
authorities required contractors to obtain construction permits to commence work, and have to license their
equipment to use the roadway. All these difficulties could have been alleviated if the specific regulations
were mentioned in the tender documents that could allow contractors to make suitablc arrangements.
PMUl's efforts to expedite these delays were not successful.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 To save time and cost, the three contracts for the rehabilitation of Highway No. 1 were issued as
"design and construct" which were based on general preliminary design and general specifications. Under
this scenario, the contractors were responsible for all soil investigations, evaluation of results, detailed
design and improving soil conditions. The incentive therefore was to reduce costs by reducing the amount
of geotechnical investigations and the soil improvements. This approach, while expedient, proved to
inefficient in terms of supervision and quality control. Early in the project, PMUI had difficulty assessing
the activities of the contractors and evaluating the judgment of the supervising consultant. This led to cases
where the supervising consultant approved procedures and work activities that should have been corrected
- 10-



by the employer.
5.3.2  Large contract variation orders were common under the project, which could be expected given the
level of engineering at which the contracts were tendered. However, the number and size of variation
orders put an extreme burden on those responsible for supervision of works. It was very difficult to control
costs and ensure quality with a shortage of staff, and, in hindsight, the bidding of civil works on the basis
of preliminary engineering should have been avoided.
5.3.3  Environmental performance under the project was weak, especially in the area of work site safety,
general site and traffic management and disposal of waste materials, and operational activities, such as
asphalt production. The ability of the implementing agency (and MOT) to manage environmental aspects
of road construction and enforce related clause of contracts remained low throughout the project. While
procedures for Environmental Assessments of road investments were introduced into Vietnamese law
during the period of project implementation. In practice, there is still a limited capacity within MOT to
manage the environmental aspects during project implementation--effort is mostly concentrated on initial
environmental reviews and clearances.
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1  At appraisal the total project cost was estimated at US$176.0 million, of which US$158.5 million
were to be funded by the IDA Credit. The total actual cost of the project, including the ferries component
financed by DANIDA, is now estimated at US$186.67 million of which IDA's share is US$145.29 million
- a project savings of US$13.21 million. Some project funds were reallocated to additional investments,
however, a large portion of remaining funds will be cancelled. A final figure for the amount of cancellation
expected under the project was not available at the time of this report, pending final reconcilitation of
accounts based on the refund of ineligible expenditures (see 5.2.1).
5.4.2 The civil works for the Road Rehabilitation was a lump-sum estimated at appraisal at US$96.95
million; the final estimated cost is US$112.40 million, an increase of 16%, which includes: three civil
works contracts along sections of Highway No. 1 (US$78.62 million) and two contracts covering the
construction along HSDC (US$30.97 million). In addition, there were 80 Blackspot improvements
(US$2.81 million). Note: the cost of the HSDC and most of the Blackspot improvements were not part of
the appraised IDA project. The cancellation of the Ferry Crossings estimated at US$8.5 million at
appraisal - to be financed by DANIDA - made funds available for the HSDC and the Blackspot
improvements. A brief summary of costs by item would include:
*  Equipment was a lump-sum estimated at appraisal at US$12.11 million; the estimated final cost is now
US$10.32 million (an underrun of 17 percent).
*  Implementation Support was allocated as lump-sum amount estimated at appraisal to require
US$15.44 million. Final costs is estimated to be US$14.64 million (an underrun of five percent);
*  Institutional Development was lump-sum estimated at appraisal at US$7.20 million; the estimated final
cost is now US$3.16 million (an underrun of 56 percent).
*  The Training Program was lump-sum estimated at appraisal at US$2.36 million; the estimated final
cost is now US$1.84 million (an underrun of 28 percent);
*  The Resettlement and Land Acquisition program was lump-sum estimated at appraisal at US$32.80
million; the estimated final cost is now US$28.30 million, (an underrun of 16 percent).
5.4.3  All components and expenditure categories of the project were under run, except for civil
works/road rehabilitation.



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The overall assessment of sustainability of project investments is likely. All levels of GoV are
strongly committed to the well functioning and maintenance of Highway No. 1, which is a key economic
lifeline of the country. Ministry of Transport staff have been trained by intemational experts under the
project and have acquired adequate equipment to plan and manage the maintenance of the highway and its
traffic safety, and are well aware of the importance of road and bridge maintenance and traffic safety.
Physical sustainability of the project depends on adequate annual budget allocations for maintenance of
roads, bridges, and equipment. Routine maintenance is being performed on project sections as part of
regular maintenance activities of the national highway system and is adequately funded. Periodic
maintenance, on the other hand, has been systematically under funded in Vietnam in the past--but the need
for periodic maintenance on the project roads is still several or more years away. There is a substantial
dialogue under the ongoing project portfolio and pipeline to address such maintenance issues. The issue of
periodic maintenance is the focus of the proposed IDA financed Road Network Improvement Project, which
is under preparation. It is expected therefore that, at least for national highways, adequate maintenance is
likely.
6.1.2  The institutional development objectives of the project are also deemed of likely sustainability.
This assessment is based on two factors: (i) the adoption of many of the outputs from technical assistance
under the project into mainstream MOT activities, such as road and bridge standards, management
practices, training materials, etc, and; (ii) continued follow-up of key institutional development activities
under ongoing IDA/ODA programs. On the latter point, both the follow-on IDA assistance to the sector
(Second Highway Rehabilitation Project and Mekong Transport and Flood Protection Project), as well as
that of other donors, have built on activities began under this project.
6.1.3  Capacity building efforts aimed at PMU1 are also sustainable. This implementing agency
continues to serve as a lead implementing agency for major highway projects in Vietnam, including two
IDA projects.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  All civil works financed under the project have been opened to traffic. Works on Highway No. I
are now beyond the one-year Defect Liability Penod (DLP) and have been taken over by VRA.
6.2.2 The VRA is responsible for the day-to-day operation, maintenance and development of the country's
roads and bridges, including the setting up of the toll collection system. VRA staff were trained under the
project, and it is expected that the operation of the system will proceed successfully. The main performance
measurements of the project benefits are increased traffic volumes, reduction of accident rates, and annual
expenditures on routine and specific maintenance. These have largely been met--except for reduced traffic
accidents, which continue to grow at high rates throughout the road network.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
- 12-



7.1.1  Bank performance with respect to lending was satisfactory. The Bank was responsive to the GoV
requests to prepare and appraise the project which was first identified in 1990 and appraised in 1991. The
project was re-appraised in 1993, due to the need to undertake more substantial preparation work to ensure
project readiness. It is difficult to assess whether the Bank was overly optimistic in term of the amount of
work required to prepare and appraise the project where the relationship between IDA and the GoV was
new. Bank resources utilized during project preparation were above average, mainly because of the need to
appraise the project twice. About 200 person days were spent on field missions for identification and
appraisal.
7.1.2  The 1993 appraisal team identified a number of risks to the achievement of project objectives
including: lack of basic procurement laws and regulations, lack of experience in using IDA procedures;
lack of market data on which to base cost estimates; uncertainties about counterpart funding and the legal
framework for land acquisition and resettlement. The appraisal's team views on the capacity of local
agencies for project implementation were probably overly optimistic, especially with respect to resettlement
and project supervision, and underestimated the impact bureaucratic decision making process would have
on project implementation.
7.1.3  The creation of PMU I within the MOT was warranted at the time of project start up. However, it
has had the effect of creating a parallel system in MOT with different pay scales and benefits. Thus, while
it was probably a needed short-term requirement for project implementation, a long term solution to resolve
capacity problems in MOT needs to be developed.
7.2 Supervision
7.2.1  Overall, Bank supervision is rated as satisfactory. IDA conducted 21 supervision missions
between November 1993 and March 2001, an average of three missions per year, but often at 1-2 months
intervals during critical periods. This was supported with continuous assistance available from the Bank's
Hanoi office. It is doubtful whether more frequent supervision missions would have improved
performance. The civil engineering works were supervised by intemational consultants, who were not
always effective in improving the pace of project delivery. In cases where even the on-site supervising
engineers had difficulties, IDA's supervision missions also had difficulty improving poor performance.
The combined impact of poor contractor performance, and lack of contract enforcement by the employer,
limited the effectiveness and raised the costs of supervision.
7.2.2  In contradiction to Bank procurement guidelines, dependent state-owned enterprises participated in
the bidding and were awarded IDA financed ICB contracts for the HSDC works. The unit rates offered in
the bid by the state-owned companies were artificially low and unsustainable. This, and their lack of
experience, often resulted in low quality work. Supervision by MOT of HSDC civil works, and
implementation of resettlement is deemed satisfactory, but could have been better. The main impacts were
delays and lower than designed quality of works.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1  Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. HRPI was IDA's first project in the transport
sector, and was identified and implemented when there was little knowledge of the sector available. IDA
has shown flexibility in dealing with the changes in the project scope, such as approving the construction of
the HSDC, extending the blackspot improvement program, and in response to the Borrower's request
- 13-



extended the credit closing date by two years.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  MOT's preparation for the project is rated as satisfactory. Initially there were problems related to
MOTs limited technical and managerial experience in meeting Bank appraisal requirements. The main area
of problems related to cost estimating, planning, and managment of land acquisition and
resettlement--which were different from Bank requirements.
7.5 Government implementation perfornmance
7.5.1  GoV performance is rated as satisfactory. GoV was fully committed to the project, even to the
extent of accelerating preparation beyond what was technically advisable. The decision to implement the
first three road contracts through "design and construct", instead of contract works on the basis of full
detailed design, was a risky decision and delayed works and reduced quality, even if it saved cost and time
during preparation. Following IDA's advice, MOT/PMUl for the construction of HSDC, prepared a
feasibility study, detailed design and tender documents. Counterpart funds were generally provided on time
and generally did not substantially interfere with implementation. However, the process for obtaining GoV
clearances for bidding documents and evaluation reports was much slower than expected due to
cumbersome internal administrative processes.
7.5.2  One of the main issues which interfered with project implementation was the ineffective handling of
land acquisition and resettlement. Data management was not computerized and the interface between
compensation data and accounting entries was not reliable. Weak financial control and lack of effective
field management often resulted in non-transparencies and difficult reconciliation process. In many cases
residents claimed not to have been compensated at all or not as announced, which led to physical
interference with the contractors' work including obstruction and damage to equipment. It was MOT's duty
to see that such interference did not happen. Substantial time was spent by the supervision missions on the
resettlement issues which is reflected in the Aide Memoires. A total of 26 Resettlement specialists
participated in 19 of the 21 supervision missions, not to mention that long term resettlement experts
financed by the Canadian Intemation Development Agency (CIDA) were posted with PMUl during the
first three years of implementation.
7.5.3  At appraisal, it was expected that roads improvements under the project would result in a reduction
of accidents, at least along project sections. This objective was however not achieved. While some key
factors like drivers' behavior and enforcement of traffic regulations fall outside the control of MOT, the
supervision missions found that MOT had not done enough to improve road signs, pedestrian crossing,
traffic-calming devices and enforcement of traffic management on the work-sites. IDA supervision missions
expressed serious traffic safety concems with many sections of the rehabilitated roads but especially with
the entire length of the HSDC by-pass, and noted that the environmental clauses in the works contracts had
not been substantially complied with by the contractors and properly enforced by the supervising engineers.
7.6 Inplementing Agency:
7.6.1  The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. Having overcome the initial
difficulties, PMU 1 showed a strong hand and demonstrated tenacity to master the project scope in both its
physical objectives and institutional developments. PMUI has gained substantial experience and
knowledge concerning implementation of larger road projects in Vietnam, and continues to improve it
- 14 -



performance through on-going IDA/ODA and domestically-financed projects.
7.6.2  The project was initially burdened and delayed by design changes, resettlement problems, variation
orders and cumbersome procurement procedures. As a result, substantial amounts of committed IDA
lending have been held up for long periods of time. Not all can be blammed on PMUl, as the decision
making process in the VN administrative system is cumbersome.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. MOT and PMU I have complied
substantially with the conditions of the credit and project agreements. IDA's procedures and requirements
were followed, with the exception that the Borrower used IDA fund for ineligible resettlement compensaton
expenses.
7.7.2 The cooperation between the GoV, MOT, PMUl, and IDA was cordial throughout preparation,
appraisal and implementation of the project.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.1  The lessons learned from implementation of the First Highway Rehabilitation project in Vietnam
are:
(i)    A learning-by-doing approach is an effective way to build capacity and understanding, however
requires clear objectives and institutional arrangements--Both the borrower and IDA benefited from a
"learning-by-doing" approach implicit in the design of the project, which resulted in a high level of capacity
and sector knowledge being exchanged over the relatively short period of project implementation. This
approach required the ability to focus investment in an limited number of high return investments, rather
than to spread a large number over a wider area, which avoided the need for overly complicated project
elements or implementation arrangements. During implementation, ongoing frank exchange of views,
selective technical assistance, and high-level of supervision contributed to support this approach.
(ui)  Implementation capacity and supervision arrangements in transitional countries require careful
consideration--Both the borrower and IDA should carefully consider the time and capacity required for
starting up project activities in a "new country" which is in political transition and/or has previously not
been exposed to Bank lending activities. This is especially true where there is a lack of experience with
international standards for financial management, contracting, and/or procurement. IDA procedures and
requirements can be slow to be adopted and difficult to implement where there are legal, cultural, or
historical barriers to their effective application. In a transitional economy, where the public sector may still
be dominant, clear guidelines and qualification procedures need to be established for state-owned
companies. As was observed in this project on conflict of interest issues, there is a tendency to rush into
complex lending programs in new IDA member countries without undertaking sufficient preparation
work--which can result in very high supervision costs, serious project delays, and overall lowered quality
outputs. In addition, where the domestic legal framework relating to land acquisition and resettlement
differs significantly from Bank policies, additional effort for capacity building, monitoring, and
management become necessary before the start of major civil works and/or related resettlement activities.
(iii)  Complex contracting approaches should be avoided where contractor's experience and capacity
is limited--In the early 1 990s, many international contractors rushed to Vietnam to participate in the
- 15-



reconstruction "gold rush". The competition was enormous, and contractors were bidding at loosing rates
so as to gain a foothold in a promising market. Many of these contractors had little or no experience with
the local Vietnamese conditions. Under these circumstances IDA should have objected to the "Design and
Construct" contracts for rehabilitation of roads under the project, which required potential contractors (and
the implementing agency) to prepare and review bids on the basis of preliminary engineering and feasibility
studies alone. Under this scenario, contractors which may have limited experience and capacity become
responsible for soil investigations, evaluation of results, detailed design, as well as construction. This has
the potential to create conflicts of interest and greatly increases the burden of supervision for the employer
and supervising engineer. For example, the incentive is often to reduce costs by reducing the amount of
geo-technical investigations and the soil improvements--which can lead to under design and poor
performance of the road structure.
(iv)   Road safety needs to be an integral part of project design, supervision, and operations--At the
time of appraisal, it was assumed that rehabilitation of pavements and the addition of shoulders would
improve road safety on project sections. Ex-post, however, it is clear that the number of traffic accidents
on project roads rose considerably both during and after construction. This was largely due to an increase
in both traffic and speeds, both of which were predictable at appraisal. While some key factors like
drivers' behavior and enforcement of traffic regulations fall outside of the implementing agencies
responsibility, more could have been done to improve road signage and markings, pedestrian crossings,
traffic-calming devices in densely populated areas, and enforcement of traffic management on construction
work-sites. To avoid undermining the benefits of road improvements, road safety must be given sufficient
visibility at all levels of project design, supervision, and operation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1.1 The implementing agency submitted a final draft ICR for the project to the Bank in May 2002.
Because of its length, the full report has been made available in project files, with an unedited summary
presented here:
A.    General
1.   The Highway Rehabilitation Project (HRP 1) was identified in by IDA in September 1990, appraised
in April 1991 and re-appraised in February 1993. The Credit was negotiated in Washington DC on
October 4, 1993, approved by the Board on 10/26/93 and signed on November 1,1993. The Credit became
effective on June 13, 1994.
B.    Project Description
2.    Project Objectives: a) to is raise overall economic efficiency and support economic recovery by
upgrading critical segments of the highway network; b) to transfer modem road technology to the relevant
agencies through a relevant program of technical assistance and training; c) to strengthen highway
maintenance capacity by providing technical assistance and equipment; and d) to lay the groundwork for
longer term collaboration between VN and IDA in the transport sector.
3.    The Project Components: a) rehabilitation of 430km of National Highway No. 1, construction of the
South Hanoi Development Corridor (SHDC), and elimination of Black Spots b) resettlement and
rehabilitation for PAPs; c) construction of new ferries, rehabilitation of existing ferries and improved ferry
- 16 -



operations; d) provision of equipment for: design and quality control of road construction, road
maintenance, environmental protection, road research, road data bank, and road traffic safety; e) staff
training and technology transfer; and f) consultants services for design and supervision of construction of
road woks
C.     Attained the Obiectives
4.    The project components have all been established to the anticipated standards. The impact in
lowering transport costs is apparent from the travel times and road conditions. The TA components have
provided up-to-date road and bridge design and construction standards, traffic safety procedures and
guidelines, and road maintenance procedures and guidelines, which are being used by authorities,
consultants and contractors. The experience with IDA projects in MOT has resulted in formulation and
implementation of further IDA projects (HRP2 and MTFP). Further risks and failing assumptions
requiring major changes in project scope, budget and implementation schedule were recognized during
implementation of the project: Conflicting interests in resettlement policies between GOV and IDA
*   Time consuming GOV procedures for resettlement and land acquisition
*   An unrealistically tight RRAP implementation schedule was imposed by IDA for the start up and
implementation of RRAP
*   Insufficient time allowed in the implementation schedule for obtaining GOV comments and approvals
on project matters and documents
*   Major changes in pavement design
*   Resettlement and capacity problems in the 30 km Hanoi --Gau Gie section of Contract I
*   Major delays occurred in formulating various TA and training components
4.1   The attained major objectives of different components are as follows: a) rehabilitated 430km of
National Highway No. I (Ha Noi - Vinh and HCM City - Can Tho) and associated resettlements of
households and businesses; b) constructed the South Hanoi Development Corridor (HSDC); c) eliminated a
large number of Black Spots; d) resettled and rehabilitated PAPs; e) constructed new ferries and
rehabilitated existing ferries and improved feny operations at the Mekong River crossings at My Thuan
and Can Tho; f) provided equipment for: design and quality control of road construction, road maintenance,
environmental protection, road research, road data bank and road traffic safety; g) completed staff training
and technology transfer and studies on: advisory and contract management services, technical assistance to
the RRMUs, development of roads and bridges standards, road safety, and retraining of road sector
professionals; improvement, institutional strengthening/reform and transfer of technology components that
include technical assistance and training for the RRMUs and training for highway personnel; and h)
completed the studies to improve the sector and to select and prepare a future road investment program.
D.    Project Formulation and Preparation
5.   In1990, the WB investigated the possibility to assist VN in the rehabilitation of its road network
which had seriously deteriorated and threatened to hamper VN's economic recovery. In addition MOT, its
agencies, institutions and unions had highly qualified personnel, although suffering from a technological
gap due to long isolation from intemational experience. Highway investment and maintenance was
under-funded, and traffic-growth increasing.
6.     IDA's project identification mission visited Hanoi in September 1990 and had discussions with the
GoVN and MOT and identified the project. the project was appraised in April 1991 and re-appraised in
February 1993, negotiations were held in Washington on October 4, 1993, and the Credit was approved by
- 17 -



the World Bank Board on October 26, 1993.
7.     On November 1, 1993 the Govemment of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam (GOV) entered into
a Development Credit Agreement with IDA on financing and implementation of the Highway Rehabilitation
Project. The project is the first WB supported project in VN, and thus new experience to VN as well as the
WB. The GOV established Highway No. ] Project Management Unit (PMU I) for the implementation of the
project.
8.     The credit agreement amounts to SDR 112.200 million (USD 158.50 million equivalent). The
total project budget including GOV financing is USD 176.00 million.
E.    Project Implementation
9.    The 3 contracts for the rehabilitation of 2 sections of Highway No. I started in 1996 and ended In
1999. Contract I - Hanoi to Doc Xay (approximately 101 kin) was executed by China National Overseas
Engineering Corporation (COVEC), China. Contract 2 - Doc Xay to Vinh (about 180 km) was executed
by KUKDONG Engineering Corporation (KUKDONG), Korea. Contract 3 - Ho Chi Minh to Can Tho
(151 km) was executed by BES Engineering Corp. (BES), China-Taiwan. The volume of the completed
works consist of: (i) widening of the roadway embankments, carriageways and shoulders;
(ii) grade raising and embankment stabilization in flood prone areas; (iii) reinstatement of damaged
pavement; (iv) strengthening of the pavement with hot asphalt mix overlays; (v) rehabilitation or
replacement of small bridges (less than 1GOm in length); (vi) installation of new culverts and extension of
some existing culverts; (vii) construction of lined drainage ditches and other drainage structures; (viii)
widening of the roadway and provision of side drainage in several urban areas; (ix) construction of a 109 m
long, one-way tunnel at km 285+600 on Contract 1; (x) improved road safety and traffic operational
efficiency through the installation of road furniture that included traffic signs, road markings, guideposts
and guardrail.
10.   The construction of the HSDC by-pass (new works) were executed under 2 contracts. Contract IA-1
- Phap Van to Tu Khoat intersections (approximately 5km) has been executed by the joint venture of
CIENCO 8 (VN) and Truong Son Corp (Vietnam). Contract IA-2 - Tu Khoat intersection to Thuong Tin
(11.6 kin) has been executed by CIENC 8 (VN) and CIENCO 1 (VN). The volume of completed works
includes: (i) earthworks for the roadway and shoulders; (ii) prefabricated vertical drains, sand blankets and
dewatering drainage systems to facilitate settlement in soft ground areas; (iii) crushed gravel base and
sub-base with asphalt concrete binder and wearing courses; (iv) construction of 3 single-span bridges 33 m
in length; (v) construction of pipe and box culverts, ditches and other drainage structures; (vi) construction
of farm road underpasses; (vii) installation of road furniture; (viii) extend the Van Dien Bridge to be a 2
span structure 66 m long; (ix) add 12 underpasses; (x) add 2 flyovers; (xi) overlay and widen 800 m of
Phap Van - Yen So Road to link the existing Highway No. I to the HSDC bypass; (xii) provide additional
reinforced concrete pipe cross and lateral culverts;
(xiii) accelerate surcharge removal; (xiv) provide macadam paved access tracks on both sides of the
mainline; (xv) rehabilitate and pave several farm connector roads and lead into the underpasses; (xvi)
provide lighting systems at several location on the mainline; (xvii) rehabilitate and pave provincial
highways Nos. 70 and 71; (xviii) install guardrail in the medium strip, and (xix) install lighting system.
11.   For the planned and actual outputs, the 2 projects have large deviations on the basis of a number of
additional works and some revisions approved by competent authorities in both projects. For example: in
Contract No. I additional works for design and construction of the (209m long - one lane ) Doc Xai tunnel;
in Contract No. 2 for design and construction of the drainage systems and the pavement widening in Than
- 18-



Hoa, Dien Chau, Vinh; design and construction of Khe Son Bridge; in Contract No. 3 for the design and
the construction of drainage systems and the pavement widening in An La and Binh Chanh, etc. These led
to changes between original values with adjusted values of contracts in HRP1.
12.  Resettlement: The resettlement activities have taken place in 10 provinces/cities with compensation
cost of VND 307.5 billion. There are in all 22,521 PA-Ps, including 14,983 with loss of structures; 6,603
with loss of land and 10,473 with loss of crops and trees. The compensation costs VND 184 billion. 120
public facilities were relocated and compensated by VND 47.9 billion. 23 resettlement sites for 1,492 PAPs
are developed with cost totals VND 42.1 billion. Training courses were participated by 517 seriously
affected persons, and cost VND 2.3 billion.
13.  Specifically as follows:
Main road: 18,646 were compensated, including 14,722 with loss of structures; 3,131 with loss of land and
7,001 with loss of crops and trees. 100 public facilities were relocated. 19 resettlement sites are built for
1,348 PAPS. 347 PAPs participated in the training courses paid for by the Project.
HSDC: Contract IA of PMU. I covers 16.63km, running through 2 districts (Thanh Tri, Ha Noi City and
Thuong Tin, Ha Tay Province), including 4 and 6 communes respectively. There are about 3,875 PAPs,
including (i) 261 affected by loss of residential land, (ii) by loss of 3,472 of agricultural land, and (iii) 142
by loss of business. Some 20 public facilities have been affected in HSCD. 4 resettlement sites were
developed for 144 relocated PAPs. Training courses were organized for 170 PAPs.
The above include some differences from the RAP as follows:
According to the RAP, there are 18,363 PAPs (including 7,263 to be relocated, 3,354 participate in the
training courses) but there are 22,521 in actual. The main reason is that the HSDC project was added into
the project. As estimated in RAP, 7,263 PAPs to be relocated. However, number of displaced PAPs is
2,176 because most PAPs re-organize on remaining land along the road to do business and do not want to
remove elsewhere. According to RAP, there are 18,363 displaced PAPs to participate in the training
courses. However, number of eligible PAPs reduced and number of PAPs opting for training courses
reduced too so the actual number participated in the training courses is 517 PAPs.
14.    Improvement of Blackspots. As indicated above in 3. Above, total 80 blackspots are improved
under HRPI. The improvement of these blackspots are carried out by the road management & repair
companies that are in charge of management of the sections where blackspots are located. Design and
supervision of these blackspots improvement are carried out by local consultants under the review and
instruction by intemational consultants (Ross Silcock and Parkman). VRA initial report shows that traffic
accidents are most eliminated. On the other the local consultant are trained on blackspots identification and
removal measures including new techniques to tackle the blackspots (such as rumbling bar/band etc.) This
program for blackspots improvement has worked as an initiative and now is promoted that the GOV
annually allocates budget for blackspots improvement and VRA is planned to develop traffic safety audit
and apply compulsory application in highway sector.
15.  Goods and Equipment
15.1 Because the requirements were not yet known, the appraisal team opted for a lump-sum of allocated
a total amount of US$12.11 million for goods and equipment. The final cost estimate is US$10.32 million
subdivided as follows:
- 19-



15.2   Highway Maintenance Equipment: (not detailed in SAR, US$9.45 million, ICR) The
consultants, Kampsax A/S (Denmark) carried out a survey of equipment requirements and capacity of
RRMU's and engineering firms. The final list has been accepted by the Bank and the Govemment of
Vietnam. As specified in the Credit Agreement, the equipment was procured through ICB procedures in
two lots. Lot 1 (5 contracts totaling USD5.56 million) was procured immediately with Credit
effectiveness. Procurement of equipment under Lot 2 (4 contracts totaling US$3.89 million was delayed to
await feed-back on equipment procured under Lot 1. All the contracts for supplies of equipment aforesaid
have completed in time and delivery of the equipment to the end-users promptly completed. All the supplied
equipment are in full use and well contributes to the maintenance and management of the highway network.
The supplied equipment has improved much the capacity of the agencies where the equipment is
distributed. All procurement was completed prior to revised Credit closing date.
15.3   Equipment for PMUI Operations (not detail in SAR; US$0.25 million, ICR) The list of
equipment was prepared by consultants (Kampsax (Denmark)) and procured through Local Shopping
comprising 5 contracts valued at US$75,900 and JPY13.26 million, and VND42.58 million
15.4   Equipment for "Technical Assistance & Transfer of Technology to VRA/RRMUs" (not detailed
in SAR; US$0.16 million, ICR) The list of equipment procured was prepared by the consultant (Parkman
(UK) and Nedeco (Netherlands) for the use of the VRA, RRMU2 and RRMC's. The equipment has been
procured in Local Shopping procurement method as approved by the Bank, comprising 6 contracts valued
at US$143,600 and GBP12,800.
15.5   Equipment for the "Vietnam Road Safety Improvement Study" (not detailed in SAR; US$0.65
million, ICR) The list was proposed by consultants (TRL and Ross Silcock (UK)) for use by the VRA,
Traffic Police, National Traffic Safety Committee, RRMU2 and RRMC'. The equipment has been
procured in Local Shopping procurement method as approved by the Bank, comprising 8 contracts valued
at US$548,700 and VND383.3 million.
15.6 All the contracts for supplies of equipment aforesaid have completed in time and delivery of the
equipment to the end-users promptly completed. All the supplied equipment are in full use and well
contributes to the maintenance and management of the highway network. The supplied equipment has
improved much the capacity of the agencies where the equipment is distributed
16.    Consultant Services for Construction Supervision:
16.1   For supervision of Highway No. I the original contract value is US$7,996,004 conducted by the
joint venture of Louis Berger International Inc. (LBGI) and Deleuw Cather intemational Ltd. (DCIL) with
the Vietnamese Research Institute of Transportation Science and Technology (RITST) as Sub-consultant.
During implementation of the contract, 5 addenda were agreed and signed in the process of supervising
construction of HRPI with total adjusted value US$8,795,617. The supervision contract was completed in
October 2000.
16.2   Based on economic analyses of alternative alignments and the fact that widening on the existing
alignment would result in considerable resettlement, and alignrment east of the Hanoi South Development
Corridor (HSDC) was selected as the location for limited access bypass. The LBGI and DCIL was
selected to carry out the detail engineering design of HSDC project. Total contract value was US$690,258.
- 20 -



16.3    Using budget saving the international competitive bidding in HPRI and after consultant selecting
process, the joint Venture of Louis Berger Group, Inc. Deleuw Cater Intemational Ltd. and the Vietnam
Bridge and Road Centre (VIBROCE) has been carrying out the construction supervision of the HSDC
project. The contract had value of US$ 1,244,276 excluding taxes. Due to increasing the consultant's
nature of work as well as the request the develop both economic and financial feasibility analyses for most
of the added works, and the request to investigate the requirements for upgrading of local road. The two
addenda were approved and signed. Under these addenda, the value of the construction supervision
contract is increased to US$1,884,064.03.
17.    Consultancy Services for Training and Studies. To reduce the technological gap which MOT, its
agencies, institutions and unions had due to long isolation from international experience the project
included a substantial amount advisory services, technical assistance, training and studies. All the above
contributed to the success of the projects and increased MOT's overall capabilities.
17.1   Advisory and Contract Management Services. Kampsax International A/S (Denmark) was
selected to perform the services and their team was mobilised on 23 January 1995. The services (50
man-months) were provided during the period January 1995 - December 1997 for Advisory Services and
followed by Contract Management Services. The services were 27.5 man-months and completed in 2000.
The services has implemented the following tasks to produce effective assistance to PMUI in all project
management aspects:
(a)   general operational assistance to PMU1-technical and contract management aspects;
(b)    general operational assistance to PMU1 -financial management aspects;
(c)    review operational structure of PMUI;
(d)    computerized system for contract administration;
(e)    computerized accounting system;
(f)    computerized system for monitoring and reporting progress; and
(g)    workshops on contract management, procurement and financial subjects.
17.1.1 In addition, Kampsax A/S carried out a survey of equipment requirements and capacity of
RRMU's and engineering firms. The final list of equipment has been accepted by the Bank and the
Government of Vietnam.
17.2   Technical Assistance & Transfer of Technology to RRIMUs. The component has been procured
under the Bank's rules on selection of consultant and the Contract for Technical Assistance in Road
Management to RRMU's is awarded to Parkman (UK) in association with Nedeco (Netherlands). The
contract was started in 1997 and completed in 2001. The consultant team consist of expatriate experts (68
MM) and local experts (212 MM). Due to the Bank's request to overview the preparation and
implementation of Additional Programme for Blackspots improvement the remaining budget (GBP 6,244
and USD 18,581) of the contract was paid for the said services. The services has been implemented in three
phases.
17.2.1  Phase I (1 5.25MM of expatriate experts and 16 MM of local experts) was focused on review of
the existing conditions and transfer of technology of road network management. The activities of this phase
are summarised in the following areas:
System Strategy;           Mechanical and Facilities Assessment;  Axle Loading;
Routine Maintenance;       Periodic Maintenance;              Pavement Design;
- 21 -



Routine Bridge Maintenance;  Bridge Management System;        Road Safety;
Pavement Failure Modes;     Quality Assurance;                Financial Management;
Contracting Industry;       Human Resource Development;       Institutional Strengthening;
17.2.2    Phase 2 and 3 followed the Phase 1 and completed in Feb 2001 (53mm of expatriate experts
and 197 MM of local experts). The Phase 2/3 were focused on selection of computerised road and bridge
management softwares (RoSy and BridgeMan), installation of these software, as well as training staff of
the VRA/RRMU's and RRMC's on operation of the systems. The required hardware was procured and
supplied to the agencies..
17.2.3    Both softwares RoSy and BridgeMan were installed in RRMU's 4 and 5 and 7 as expansion of
the systems. Training on operation of these softwares was provided for staff of these agencies.
17.2.4   However, the project has not expanded to the Provincial Transport Authorities who are also in
charge of some national highways.
17.3.    Development of Roads and Bridges Standards
17.3.1  The contract for this service was awarded to Wilbur Smith Associates (USA) in association with
De Leuw Cather intemational ltd.(USA).The contract was started in 1999 and completed in June 2000.
The consultant team consist of expatriate (21 MM) and local experts (50 MM).
17.3.2 The services were carried out in 2 phases: Phase 1: Review and assessment of the current
Vietnamese road and bridge standards; and
Phase 2: Preparation of road and bridge standards by adapting AASHTO's standards and specifications to
reflect conditions in Vietnam.
17.3.3  During the Phase 2, the following basic documents for the Development of Roads and Bridges
Standards were prepared:
1. Specification for Design of Flexible Pavements;
2. Specification for Bridge Design;
3. Specification for Road Design; and
4. Construction Specifications;
17.3.4   These documents were reviewed through workshops attended by the international and local
experts and finally the three first documents were accepted by Ministry of Transport and issued for
nationwide application. The last one "Construction Specifications" is not comprehensive and need to be
improved.
17.4     Vietnam Road Safety Improvement Study.
17.4.1   The contract for this service was awarded to Ross Silcock (UK) in association with TRL and
Crown Agents (UK). The contract was started in 1997 and completed in March 2000. The consultant team
consist of expatriate experts (24 MM).
17.4.2 The services were carried out in 2 phases: Phase 1: Review and assessment of the existing
Vietnamese road safety; and Phase 2. Preparation of manuals and training of relevant staff through
- 22 -



implementation of pilot projects on road safety engineering including blackspot identification and measures
to improve the blackspots, traffic law enforcement, accident database including data fonnat and data
collection and data analyze, traffic audit. A Priority Action Plan was prepared. During Phase 2: a pilot
improvement project for 9 blackspots was prepared and implemented. The team was thus introduced to the
technology of identifying and improving the blackspots.
17.4.3 The study was highly appreciated by Vietnamese agencies.
17.5.  Retraining of Road Sector Professionals
17.5.1 The contract for this service was awarded to Scott Wilson (UK) in association with TRL,
University of Notingham, Leeds Metropolitan University (UK) and Booz Allen & Hamilton (USA). The
contract was started in 2001 and completed in December 2001. The consultant team consist of expatriate
experts (3 9 @) and local experts (73 MM). The services comprise two parts of activities:
17.5.2 Preparation of training materials (including training notes, presentation slide etc.) was made by the
expatriate experts. The training materials were translated into Vietnamese and refined by local experts.
17.5.3 Delivery of courses was first taken in pilot by the expatriate experts. The local experts also
attended these courses to observe the expatriate experts and receive transfer of training technology.
Afterwards the local experts delivered the courses by themselves.
17.5.4 The trainees came from ministerial departments (including VRA and its sub-agencies, Department
for Inspection & Quality Control of Transport Works, Transport Strategy Institute, Research Institute for
Transport Science & Technology, etc.), construction corporations and companies, engineering consultant
companies Due to the internal procedures the services was delayed for nearly 8 months. However,
preparation of training was successfully completed and number of courses has been reduced to 15
courses.The total courses were delivered as follows:
Class                                                Courses                Trainees
Class A                    (for senior managers)        4                       110
Class B                    (for highway engineers)      4                        93
Class C                    (for bridge engineers)       4                        67
Class D                    (for construction supervisors)  3                     60
Total                                                   15                      330
F.      Rehabilitation of Highway No. I and Construction of HSDC By-pass
18.     Civil works
18.1    Highway No. 1: Notice to Commence works on the three civil works contracts 1, 2 and 3 were
given in January/February 1996. Works were completed and opened to traffic in September 1999;
18.2    HSDC By-pass: Notice to Commence works on the 2 civil works contracts IA-I and IA-2 were
given ln September 1998. Works were completed and opened to traffic in December 31. 2001.
18.3    After the Highway No. 1 and the HSDC by-pass were opened to traffic, the traffic congestion on
the roads has been relieved, and the driving times substantially shortened.
- 23 -



18.4    Improvement of Blackspots - a total of 80 blackspots are improved under HRP1
19.    Traffic Control and Tolling Systems: The operation and maintenance of the roads is managed by
the VRA through the RRMUs. The roads will be turned into toll roads, to be managed by the VRA.
G.     Activities of Implementation Agency (PMU1)
20.    The PMUI - In order to coordinate the preparation and later be responsible for the implementation
highway project along Highway No. 1 supported by ADB, IDA, the MOT established the Highway No. 1
Project Management Unit (PMU1) in 1993. PMU1 was staffed by experienced management, engineers,
accountants and support staff and was supported intermittently by international engineering, financial and
contract management advisors. PMUI 's function as executing agency included:
20.1   Project preparation: Liaison with GOV to secure comments and approval on technical, financial
and organization aspects of project preparation including: Development Credit Agreements; project
formulation, organization and composition; procurement of consulting services, works and goods; close
liaison with IDA to expedite processing of credit agreement; coordination with other donors interested in
the development of VN's highway system; and preparation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).
20.2   Project Implementation: Procure services and works for implementing rehabilitation schemes;
perfonn function of "Employer" for highway rehabilitation contracts; implement RAP; resolve problems
between the contractors and the local authorities; manage to overcome delays and maintain budgets during
contract implementation.
20.3   Other PMUl functions: Manage organizational and financial aspects of the training component;
monitor resettlement activities; monitor, evaluate and report on physical progress of project; manage
flow of project funds; assure adequate GOV budget allocations (counterpart funds); submit
disbursement request to IDA and obtain audit reports; facilitate and assist IDA supervision missions;
prepare PCR within 4 months of closing of credit.
20.4   For the implementation of the project PMU1 has cooperated with the:
RRMUs for rehabilitation works and the Consultants for maintenance management and for the
selection of maintenance equipment;
MOT's Department of Training for the training component;
Provincial and District Peoples Committees for resettlement; and
Traffic Police and VNRA and National Traffic Safety Committee for traffic safety.
20.5  Liaison with GOV and IDA:
GoV and IDA have been very helpful in solving problems when they were realised (frequent IDA
missions, and IDA provision of resettlement expertise during a critical period);
GoV decrees to expedite intra-ministerial resettlement issues;
PMUI liaised with success with IDA and GoV to clarify conflicting issues;
H.    Environmental Impact Assessment
- 24 -



I.    Main Factors Affecting the Project
22.   Further risks (in addition to those stated in the SAR) and failing assumptions requiring major
changes in project scope, budget and implementation schedule were recognized during implementation of
the project:
* Resettlement activities were unrealistically timed by IDA resettlement experts at the critical initiation
of the RRAP during 1995, resulting in frustration and further delays.
* Time consuming GOV procedures for resettlement and land acquisition;
* Compensation problems caused major delays in handover of sections to the contractor. However, the
cooperation between PM1 , the Engineer and the contractors essentially managed to overcome these
delays.
*   Progress reporting to IDA was irregular and late from the Engineer and PNMI making timely
identification by IDA/MOT difficult
* Major delays in the start of the HSDC due late realization for the need of the project and delays in the
completion due to the necessary settlement time of the embankments on deep strata of soft soil, and
extra works
* Further delay in resettlement completion caused further delay for HSDC contracts implementation.
* Insufficient time allowed in the implementation schedule in general for obtaining GOV comments and
approvals on project matters and documents;
* Major changes in pavement design due to the insufficient engineering design done ahead of the
construction.
* Resettlement and capacity problems in the 30 km Hanoi -- Gau Gie section of Contract 1;
* Major delays occurred in formulating various TA and training components by GOV procedures;
* The 7 months delay in completion of Contract 3, is due to extra works caused by weaker pavement that
envisaged during preparation;
* Major changes to the project scope include:
* the addition of services;
* works and resettlement activities for the study;
* preparation and implementation of the Hanoi South Development project (HSDC); and
* additional program for Blackspot improvement.
23.   Procurement
23.1 Once the final list of equipment, which was largely prepared with the assistance of consultants, has
been accepted by the Bank and GOV, all procurement whether ICB, NCB, Intemational and National
Shopping, has strictly followed the Bank's procedures.
23.2 The procurement of works and services has strictly followed the Bank's procedures.
J.    Project Sustainability
24.  Institutional Development and Training
a)   the TA to RRMUs has strengthened highway maintenance capacity and capability;
b)   the traffic safety study has strengthened the ability to identify and implement
traffic safety measures and the enforcement by police of safe traffic operation.
25.  Operation and Maintenance
- 25 -



a)    the maintenance equipment and the maintenance planning capabilities are
expected to ensure appropriate maintenance.
b)    the traffic safety equipment and the traffic police training, establishment of safety
audit and safety design procedures are expected to mitigate the adverse effect of
the improved road condition on the accident rate.
26.    Project Risks
Lack of funding for maintenance activities and for traffic safety improvement could endanger respectively
the investment and operational safety.
K.      Recommendations
27.    Resettlement:
* MOT's resettlement staff increasingly to be given opportunity to use their experience gained in
resettlement activities in future projects.
* Material compensation is unrealistic. For future projects, PAPs to be compensated in cash to meet their
demands and to hasten resettlement progress.
Consultation and communication with PAPs to be conducted to facilitate resettlement activities.
Group resettlement sites in rural areas and small cities do not work. Individual resettlement proves very
helpful, shorten the implementation progress and meet PAPs' demands.
More time and works to be invested in restoration programs for better result.
28.    Civil works:
VN consultants and contractors increasingly to be given opportunity to use the experience gained in
road technology (maintenance planning, construction, traffic safety, standards, etc.) in future projects
Monitoring targets for road condition, construction costs, traffic safety frequency and severity, road
deterioration progression to be used to monitor the effect of this experience
Identify road user charges to fund road and bridge maintenance activities
Improve RRAP planning to include constraints relevant to land acquisition and resettlement in VN as
experienced during HRP I
Identify sections for hand-over to contractors of a suitable minimum length and with realistic access
possibilities
Tight monitoring of RRAP
PMUI to improve appropriate timely progress reporting through establishment of MIS
29.    Institutional Strengthening:
More studies should be carried out to improve legal frame and sector management in highway sector,
especially in road traffic safety and highway network operation.
Institutional strengthening should be expanded to Provincial Transport Authorities. Under this first
project only the VRA and RR1MU's are provided with the Computerised Road and Bridge Management
System and relevant technology of highway network management while Provincial Transport
Authorities also involve management partly of national highway network and fully of provincial
highway network. The institutional strengthening may include supply of the software (Rosy and
Bridgeman) and the relevant equipment at first and training on operation of the system.
- 26 -



More highway maintenance equipment should be supplied for VRA and RRMU's. The national
highway network is fast developing in length and magnitude. VRA and RRMU's are therefore
managing more and more national highways and required to be more capable of managing the highway
network.
An earlier draft of the Bank's ICR was sent to the borrower for comment on June 4, 2002. Comments
received are attached here:
- 27 -



IEt GTAO THONG V#N TAI
coNG H6A xA HOT CTItT NGOA V[8T NAM
tVUNJSTlRY OF TRANSPORT
s-   3t .fisrRMC OFVMMAM
go8 Trin &turngE)#n       Tel :84A-4.- 3 762
4A. Ni - Vtt Nx           Fax' *84A-9.423291
Email idopt;-not4bn.vnn.vn
Date: 14 June200
From: Nguyen Viet Tien
Vice Minister
Minitry of Trinsquv
Hlanoi, Vietnam
To:   Mr. Jerry Lebo                                    Fax:   {202)-5Z2 3b73
Sr. Tr.ispi t pciali;st
Tmansport UJnit, FAst Asia & Pacific Region
CC:   Mr. Jitendra Bajpai
Sector Director
Transport liai East Asia & Pacfic Rcgion
CC:   Mr. Asldrew Steer                                  -ax.934659S, 93.16597
Counrny I-Inr.tor, Vii.niAM
East Mia & Pacifi< RoIoft
Subject:     Vietnam: flighwav Rchabilitation Project (Credit 25493!%N)-
[mplementatinn *'ompletnrn Repori
Dear Sir.
Ihhank you verv muchi for your letter dated. Jute (.4, 2002 regardiut the Inplenmentntzon
Comnpeiton Repon for Highway Rebablliiauioa Projcwt-Crodit 2549-VN
We have studied the draft fmnl Inpletnentaion Complotion Report. We subeswntialIv agiee on
this draf fi mal rce J)rt for tbc abov mentioned pmojent. But, we bave some additional following
comzents:
1.    We woild l.ike to correct the p hrarapb -53.I: PMU I did not have tectuiecal cp3tcity
to as=ses te acai%itics of the conaertors nor to cvaluatc die judgcmcnt of tie cottsultant'. Wc
thing that without tecbmca capacity of Ebt PMU lthe project can not be completed as it was.
2.    We would Ulke to corTrea the pannAp 5.3.4 lxurnuse this dJoes Itot tAe into aczollm
the real efform tfie employor has made for the succeeri completion of tb. oontructs under the
y~L
3.    We woruld like to adjwsst the paregapb 5.33 expocially for thce cntcuccs from "In
addfdon-..bavo been allr,wed" dtue to tfe fact that MnT/PMUi I never insmticrt tthe contretors
to use nominiated subscontractors.
- 28 -



3.    We would like to adu tc p           53.3 cxpecially for thcscntcu s from M
addftton.-bave beeow aalowed"-due to the fact that MoT/PM1   ne6r insticted the contracton
to use znominae d
-29 -



- 30 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) roughness index not greater than 2 5  Not Projected                       Estimated to be 4.0
m/km by 1999;
(ii) reduced passenger tanffs (bus/ferry  Not Projected                       Ferry Component was dropped from
D/km and %) between Ha Nor and Vinh,                                          project-no data available
HCMC and Can Tho by at least 5% in real
terms
(iii) reduced freight tariffs (rice, petroleum  Not Projected                 No data available-but likely achieved
and cement: D/ton-km and %) by at least 5%
in real terms.
(Iv) time savings through increased average  Not Projected                    Achieved
travel speed between Ha Noi - Vinh, and
HCMC-Can Tho to 65 km/h for cars and 50
km/h for buses and trucks,
(v) travel time by bus reduced by 10% in  Not Projected                       Achieved
1999
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
- 31 -






Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
A. Road Rehabilitation                            88.49         112.40           127
B.* Ferry Operations                               8.50          16.01           188
C. Equipment                                       10.25         10.32           101
D. Technical Assistance                            7.40          17.80           240
E. Training Program                                2.00           1.84            92
F. Resettlement and Land Acquisition              32.80          28.30            86
Total Baseline Cost                              149.44         186.67
Physical Contingencies                           15.65           0.00
Price Contingencies                               10.91
Total Project Costs           176.00        186.67
Total Financing Required           176.00         186.67
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    99.45         0.00        26.71        0.00        126.16
(87.24)      (0.00)       (26.71)      (0.00)     (113.95)
2. Goods                    16.75         0.00        2.00         0.00        18.75
(15.96)      (0.00)       (1.90)       (0.00)      (17.86)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00        26.69        0.00        26.69
(0.00)       (0.00)      (26.69)       (0.00)      (26.69)
4. Resettlement & Land       0.00         0.00        0.00         4.40         4.40
Acquisition                 (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    116.20        0.00         55.40        4.40        176.00
.   (103.20)      (0.00)      (55.30)       (0.00)     (158.50)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB         'NCB         Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    109.59       0.00         2.81         0.00       112.40
(94.97)      (0.00)       (2.81)      (0.00)       (97.78)
2. Goods                    10.32         0.00        0.00         0.00        10.32
(10.32)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (10.32)
3. Services                 20.05        0.00         0.00         0.00        20.05
(20.05)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (20.05)
- 32 -



4. Resettlement & Land           0.00           0.00          28.40          0.00          28.40
Acquisition                     (0.00)         (0.00)        (17.68)        (0.00)        (17.68)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        139.96          0.00          31.21          0.00          171.17
(125.34)        (0.00)        (20.49)        (0.00)       (145.83)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to bc financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2' inCludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted stafT
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (n) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1              1                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate    P      ai
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
A. Road Rehabilitation   84.99      11.96     0.00      97.78      14.62     0.00    115.0   122 2   0.0
B. Ferr-y Operations      8.59      0 55      0.00      0 00       1.10      14.91    0.0    200.0   0.0
C. Equipment              11.52     0.59      0.00      10.19      0.13      0 00     88.5   22.0    0.0
D. Techlincal Assistance  7.40      0 00      0.00      17 80      0.00      0 00    240.5    0.0    0.0
E. Training               2 36      () 00     0.00       1 84      0.00      0 00     78.0    0 0    0.0
F. Resettlement and Land  28 40     4 40      0.00      17.68      10.62     0.00     62.3   241 4   0.0
Acquisition
- 33 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
1.     The main source of data for ex-post project evaluation was the implementing agency and RRMUs.
Data came from condition surveys taken shortly after the end of project works and traffic counts from the
year 2001. No traffic data or condition surveys were available at the time of publication concerining
HSDC, so an economic evaluation was not possible for these investments.
2.     At appraisal, an economic evaluation was conducted for each road segment to be constructed, with
the corresponding EIRRs varying from 20% to over 100%--and a weighted composite EIRR for the overall
highway component calculated to be 89%. The HSDC component was added later to the project and was
therefore not included in the appraisal economic evaluation. At completion, a economic evaluation was
undertaken for the highway component following as closely as possible the original appraisal procedures.
On that basis, the re-eatimated EIRR for each road segment was calculated to vary between 25% to 58%,
with an overall weighted EIRR for the highway component re-estimated to be 38%.
3.     The main reasons for a lower were higher than expected unit costs, lower traffic growth, and higher
road roughness than expected at appraisal. Total investment costs for the rehabilitated sections of
Highway No. I increased from an estimate of US$109.9 million to US$113.6 million, including the costs of
construction, design and supervision, black spot improvements, resettlement and land acquisition for cach
of the three sections of road rehabilitated (i.e. Hanoi to Doc Xai, Doc Xai to Vinh and Ho Chi Minh City to
Can Tho). The main reason was higher than expected supervision and construction costs--and minor
additions to the blackspot program. Routine (annual) and periodic maintenance (after five years) costs
have been estimated at US$2000/km and US$5000/km respectively. There was also lower than expected
traffic growth on project roads. Between 1996 and 2001, daily traffic has increased between 70% and
120% along the rehabilitated sections of highway. While these rates of growth are large, they have not
quite matched the 15% annual growth rates that were at appraisal--but were a more modest 10% per
annum.
4.     For the calculation of vehicle operating cost at completions, estimates were based on the
l-IDM-VOC calculations contained within a 1999 IT Transport report on the "Analysis of Vehicle
Operating Costs on Rural Roads". It was assumed that there would have been an annual roughness of IRI
8 in the without project case an average roughness of IRI 4 over the life of the with project scenario. This
is a conservative estimated, but realistic given the actual observations one year following rehabilitation in
the range of IRI 2.5 to 4. The principal benefits in this economic analysis come from savings in vehicle
operating costs from improved road conditions and from large increases in traffic volumes.
5.     The analysis is also sensitive to type of vehicle mix at each of the count locations. At the time of
wnting there is no reliable data on the percentage of traffic for each vehicle type. The assumption has been
made that the vehicle mix is in line with actual vehicle numbers in 1996 as shown in Table 1:
Table 1: Project costs for Highway No. 1 (US$ millions l
Construction   Supervision  Land acquisition   Total    Average cost
costs         costs      and resettlement   costs      per km
Project           85.2          9.2             28.3         122.7        0.28
At Appraisal      77.1          3.9             32.8         113.8        0.26
- 34 -



Table 2: Assumptions on vehicle mix
Vehicle type          Assumed percentage of total traffic volume (%)
Car                   2.9
Large Bus            0.75
Small Bus            0.75
Light truck/pickup   0.75
Medium truck         1.14
Large truck          0.41
Cong Nong            2.1
Motorcycle            91.2
6.     In re-estimating the EIRR, a planning discount rate of 10% has been used. The EIRR is lower in
all cases than at appraisal with the re-estimate along each segment ranging between 25% and 58% as
shown in Table 2. A sensitivity analysis shows that a further reduction in VOC benefits of 25% would still
return acceptable EIRRs.
Table 3: Key economic data
Road        Length    Investment     Average Daily     NPV         EIRR (%)
(km)    cost (US$/km)      Traffic     (US$m/km)
Hanoi - Doc     101      322,606         9,194           0.5          29
Xai
Doc Xai - Vinh 180       217,981         4,706           0.21         23
HCMC - Can      151     337,442          20,478          1.45         55
T h o           _  _ _    _  _  _ _  _    _  _  _ _  _    _  _ _  _    _  _  _ _  _
All roads       432     284,000          11,276          0.71         38
7.     Investment costs used for analysis included the costs of black spot improvements. However, during
the implementation period of the project and beyond, there has been an appreciable increase in the rate of
traffic accidents along the rehabilitation sections of highway--resulting in both injury and death. At this
time there is no accurate information on the extent of the problem and therefore accident costs have not
been included in this analysis. A recent Vietnam road safety study (March 2000) estimated that road traffic
accidents nationally were costing the economy US$200 million annually. Clearly, if the costs of road traffic
accidents were included in the above analysis, it would have a negative impact on the re-estimated EIRRs.
- 35 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
September 5 - 26,           7   Principal Highway Engineer,
1990                            Transport Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
August 31 -                 4    Principal Highway Engineer,
September 25,                   Division Chief, consultant,
1993                            specialist
October 4, 1993
Supervision
November 3 - 20,             1   Principal Highway Engineer       HS            HS
1993
January 8 -                  8   Task Manager, Highway            HS             S
February 5, 1994                 Engineers (2), Resettlement
Specialists (2), Training Expert,
Disbursement Officer, Urban
Planner (consultant),
Resettlement Specialist
(consultant)
April 26 - May 31,           7   Task Manager, Highway            HS             S
1994                            Engineer, Resettlement
Specialist, Division Chief, Senior
Counsel, Resettlement Specialist
(consultant), Urban Planner
(consultant)
September 2 - 28,            4   Task Manager, Highway            HS             S
1994                            Engineer, Resettlement
Specialist, Urban Planner
(consultant)
May 24 - June 17,            4   Task Manager, Resettlement        S             S
1995                            Specialist, Sr. Tranport
Engineer, Urban Planner
(consultant)
September 11 -               5   Sr. Transport Engineer, Highway   S             S
October 10, 1995                 Engineer, Public Finance
Specialist, Resettlement
Specialist, Urban Planner
(consultant)
December 6 - 18,             5   Highway Engineer, Infrastructure  S             S
1995                            Engineer, Sr. Transport
Engineer, Resettlement Specialist
(consultant), Urban Planner
(consultant)
January 18 -                 9   Highway Engineer, Public          S             S
February 13, 1996                Finance Specialist, Tranposrt
- 36 -



Economist, Highway Engineer,
Infrastructure Engineer, Resident
Resettlement Advisors (2) , Sr.
Transport Engineer, Urban
Planner (consultant)
May 29 - June 13,            4   Highway Engineer, Infrastructure    S             S
1996                             Engineer, Resident Resettlement
Advisor, Sr. Transport Engineer
September 18 - 22            8   Highway Engineer,                   S             S
and October 2 - I1,              Environment Specialists (2),
1996                             Resettlement Specialists (2),
Infrastructure Engineer, Resident
Resettlement Advisor, Sr.
Transport Engineer
January 28 -                 4   Sr. Transport Engineer, Highway     S             S
February 2, 1997                 Engineer, Infrastructure
Engineer, Resident Resettlement
Advisor
July 7 - 21, 1997            2   Sr. Transport Engineer,             S             S
Operations Officer
November 17 - 29,            4   Sr. Transport Engineer, Highway     S             S
1997                             Engineer, Resettlement
Specialist, Operations Officer
June 25 - July 3,            4   Sr Transport Engineer, Sr.          S             s
1998                             Environmental Specialist,
Resettlement Specialist,
Operations Officer
September 28 -               7   Sr. Transport Engineer, Sr.         S             S
October 9, 1998                  Environmental Specialist,
Resettlement Specialist,
Transport Economists (2) , Road
Safety Specialist, Operations
Officer
February 23 -                5   Sr. Transport Engineer, Sr.         S             S
March 12, 1999                   Environmental Specialist,
Resettlement Specialist, Road
Safety Specialist, Operations
Officer
June 28 - July 3,            4    Sr. Transport Engineer, Sr.        S             S
1999                             Environmental Specialist,
Resettlement Specialist,
Operations Officer
November I - 5,              4    Sr. Transport Engineer,            S             S
1999                             Procurement Specialist,
Resettlement Specialist,
Operations Officer
April 17 - May 3,            5    Sr. Transport Engineer, Sr.        S             S
2000                              Environmental Specialist,
Resettlement Specialist,
Operations Officers (2)
October 2 - 10, 16 -         5    Sr. Transport Engineer,            S             S
21, 2000                          Resettlement Specialist,
Operations Officers (3)
March 15 - 24,               6    Sr. Transport Engineer,            S             S
2001                             Resettlement Specialists (2),
E4ineer, Economist, Financial
Operations Officer



ICR
November 30 -                8    Sr. Transport Engineer, Sr.        S             S
December 14,                      Transport Specialist,
2001                              Resettlement Specialist, Sr.
Enviornmental Specialist,
Operations Officer,
Resettlement Officer, Social
Development Specialist,
Financial Management
Officer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              220.1                        605.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                     32.8                       109.0
Supervision                             371.4                      1,480.8
ICR                                       10.1                        32.2
Total                                    634.4                     2,227.1
- 38 -






Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H  O SU OM    O N   * NA
N Sector Policies                      O H  O SU *M    O N   O NA
N Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
N Institutional Development            0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
N Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      * N   O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction              O H  O SU O M   O N  * NA
N Gender                         O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
0 Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
N Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N 0 NA
N Public sector management             0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please-specify)               0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
- 39 -






Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6 1 Bank performcnce                                Rating
FI Lending                                           OHS OS       OU    OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS       O  U  O HU
M Overall                                            OHS OS       O u   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
X Preparation                                        O HS * S     O u   O HU
2 Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S     0  U  0 HU
z Irnplementation agency performance                 O HS * S     0 U   O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS Os       O u   O HU
- 40 -






Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Analysis of Vehicle Operating Costs on Rural Roads, Revised Working Paper. DFID and MoT.
October 1999.
*   "Project Completion Report-HRPl", PMUI, February 2002.
*   World Bank Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports.
- 41 -






IBRD 23160
150                                 -     070 ~~~~~~ib1080
SON GA              -                          -<  H           NG     H
Q21M               uD                                                                                 210
-~~----              HooBinl, ~~    HAI HUNG 
HA SON  ~      H
PEOPLE'S--        \   >,g                   \<Nin\BhNHBinh-
HaN,~  '~  B/NH              Gulf of Tonkin
Quan HoaN                            n
200 DEMOCERATIC:                                 7 H                     VIET NAM                     20t
REPUBLIC    y     \       _       t    ,    ,          HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
~~~ \~~        Thonh Ho  O
/ / f } fSam Son              PROJECT ROADS
MAIN ROADS
*            Js---- " \                 I IRAILROADS
X   Nghia Don                               .      RIVERS
NG       H    ,      h                              _      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
CO\                                                  - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-190                                                                                                   190
Th,s mop hos been prepored
by   T o. IWohd Bnh'   n   Do Ltf f                                   2,5   5pt  7,5   100 KILOMETERS
of r_oders ond a for the
,ternol ooe of The World Bonk
Group  Th. denom tot.ons ..ed
ond the bo-odor-- shown-
on th  mop do not mply, on the
port of Th. World Ronb Group,
any 1.dgment on the bgol_
stotos of ony ttrr.tory or any
endorsemetnt or ooceptonce of  
ouch boondoroco     1050           rO Do Nang  960                1070                   1080
1050 I                                   106\
n.                                                    1 'H  A N I
THAILAND ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~on Nguog/LE        X    G    Xn                  <    t 
CAMBODIA      |    )                            \
DONG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI THAP
__________________________Long Xuy_nM                                   y   Tho       Vung T n
~ ~O*~f CHINA
1>  Area of map                                  V 
LAOTR
PEOPLE'S      i~TnId
/ientiane                                                                                            1
THAILAND              N a ng
AMBODIA
Plinam Penk  ,-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ac rosSea
aCity
Ghlf of Thoiland  Are ap                                                         0       25        5
*         ~~~~~South Cinai Sea                                                   K 0ILOMETERS
APRIL 1993






_,   O Knmng  >_ C H I N A  r; 7  H    /   CHINA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-P                          p'  I'A S '_2,N>
DEMOCRATIC~~~~~~~~~4            Y9     "''T NM..            ' TAIA
.VIET
\ALAYSIA
LAO   PEOPLE' I                     NsRn
s2'                                                                                     20O
VIET NAM
-131-- NATIONAL ROADS
OTHIER ROADS
RAILROADS
RIVERS
SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
* NATIONAL CAPITAL
4   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
PORTS
INTERNATIONAL BOJNDARIES
;      Sav=nTohe  Q    Dog H=  ooz
THAILAND           N D  'i_       -,')\
15'
15~~~~                        ~~~~~~~~~'  \  )  ' (S 
; > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~g             rT-$
(                                      /      To 5lung Ireo ,9i        t
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HIi //1/\ t~
Q       A NI-
GA~~~~~~~~~~~
(         <  t   ~CAMBODIA                   %'T       bu 
7/IA 'I ANt                    0    ST   lOT  ST  SOT  25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 KDETER H
a                                            Too Too  a<c  L   T-
FRY , =                                               lIT'n5  A
Of                    I       aS
THA 11A ND               M.                           50   100  150  200  250 (110MUERS
thh muS h< b"N pmd by h. Wmh * .4 . h 1U.,_9.   i   |  o   f o~~~~5  100  1 5D MILlES_
> h. oNf NIWC ol d_s =i b hw bw inmmol ww of rh Wo   L  /~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~110






IMAGING
Report No.:        23840
Type:     KCR



