Page  1
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2549 VN
                 (Highway Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                  SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 1, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2549 VN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 1, 1993, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF VIET NAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
Page  2
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport or any
successor thereto;
      (b)   "PMU 1" means the project management unit established
within MOT to administer works in the Borrower's National Highway
1A, including procurement of goods, works and services, project
accounts, preparation of financial requests, project reports and
supervision of contract management;
      (c)   "Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan" means the
Borrower's action plan, dated October 6, 1993, satisfactory to the
Association, for carrying out the resettlement and rehabilitation of
the Project Affected People, as may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
      (d)   "Project Affected People" means any person who prior to
June 1, 1993, for the segment of the Highway 1A from Hanoi to Vinh,
who prior to August 20, 1993, for the segment of the Highway 1A from
Ho Chi Minh City to Can Tho, and who prior to the date of completion
of the socio-economic survey for any other segments of Highway 1A to
be selected pursuant to Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, has
ordinarily been residing, or cultivating land, or carrying on any
trade, occupation, or work in the areas under Part A of the Project,
and who would be displaced from his/her usual habitat, trade,
occupation or work due to the carrying out of the Project;
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (f)   "State Bank of Viet Nam" means the central bank of the
Borrower, and any successor thereto.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred twelve million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 112,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank,
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association,including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
Page  3
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15,
commencing April 15, 2004 and ending October 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOT
Page  4
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, road maintenance, financial and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
              (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
             (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
              (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
             (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
             (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
Page  5
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 of
each year, commencing in calendar year 1994, exchange views with the
Association annually on Viet Nam's development strategy for the
transport sector, including planned investments and related
policies.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Governor of the State Bank of Viet Nam of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            State Bank of Viet Nam
            49 Ly Thai To Street
            Hanoi, S.R. of Viet Nam
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   VIETBANK                      412248 NHTWVT
                   Hanoi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of
Viet Nam, as of the day and year first above written.
                         SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Page  6
                         By /s/ Cao Sy Kiem
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:
      (a) under Parts A.1
          and A.2 of
          the Project           56,600,000      87%
      (b) under Part A.3        16,280,000      100%
          of the Project
(2)   Goods                     11,320,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
(3)   Consultants'              16,280,000      100%
      services and
      training
(4)   Unallocated               11,720,000
      TOTAL                    112,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)  on accounts of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be made in respect
of Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after January 1, 1993; and
Page  7
      (b) on account of payments made for expenditures in respect of
Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the
construction and rehabilitation of segments of Highway 1A under Part
A of the Project, other than the segments of Highway 1A from Hanoi
to Vinh and from Ho Chi Minh City to Can Tho, to be selected
pursuant to Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, until the
Association shall have been furnished and found acceptable the
documentation provided in Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services not
exceeding $200,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(a) raising economic efficiency and supporting economic recovery in
Viet Nam, through upgrading critical segments of the national
highway network; (b) introducing modern road technology; and (c)
strengthening its highway maintenance capacity.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: National Highway Rehabilitation
1.    Construction and rehabilitation of selected segments of
Highway 1A, including about 280 kilometers from Hanoi to Vinh and
about 150 kilometers from Ho Chi Minh City to Can Tho, including
road ways structures and embankments, and a clear zone on either
side of the highway as required for its rehabilitation and
maintenance, and provision of technical services for construction
and rehabilitation supervision.
2.    Improving the ferry crossings for Highway 1A at My Thuan and
Can Tho, including the provision of about four new 200-ton ferries
and rehabilitation of about 10 existing ferries, related equipment,
upgrading of approach routes and terminals, and provision of
technical assistance on traffic management, ferry utilization,
operational efficiency and construction supervision.
3.    Resettlement and rehabilitation of the Project Affected
People, including, provision of house plots, housing, building
materials, utilities and civic facilities, access roads and
training, and the administration, monitoring and evaluation thereof.
Part B: Institutional Development
      Strengthening the institutional and operational capacity of
MOT through:
1.    Provision of training equipment and materials; road
maintenance, traffic control and safety equipment, and weigh-
bridges; communications equipment for ferries; laboratory and design
equipment; and office equipment and supplies for the PMU 1.
2.    Assisting in the implementation and preparation of road
investment and maintenance projects, through provision of technical
assistance in such areas as project management, accounting and
auditing, feasibility and engineering studies, and maintenance
capacity improvement.
3.    Undertaking studies of road management and maintenance;
planning, design and constructions standards for roads and bridges;
and road safety and traffic enforcement.
Page  8
4.    Training of MOT's staff, within and outside of Viet Nam, in
transport economics and project management, and road administration,
maintenance, engineering, operations and technical specialties.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    Bidders for civil works under Part A.1 of the Project shall be
prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Socialist
Republic of Viet Nam may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C: Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works under Part A.3 of the Project may be carried out
by force account.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  9
Part E: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to all contracts, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.  For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
A.    Project Management
1.    The Borrower shall, through MOT, maintain the PMU 1 with
functions, powers, responsibilities and funding satisfactory to the
Association, staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.    The Borrower shall, through MOT:
      (a)   carry out the studies provided for under Part B.3 of the
Project in accordance with terms of reference and timing
satisfactory to the Association; and
      (b)   carry out the training under Part B.4 of the Project in
accordance with a training program satisfactory to the Association.
B.    Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.    The Borrower shall ensure that the resettlement and
rehabilitation of the Project Affected People shall be carried out
in accordance with the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan,
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.    To that end, the Borrower shall, by March 31, 1994, prepare
and furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a plan
for monitoring the effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of
resettlement and rehabilitation of the Project Affected People, and
thereafter, implement such plan in a manner satisfactory to the
Page  10
Association.
C.    Selection of Segments of Highway 1A
      The Borrower shall select additional segments of Highway 1A
for construction and/or rehabilitation under Part A of the Project
on the basis of economic, engineering, environmental and social
criteria acceptable to the Association.  For such purposes the
Borrower shall, prior to finalizing the selection on any such
segments, through MOT, furnish to the Association for its
concurrence all the technical, economic, engineering, environmental
and social documentation and data that the Association shall so
require, including a detailed additional Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Plan for the Project Affected People, if that be the
case.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
Page  11
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
Page  12
