Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13046-RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
APRIL 11, 1995
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit of Currency = Ruble = RR
Rubles per US Dollar
Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange/Foreign Exchange Auction Market (VEB) rate
Period Average       End of Period
1991                        62                  169
1992                       221                 415
1993                      1018                1247
1994
I Quarter               1591                1753
II Quarter               1877                1958
III Quarter              2165                2347
IV Quarter               3194                 3388
1995
I Quarter               4311                4899
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
toe     = ton of oil equivalent                    MW       = megawatts
BCM     = billion cubic meters                     TCM      = trillion cubic meters
MCM    = thousand cubic meters                     tonne    = metric ton (tonne - 1,000 kg)
kWh    = kilowatt-hour
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CIS     -        Commonwealth of Independent States
CPI     -        Consumer Price Index
EA      -        Environmental Assessment
EIRR    -        Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR    -        Financial Internal Rate of Return
FSU     -        Former Soviet Union
GAAP   -         Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GAAS   -         Generally Accepted Auditing Standards
GDC    -         Gas Distribution Company
GEF    -         Global Environment Facility
GDP    -         Gross Domestic Product
GKI    -         Goskomimuschestvo (State Committee for Management of State Property)
GHG    -         Greenhouse Gases
ICB     -        International Competitive Bidding
IS      -        International Shopping
JSC     -        Joint Stock Company
LIB     -        Limited International Bidding
LPG     -        Liquified Petroleum Gas
MOFE  -          Ministry of Fuels and Energy
OECD   -         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIU     -        Project Implementation Unit
RESF   -         Russian Energy Savings Foundation
SCADA -          Supervisory Control and Data Aquistion
TA      -        Technical Assistance
USAID  -         U.S. Agency for International Development
VAT    -         Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
CONTENTS
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY   ......................................  iv
I. THE MACROECONOMIC  SETTING    ...................................   1
II. THE ENERGY  SECTOR   ......                      ......................1............... 
A. Energy Resources, Production and Exports  ...........................   1
B. Energy Consumption   .........................................   2
C. Energy Prices, Taxes, and Subsidies   ...............................   3
D. Energy and the Environment  ....................................   3
E. Organization of the Energy Sector and Structural Reform    ..................   3
F.  Foreign Direct Investment   .....................................   4
G. Bank's Role in the Energy Sector  .................................   5
III. GAS SUBSECTOR                     ....................................5 
A. Gas Resources, Production and Exports   .............................   5
B. Natural Gas Demand   .........................................   6
C. Gas Balance  ...............................................   8
D. Institutional Setting.    ................                                                                8
E. Development Plan ...............  9
F. Issues ...............  10
IV. LESSONS LEARNED FROM EARLIER BANK INVOLVEMENT ....                                               ...........  13
A   Relevant Experience ...........                     ..............................    13
B   Lessons Learned  .            ..........................................    14
V. INSTITUTIONS               ................................................    15
A. Organization and Management  ..................................    15
B. Legal Status . ..............................................  17
C. Accounting Systems .........................................    17
D. External and Internal Audits ....................................    18
E. Financial Situation and Prospects .................................    19
This report is based on the findings of Preappraisal (September 1993) and Appraisal (March/April 1994) missions led by
Gary Stuggins, Task Manager (EC31V). The report was prepared by Gary Stuggins and Peggy Wilson (EC31V), with
contributions from Paul Gallagher, Pentti Aro, Jackie Jamsheed (EC31V), Ahmed Jehani (LEGEC), Henri Beaussant, Bent
Svensson (IENOG), John Stoddart, Ivan Whitting, Charles Morse, Leo Manzi. El Oliker, Steven Diener, and Jack Habart
(Consultants). Claude Blanchi (ECAVP) and Marc Blanc (EC3DR) provided operational guidance. The Division Chief and
Deparument Director are Jonathan C. Brown and Yukon Huang.



- ii -
VI.   THE  PROJECT    ................................................                                                                                               21
A.  Project Objectives   ..........................................                                                                                     21
B.   Project Description                  .........................................                                                                     21
C. Project Cost Estimates  .......................................   22
D.  Financing  Plan    ............................................                                                                                     24
E. Insurance ................................................  25
F.   Project Management and  Implementation   ............................                                                                              26
G. Procurement ..............................................  27
H.  Disbursement   .............................................                                                                                        30
1. Environment .............................................  32
J.   Monitoring  and  Supervision   ....................................                                                                                32
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION   ...............                                                           ......................   33
A.  Projected  Gas  Demand    .......................................                                                                                   33
B.   Least-Cost Supply  Analysis   ....................................                                                                                 34
C.  Project Justification  and  Benefits   .................................                                                                            35
D.  Economic  Sensitivity  Analyses   ..................................                                                                                37
VIII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION AND RISK ANALYSIS  ........                                                                       ..             ............  38
A.  Projected  Profitability  and  Rate  of Return    ...........................                                                                       38
B.   Financial Sensitivity  Analysis   ...................................                                                                              40
C.  Risk  Analysis  and  Management  ..................................                                                                                 40
D.  Cash  Flow   and  Financing  Considerations  ............................                                                                           42
E.   Financial Covenants   .........................................                                                                                    43
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...................  43



- jjj_-
ANNEXES
Annex 2-1 Russia Energy Balances, 1990-1993
Annex 3-1 Russia - Gas Balance
Annex 3-2 Decree on Privatization of the Gas Distribution Subsector
Annex 3-3 Principles of Gas Pricing
Annex 5-1 Russian Energy Savings Foundation - Charter, Regulation and Organization
Annex 5-2 Decree on Arrears in the Energy Sector
Annex 6-1 Description and Cost of Energy Efficiency Projects
Annex 6-2 Draft Terms of Reference - Technical Assistance
Annex 6-3 Details of Project Cost Estimates
Annex 6-4 Implementation Plan
Annex 6-5  Extracts from the Draft Environmental Assessment Summary
Annex 6-6 Development Indicators
Annex 6-7 Supervision Plan
Annex 7-1 Economic Analysis
Annex 8-1 Financial Analysis
Annex 8-2 Risk Analysis
Annex 8-3 Pro Forma Financial Statements
MAP IBRD No. 25919R






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         The Russian Federation
Beneficiaries:    Volgograd Gorgas, Local District Heating and Power Utilities.
Amount:           US$106.5 million
Terms:            Currency Pool Loan for 17 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending:        The proceeds of the loan directed toward gas distribution rehabilitation would be
onlent to Volgograd Gorgas with an amortization period of 17 years, including 5
years grace. The energy efficiency component would be onlent to municipal district
heating and power utilities with an amortization of 10 years, including 3 years
grace. Funds onlent would carry an interest rate equal to the Bank lending rate plus
a premium of 250 basis points.
Objectives:       The principal objectives of the project are to increase the efficiency of energy use
in Russia, to improve the efficiency and safety of gas distribution, and to support
policy reforms in the gas subsector. The project is expected to have both direct
impact in the targeted cities and indirect impact elsewhere in Russia through the
demonstration of technological and managerial principles.
Description:      The project consists of three components: (a) gas distribution  network
improvements; (b) energy efficiency investments; and (c) technical assistance. The
gas distribution network investments largely focus on metering, cathodic protection,
and pipe replacement. Energy efficiency investments would focus on replacement
of outdated and inefficient equipment. Technical assistance is designed both to
support project implementation and to advance the government's reform program.
An initial program aimed at greenhouse gas reduction, and financed under the
Global Environment Facility, is also linked to the project.
Benefits:         Direct project benefits arising through metering and through support of energy
efficiency investments include opportunities to: (a) increase availability of low-cost
gas for export; (b) defer investment in new gas supply; and/or, (c) displace
petroleum products or coal in domestic markets, with resultant benefits in terms of
environmental impacts and energy export opportunities. The investments in gas
distribution rehabilitation would yield benefits in terms of increased economic life
for network assets, as well as reduced investment costs through improved control
and planning. The acquisition of leak detection equipment would also help to
improve safety and reduce leakage of methane into the atmosphere.
Risks:            While it is expected that all project components would generate strong economic
returns and acceptable financial returns, risks are not inconsiderable. Risks faced



- v -
by the project include those associated with equipment prices, gas price reform,
macroeconomic uncertainties, changes to taxes, and efficiency of implementation.
The risks are being addressed explicitly through up-front actions and conditions, a
mid-term implementation review, consulting assistance, and a twinning arrangement
with a foreign gas distribution company.
Project Cost:
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Component               Local    Foreign   Tota1'    Foreign as   Component as
% of Total   % of Total
Distribution System Rehabilitation
Metering                             6.1       22.5      28.6           79              22
Control & asset preservation         6.7       12.9      19.6           66              15
Energv Efficiency
District heat & cogeneration         6.3       58.0      64.3           90              49
Technical Assistance
Implementation TA                     -         1.5       1.5          100               1
Twinning/training                    0.5        1.5       2.0           75               2
Technical support                     -        12.0      12.0          100               9
GHG Reduction Initiatives (GEF)      0.5        2.8       3.3           85               3
Total                               20.2      111.2     131.4           85             100
Notes:   Discrepancies may occur due to rounding.
al Costs include 20% physical contingencies plus an average yearly price contingency of 2.3%
Financing Plan:
(US$ million equivalent)
Financing1Source             Local      Foreign         Total      % of Total
I.B.R.D.                               -        106.5        106.5              81
G.E.F.                                 -          3.2          3.2               3
Bilateral Sources                      -          1.5          1.5               1
Gas Distribution Companies          13.4            -         13.4              10
Other Local Companies                6.8            -          6.8               5
Total                               20.2        111.2        131.4             100
% of Total                           15            85          100
Note: Discrepancies may occur due to rounding.
Economic Rate
of Return:        38 percent
Poverty
Category:          Not Applicable



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
I. THE MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1.1   Following the collapse of the former Soviet Union (FSU) in late 1991, the Russian government
launched a radical program of economic reform to replace the remnants of the command economy with
a market-oriented economy based on the private ownership of property. From the beginning, this effort
took place in decidedly unfavorable conditions and, while results have been mixed, there have been
significant achievements in a number of specific sectors.
1.2    A great deal was accomplished during the period 1992 - 1993 to move Russia toward a market
economy. Prices have been liberalized, and there have been major shifts in relative prices, especially for
the critical energy and service sectors. Privatization has led to a rapid transfer of state assets into private
hands. Foreign trade has been substantially liberalized. Finally, enterprises are making decisions
increasingly on the basis of commercial criteria. Macroeconomic problems have persisted, but can be
largely traced to structural distortions that were inherited from the past. These distortions are being
addressed and progress is being made in rectifying them, but full adjustment must be regarded as a long-
term process. In the near term, various political factions are likely to express, and occasionally impose,
alternative paths for development. However, it is expected that Russia will continue to move toward a
market economy, both as a result of existing momentum, and for lack of a feasible alternative.
1.3    Within this evolving pattern of development, key sectors will have a direct positive impact at the
macroeconomic and microeconomic level. Energy is one such sector, and within energy, the gas
subsector is critical.  Gas is the primary source of fuel in the domestic market, and in 1993 accounted
for approximately 20 percent of foreign exchange earnings. The proposed Gas Distribution Rehabilitation
and Energy Efficiency Project, the subject of this report, is consistent with the goals of sector and
macroeconomic reform and recovery. The project would demonstrate the potential for short-term supply
enhancements by improving the efficiency of gas utilization, while supporting Russia's sector-reform
programs in the areas of price, structure, commercialization at the enterprise level, and reduced adverse
environmental impact.
II. THE ENERGY SECTOR
2.1    Energy is estimated to account for 15 percent of Russia's GDP, 11 percent of industrial
production, and 50 percent of its convertible foreign exchange earnings. Rapid stabilization of the overall
economy is unlikely to occur unless macroeconomic reforms are paralleled by energy- sector reform and
recovery.
A.    Energy Resources, Production and Exports
2.2   It is estimated that Russia has 10 percent of the world's oil reserves, 33 percent of natural gas
reserves, 10 percent of hard coal reserves, and 20 percent of the world's brown coal reserves. Its
capacity to generate electric power ranks second in the world. Russia is the second largest energy
producer in the world, accounting for about 14 percent of total commercial energy production. Despite



- 2 -
having one of the world's most energy intensive economies, Russia has been able to export over 25
percent of its total production, making it the largest exporter of energy. Energy exports, primarily of
oil and gas, represent almost 50 percent of Russia's current exports to non-Commonwealth of Independent
States (CIS) countries, thus providing critical foreign exchange.
2.3    Maintaining productive capacity and developing unexploited energy reserves will require massive
investments. Annual capital requirements for oil and gas alone, merely to stabilize existing production
levels, are probably in the excess of US$10 billion.  Funds are no longer available to meet these
requirements, however; and the future prospects for the sector are grim. Output of energy is now falling
in all energy subsectors. Crude oil output is down more than 45 percent from its 1988 peak and has been
declining at an annual rate of about 15 percent for the past three years. This decline must be viewed as
catastrophic if sustained for another year or two. Natural gas production, which had steadily increased
over the past several years, declined by over 3 percent 1993, and is estimated to have fallen by a similar
percentage in 1994. Production of coal has also been declining by approximately 10 percent each year,
indicating a deepening crisis in this subsector as well. Finally, Russia's electricity-generating capacity
has only been adequate owing to a drop in consumption of about 6 percent per year. Without this
contraction in demand, the poorly maintained power plants and ageing asset base would be inadequate.
Data on Russia's energy production and net exports for the years 1990 to 1993 are contained in Annex
2-1.
2.4    Energy exports in 1993 consisted of: natural gas, estimated at 51 percent; oil and petroleum
products, 42 percent; coal, 5 percent; and electricity, 2 percent (based on tons of oil equivalence).
Natural gas is expected to become increasingly important, in both export and domestic markets, because
of its environmental attractiveness. As a result, the strategic value of gas to the Russian economy
requires special attention.
B.    Energy Consumption
2.5    Data on consumption of commercial energy in Russia for 1990 through 1993 are presented, by
type, in Annex 2-1. Energy consumption decreased by 12 percent between 1990 and 1993, from 1,121
million tons of oil equivalent (mtoe) to 984 mtoe. The largest declines were in the coal sector (23
percent) and petroleum products (32 percent). Gas consumption remained relatively constant during this
period (as interfuel substitution has taken place in the interim). In 1993, gas accounted for about 55
percent of domestic consumption', petroleum about 18 percent and coal 17 percent. The remaining 10
percent was largely primary electricity supply (nuclear and hydroelectric power). While gas volumes
were down in 1993 relative to 1990, the share was 6 percentage points higher. The prospects for
continued increases in market share for natural gas are good because of its relative price advantages and
favorable environmental impacts.
2.6   Inefficient energy use is prevalent throughout the Russian economy. In 1992, Russia's energy
use per unit of GDP was 14 times that of Japan, 8 times that of the United Kingdom, and 5 times that
of the United States. This problem has since worsened, with considerable decreases in economic output
and only modest decreases in energy consumption. Russia's inefficient energy use stems from a
combination of factors, including an emphasis on energy-intensive industries, widespread use of inefficient
and outdated equipment, prices that discourage efficient use of energy, and an absence of metering.
I /   Includes gas used in thermal power generation and in petrochemical production.



- 3 -
2.7    The potential for the economic rationalization of energy consumption in Russia is substantial.
The government has initiated a program of reforms to address this prospect encompassing: (a) energy
price adjustments, through liberalization of pricing mechanisms, reduction in subsidies and reduction in
export constraints; (b) preparation of draft legislation on energy conservation; and, (c) establishment of
the Russian Energy Savings Foundation (RESF) to encourage energy efficiency investments.
C.    Energy Prices, Taxes, and Subsidies
2.8    Significant adjustments have been made to relative energy prices over the past three to four years.
In 1991 energy prices were less than 10 percent of estimated market levels. By early 1995, domestic gas
prices to industrial and commercial customers had reached approximately two-thirds of estimated full cost
recovery, and domestic prices for petroleum products were at similar levels. Electricity prices varied
among regions, but were typically around 60 percent of full cost recovery on sales to industry. Energy
prices to households, however, have risen at a more gradual rate. The government has justified the
slower increase in household prices in light of the slow adjustment in labor prices, the absence of an
effective safety net and the resultant concerns over household ability-to-pay for energy. Given that the
poor typically spend a disproportionate share of their income on energy, this approach is acceptable until
an adequate safety net is established.
2.9    Taxation of oil production has been prohibitive. This policy has resulted in financial losses by
producing enterprises, and sharply curtailed investment. Petroleum tax rates are very high, and, since
they are based on revenues rather than profits, are insensitive to the variations in production and
operating costs across the sector. Financial support has been extended to the sectcr through direct budget
transfers, as is the case for coal, or through subsidized credits, which have been granted to the oil and
gas subsectors. Overall, there is a pressing need to continue to rationalize energy prices and reform
taxes; however, these policies entail far-reaching macroeconomic and structural implications. Recent
actions on tax reforms and reductions in subsidized credit have improved the situation considerably.
D.    Energy and the Environment
2.10   Russia's current environmental problems are serious and widespread, and result from past policies
that set performance targets in quantitative terms and did not place an economic value on the
environment, lack of environmental legislation, standards and management systems, and pricing policies
that undervalued natural resources. Russia's energy inefficiency, in both production and end-use, not
only accelerates the depletion of economic resources, but also represents a prime cause of pollution and
of natural resource degradation. Price reform, coupled with investment in more efficient technologies,
would help to correct this problem, and the government is therefore actively pursuing initiative in both
of these areas. Furthermore, environmental legislation is being steadily improved, both in terms of
establishing standards and enforcing their implementation.
E.    Organization of the Energy Sector and Structural Reform
2.11   Prior to 1990, energy was fully integrated into the FSU's national plan. The sector was managed
by central government ministries and by subsector or branch ministries. This centralization of authority,
together with the lack of coordination among those central ministries with authority over energy
subsectors, stifled commercial and operational initiatives in the sector and led to the pressure to
decentralize.



- 4 -
2.12   Russia's energy sector is undergoing structural reform to ameliorate these problems. Goals of
the reform package include reduced state intervention, the promotion of competition, and a strong,
independent private sector. Since 1991, progress has been made regarding each of these objectives.
While policy matters remain under the jurisdiction of the ministries, branch ministries were converted
to large state-owned enterprises, which were to address commercial and operational matters for each
subsector. The new enterprises included: Rosneftegas, with jurisdiction over crude oil production;
Glavtransneft, crude oil transport; Rosnefteproduct, oil product transport and distribution; Gazprom, non-
associated gas production, transmission, storage and export; Rosstrojgasifikazia, gas distribution2; Ugol
Rossii, coal; and Rossenergo, electric power. Although distanced from the ministries, these state or
national concerns were wholly owned by the state and were still formally accountable to them. Selected
activities came under newly established committees rather than state concerns; for example, oil refining
under the Refining Committee within the Ministry of Fuel and Power, and oil exploration under the State
Committee on Geology (the former Ministry of Geology).
2.13   Following the creation of the state concerns, a period of further decentralization of control over
the sector began, which was fostered by certain parts of the reform movement in Government that
promoted competition. Other factions in the government, however, regarded this development as
potentially disruptive during a time when stability in energy supplies was vital, and thus argued for a
slowdown to the decentralization process. By and large, the Government has acceded to the latter
proposal.
2.14   As of the present, all of the state energy enterprises have been converted into joint stock
companies (JSC's). This is beneficial in that it sets the stage for corporatization of the enterprises along
coommercial lines and for their ultimate privatization. At the same time, a controlling interest in each of
the new JSCs is to be retained by the state. For the most part, administrative responsibility for the state's
shareholdings has been placed in the hands of a few centralized holding companies, which are themselves
either wholly owned or effectively controlled by the state. Privatization has entered a new phase in which
the government intends to sell its remaining equity stake in profitable enterprises at a price that would
provide a reasonable return on its original investment. This project is designed to further this objective
(see para 6.8).
F.     Foreign Direct Investment
2.15   Foreign direct investment in Russia's energy sector can make a critical difference: in funding;
in transferring technology; in promoting a competitive environment; and in transferring managerial skills
appropriate to a market economy. To date, however, the energy sector, like the rest of the economy,
has had little success in attracting major foreign investment. Investors have attributed this to the absence
of an accommodating legal and fiscal framework, to institutional uncertainties, and to understandable
confusions during a period of major transition. An important factor often mentioned by potential foreign
investors in the energy sector is the conflicting signals they receive from Russia; in the end, the investors
are not persuaded that their investments are welcomed.
2/     With the exception of Moscow and St. Petersburg, which were the responsibility of Mosgas and
Lengas, respectively.



- 5 -
G.    Bank's Role in the Energy Sector
2.16   The Bank's energy strategy in Russia has been to support sector reform and recovery through
direct assistance to the Russian authorities in designing their reform program and in developing a focused
program of energy lending. The Bank assigned high priority to the oil and gas subsectors owing to: (a)
the potential to attract significant inflow of foreign investment capital; (b) their potential to generate
foreign exchange through exports; (c) the potential impact on the fiscal deficit through adjustment of
domestic prices and rationalization of taxes; and, (d) the prospect of an early impact on sector revenues
and export earnings.
2.17  Identification of suitable projects for lending has proceeded in parallel with technical cooperation.
The US$1 billion project to support urgently required oil production rehabilitation in western Siberia is
effective and procurement is advancing favorably. A second oil production rehabilitation project has also
been approved for which procurement is well advanced. Other projects in the oil subsector have been
identified including: (a) a joint venture for new field development; (b) a refinery restructuring investment;
and, (c) oil transport. In the gas sector, Gazprom, the entity responsible for production and transmission,
has been able to attract financing from other sources, leaving the Bank to focus on gas distribution and
energy efficiency investments.
2.18   The Bank has broadened its energy sector dialogue with the government to include other
subsectors, such as power and coal.3 Lending to the energy sector could range between US$500 million
and US$1 billion annually for the next several years. As indicated in the most recent Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), the energy sector is expected to be a major focus of Bank lending, accounting for
roughly 40 percent of new commitments during the FY93-97 period. In particular, the CAS recognizes
that developments in the energy sector are critical to Russia's export prospects over the next several years
and therefore to the viability of the external financing program. In all cases, the highest priority would
be assigned to designing a lending program that would act as a catalyst to private sector investment.
Once the macroeconomic framework stabilizes and an acceptable investment framework has been
established, the Bank's relative role in Russia's energy sector should decline significantly, giving way to
private funding. The proposed Project is fully consistent with the Bank's policy objectives in the recent
CAS and represents a priority use of Bank resources in assisting the transformation of the Russian
economy.
111. GAS SUBSECTOR
A.    Gas Resources, Production and Exports
3.1    As of the beginning of 1993, Russia's gas reserves were estimated at 48 trillion cubic meters, 33
percent of l; e world's reserves. Gas production was 617 billion cubic meters (BCM) in 1993, down 3.5
percent from 1992, giving a reserve-to-production ratio of 78 years. The majority of production takes
place in western Siberia: in 1992, the Urenguoy field produced 288 BCM and Yamburg produced 178
BCM. Although associated gas production has typically been about 6 percent of total gas production,
it is estimated that a further 3 percent could be recovered by recapturing flared gas. In 1993, gas exports
from Russia included 65 BCM to Western Europe, and 36 BCM to Central Europe. Russian gas accounts
for 90 percent of the total with the remaining 10 percent transited through Russia from Turkmenistan.
3/     A portion of the Bank's first technical cooperation project (TCP) in Russia, approved by the Bank's
Board of Directors in September 1992, was allocated to coal.



- 6 -
Compared with 1992, 1993 exports to Europe were up 5 percent. Exports to cther FSU republics,
however, fell by approximately 25 percent (from 106 BCM to 79 BCM), mainly owing to economic
restructuring and payment problems. Initial figures for 1994 indicate a further 3 percent growth in
exports to Western Europe, and a 10 percent increase in sales to Central Europe. Exports to FSU
republics in 1994 were at approximately the same level as in 1993.
3.2    Fields now in production are expected to meet demand through most of the remainder of the
decade, as gas consumption in the FSU continues to be rationalized. The Yamburg field alone has the
potential to deliver another 60 to 80 BCM/yr, roughly equivalent to the level of Russia's current exports
to Western Europe. Step-outs from the existing fields will also keep the cost of gas supply low for the
near to medium term. Russia's large unexploited fields (Yamal and Shtokmanskaya in the Barents Sea)
are remote and present considerable environmental problems. Postponing the need to mobilize these
resources would enable Gazprom to further address the environmental problems associated with the new
fields.
B.    Natural Gas Demand
3.3    Export Markets: Although the export market during the early 1990's has been relatively weak,
gas demand outside Russia is expected to rise in the medium to long term. Forecasts of exports of
Russian gas prepared in 1992 indicated an 8 percent overall decline between 1992 and 1994, with a
gradual levelling off and beginning recovery after 1997. The decline was dominated by a sharp drop in
exports to FSU countries. (see table in Annex 3-1). Preliminary 1994 data indicate continued growth
in gas markets in Central Europe, and a slower but steady increase in Western European demand.
Markets in the FSU countries remain weak, however. Russia is a major source of natural gas for Central
and Western European markets, and is viewed as the single most important source for future gas supplies.
Alternative sources of gas, which include Algeria, Iran, the North Sea, and the Central Asian Republics,
each face transit problems. Russia, however, has the potential to supply a significant portion of the
expected growth in European gas markets, and at competitive prices, as low-cost gas becomes available
from the rationalization of existing domestic markets and the capture of flared associated gas. Assuming
sufficient transmission capacity, Russia could expect not only to maintain but also to increase its share
in the European markets. Indications are, however, that transmission capacity may be a growing
constraint. The main transit route is through the Ukraine, and there are continued allegations that the
Ukraine is appropriating transit gas for its own use, in order to make up for Russian cutbacks in
deliveries to Ukraine as a result of payment arrears. Alternative routes through Poland/Belarus are being
explored, and would require in the order of US$5 billion in investment. At present, however, the
financing and the international ownership/operating agreements needed to develop this corridor are not
yet in place.
3.4    Domestic Market: Gas has been capturing an increasing share of the primary energy market in
Russia, displacing coal in the 1970s and petroleum products in the late 1980s. With coal and oil
production decreasing, gas continues to increase market share, nearing half of Russia's total primary
consumption. This trend is expected to continue as gas-based power generation increases, both for cost
and environmental reasons. Although fuel oil is currently the least cost fuel in some power plants, this
is expected to change when oil refineries are upgraded to rationalize the product mix and surpluses of fuel
oil decline.4 In the residential market, gas is also expected to replace some of the current LPG
4/     Refineries in Russia are of a simple configuration, producing much less of the lighter products than the
market would dictate and an excessive proportion of fuel oil. With the liberalization of petroleum product
(continued...)



-7-
consumption.
3.5    Overall, the domestic energy market is expected to contract over the next three to five years
owing to: (a) the general economic decline in Russia; (b) a shift away from heavy industry towards a
more services-oriented economy; (c) new investments in more energy-efficient technology; and, (d)
investments in energy efficiency in existing industries. Many of these changes have started to occur as
a result of energy price adjustments, and the active role taken by the government in support of energy
efficiency investments. Gas consumption in Russia is forecast to decline by 20 to 30 percent from the
1992 levels as a result of restructuring and efficiency gains. This decrease could be offset to a degree,
however, if gas takes the place of other fuels in industrial and commercial markets.
3.6    As illustrated in Table 3-1, most of domestic gas consumption has been in electric utilities,
including combined heat and power plants (44 percent) and in boilers (19 percent). Use in transmission
is also substantial at 12 percent of the total. Gas consumption in the commercial and residential sectors
(7 percent) is relatively low because much of the space and water heating demand is met by district
heating facilities.  Consumption in households and many commercial enterprises is not metered.
Households are charged fixed rates based on norns which are related to the types and number of
appliances, the number of occupants, and the physical size of the dwelling. Unmetered commercial
consumers are charged based on type of activity and the equipment they operate. Normns are adjusted
periodically. Adjustments are proposed by the gas distribution companies (GDCs), based on the
difference between quantities received at the city gate and quantities billed to metered customers.
Changes to the norns, however, require local government approval prior to implementation.
Table 3-1
Total Natural Gas Consumption in Russia, 1993
BCM             Perent
Industry and Construction               41.4               9.4
Electric Power Utilities                193.5            43.7
Boilers                                 83.0             18.8
Residential and Commercial              31.0              7.0
Agriculture                               1.8             0.4
Gas Transmission                        54.4             12.3
Non-Energy Use                          24.6              5.6
Losses and Unaccounted For               12.9             2.9
TOTAL                                  442.6 -,-,
3.7    Of the 48 million households in Russia, 43 percent (20.5 million households) are supplied with
4/(... .continued)
prices, refineries are expected to make investments to rationalize the product slate, thereby decreasing the fuel
oil available for power plants that would be replaced, in turn, by natural gas.



- 8 -
natural gas. Ninety percent of these are located in urban areas. Piped and bottled LPG are supplied to
3.3 and 13.3 million households, respectively, in areas where natural gas is not available.5 Residential
use of natural gas is mostly for cooking, while both space and water heating needs are generally met by
district heating, especially in urban areas. Average household consumption, at 865 cubic meters per year,
is therefore significantly lower than in other countries where gas is used directly for heating. However,
although no statistical information exists on the specific consumption, it appears that residential gas
consumption for cooking is about 300 m3/yr, that is, three to four times the usual figure of western
countries.6
3.8   In the absence of meters, the incentive for individual residential customers to reduce their
consumption to more acceptable levels is absent. At the same time, because the cost of excessive or
wasteful consumption is spread among all customers through the norms, customers who would prefer to
reduce their consumption, and hence their gas cost, are unable to do so. The lack of an incentive to
reduce consumption is further reinforced by heavily subsidized prices to residential customers, whose
monthly gas bill in mid-1994 averaged in the order of RR 144 (approximately US$0.07) - less than 1 %
of the minimum wage.
C.    Gas Balance
3.9   In general, the government has strongly supported gas exports both because of the higher
net-backs and the access to foreign exchange. As a result, gas is supply-constrained in Russia during the
peak winter months. This situation is expected to change considerably in the near to medium term as
both export and domestic markets evolve. Gas availability is expected to increase as a result of the
collapse in the markets of the FSU. This would lead to Russia's gas supply becoming demand-
constrained in the foreseeable future (see Annex 3-1), a situation that has already been manifested in the
summers of 1993 and 1994, when Gazprom was unable to find markets for gas that was available for
production. Hence, it is expected that many of the gas-supply projects that are planned for the late 1990s
will be deferred, and Gazprom will start to develop enhanced supply to the domestic market, including
gas storage to help meet winter peaks.
D.    Institutional Setting
3.10   Gazprom: Gazprom dominates the natural gas industry in Russia. Its monopoly on non-associated
gas production, gas transmission, storage and gas exports makes it the largest gas company in the world.
In addition, through the system of gas allocation, it strongly influences the Russian gas market. The scale
of Gazprom's operations, its financial strength, its control over domestic gas supply, and its access to
'oreign currency, combine to make it a dominant entity within the energy sector. Its contribution to
economic stability in a turbulent period of economic restructuring is an important and well recognized
factor. Through the range of its activities, and its direct access to the Council of Ministers, Gazprom
is able to strongly influence sectoral national policy, encroaching significantly on the role of the Ministry
of Fuel and Energy and probably other branches of government as well.
3.11   Gazprom was formed in 1991 as a state concern when the former ministry structure was
dismantled and the major branches of the energy sector were formed into separate entities with greater
5/     Does not include Moscow and St. Petersburg.
6/     In Western Europe, specific gas consumption for cooking averages between 70 and 100 m3/yr.



- 9 -
autonomy from the government. Although Gazprom has experienced two major changes in its reporting
structure, it has retained virtually the same internal organizational structure. Gazprom is strongly
managed from the center, at least at the strategic and policy-making level. This may be explained in part
by the central control of the financial resources of the enterprise, including control of foreign currency
and funds for capital investment. Gazprom became a joint stock company in February 1993 and its
shareholding is evolving. The government was to retain a 40 percent ownership for at least three years.
The remaining 60 percent was to be issued to employees (15 percent), to ethnic minorities in the Yamal-
Nenetsk region (5 percent), to Rossgazifikazia (I percent), and sold through a check-auction to citizens
across the country (29 percent). Provision was also made for Gazprom to sell 10 percent directly to
investors, including foreigners, in order to raise cash for development.
3.12   Rosstroigazifikazia (Rossgaz): Rossgaz, like Gazprom, was established in 1991 as a state concern
when the previous ministry structure was disaggregated. It was responsible for gas distribution, acting
as the intermediary agent between Gazprom's gas transmission companies and industrial, commercial and
residential customers in the regions. Rossgaz operated through 71 gas distribution companies (Oblgas)
at the regional (Oblast) administrative level. Each Oblgas in turn operated through a number of city and
district gas companies (Gorgas and Mejraygas, respectively). Some of these companies, typically those
located in industrial cities, were jurisdictionally independent gas companies; most of the companies
located in small towns and rural areas were simply departments of the Oblgas, however.
3.13   Under the technical cooperation agreement with the government, the Bank was asked to finance
a study on the commercialization and privatization of the Russian gas industry. The results of the first
phase of this study, presented in Moscow in September 1992, recommended that Rossgaz be de-
monopolized into separate, independent gas distribution companies (GDCs) and that its contracting arm
be split off as an independent company. In December 1992, the government issued a decree setting this
process in motion (for details, see Annex 3-2). By March 1993, a regulation was established to define
the process. GDCs were given the option of either 40 percent or 51 percent employee ownership, while
the remainder of the shares were to be held by the federal, regional and local Governments based on a
formula included in the regulation. The first GDC joint stock companies (JSCs) were formed in June
1993; by December 1993, this process was almost complete. Effectively, the management and
operational responsibilities formerly executed by Rossgaz have been transferred to the new JSCs, leaving
Rossgaz with an as yet poorly defined coordinating role. Recently, however, a twinning arrangement was
established between Rossgaz and the American Gas Association which may be fruitful in establishing a
vision for its role in Russia's evolving gas sector.
E.    Development Plan
3.14   Development plans for the gas sector in Russia have changed considerably in the recent past as
a result of privatization and the financial health of gas utilities. As gas utilities are established as JSCs,
they have become much more careful with their proposed capital budgets, cutting back proposed
investments to address only urgent needs. Gazprom has limited financing for system expansion owing
to a shortage in funds. As a result of the contracting market, GDCs are able to focus on system
rehabilitation rather than expansion. In addition, GDCs are focusing on investments that would enable
them to make the transition to commercially operated businesses by installing metering and billing on the
basis of consumption. These investments are expected to ultimately free up gas for export by inducing
energy efficiency investments (from both the supplier and the end-user).
3.15   Gazprom currently envisions the need to develop the Yamal gas field and had requested Bank
assistance in financing this project. The Bank did not actively pursued this project on the basis that: (a)
gas markets in Russia are expected to continue to contract; (b) gas consumption in other FSU republics



- 10 -
has decreased considerably (particularly in the Ukraine); (c) flared gas and dome gas in oil fields could
increase gas supply by about 20 BCM/yr; (d) gas markets in Western Europe are expected to grow more
slowly, in the near term, than originally anticipated; and, (e) gas consumption in Gazprom's compressor
stations will decrease as they are replaced with more efficient units. Therefore, the Bank has proposed
an investment strategy that combines energy efficiency investments, rehabilitation of the gas networks,
and debottlenecking the existing export corridors to increase foreign exchange earnings. Gazprom is
actively exploring the possibility of establishing a major gas-export corridor through Belarus and Poland.
Because the development of the corridor would be a joint effort by entities in Poland, Belarus and Russia,
this route is expected to face fewer problems than those faced by the existing gas transit route through
Ukraine (although Gazprom is also actively pursuing investments in the Ukraine corridor). Together,
these investments could increase supply to Western Europe at a relatively low cost by debottlenecking
the existing pipeline system.
F.     Issues
3.16   There are four main issues that are central to the development of the gas sector within Russia,
and also to the success of the proposed project. These are: (a) the commitment on the part of the
government to an ongoing program of price increases; (b) the potential to increase the efficiency of gas
use in the country; (c) the format for regulation of the industry; and, (d) the ability of GDCs to function
as privatized corporate entities. Although these may be regarded as separate issues, in fact there are
strong interrelationships among them, as discussed below.
3.17   Pricing: Gas prices in Russia prior to 1990 enabled full cost recovery to the gas sector with the
exception of gas prices for households. As the exchange rate deteriorated and inflation rose rapidly, gas
price adjustments lagged. In January 1992, many prices were liberalized, but energy prices remained
heavily subsidized. During 1992, the price of many energy products were adjusted faster than inflation
with the notable exception of gas. However, gas prices caught up (in relative terms) to prices of other
fuels during 1993, with industrial prices at year-end nearly 20 times the level at the end of 1992, and
household prices about 7 times higher.
3.18   Since mid-1993, gas prices to industries have been adjusted monthly in line with domestic
inflation (see Table 3-2). Gas prices to households were theoretically to be increased every six months
with inflation. However, although several draft decrees were put forward to increase residential prices,
no adjustments were implemented until March, 1995, when Resolution 208 was adopted raising prices
by a factor of ten to RR 20,000/MCM (RR 16,260/MCM excluding VAT and special tax). At the same
time, the Government adopted a resolution which would devolve responsibility for setting residential gas
prices to the regional administrations. It is expected that this action will help to ensure more timely
adjustment of residential gas prices, and also to ensure that prices are more reflective of the cost
structures of the local gas distribution companies.
3.19   Given that gas is market-constrained (see para 3.9), the basis for pricing in the Russian market
should be the cost of supply. As the sector moves to commercial operations, it is recommended that
price-setting be based on financial principles, with full removal of input subsidies. (See Annex 3-3 for
a more detailed discussion of pricing principles.) As a result, gas prices to city gates would depend on
location because of the considerable component of gas transport in the total cost of supply. The cost of
supply to the city gates, assuming full cost recovery on the existing system at international cost levels,
is estimated to be about US$25-US$35/MCM. The incremental cost of supply to industries would add
about $3-5/MCM, putting estimated March 1995 gas prices to these customers at approximately two-
thirds of their target level based on current market exchange rates. Based on estimated purchasing power
parity exchange rates, the March gas prices to industrial customers are very close to their target level.



- 11 -
Table 3-2
Summary of Gas Price Adjustments, 1990 to 1995
(Rubles and US$/MCM - excluding VAT & Special Tax)
Industrial/Commercial                      Residential
Effective
Date                 Wholesale            Retail           Wholesale            Retail
RR      US$1/      RR      US$"       RR      US$,/    RR        US$"
1990                  40    36.03        50    45.04        40    36.03        50   45.04
1991                  40      1.00       50      1.25       40      1.00       50     1.25
1992 (Jan-Apr)       206      1.04      260      1.31      206      1.04      260     1.31
1992 (May-Dec)       940      7.64     1,100     8.94      206      1.67      260     2.11
1993 (Jan-June)    3, 600     7.44    4,000      8.26      300       .62      600     1.24
1993 (July 1)      7,900      7.71    9,000      8.78      600       .59    1,667     1.63
1994 (Jan 1)      22,041     15.26   25,110    17.39       600       .42    1,667     1.15
1994 (July 1)     44,093    21.76   50,231    24.79        600       .30    1,667      .82
1994 (Oct 1)      55,020    18.07   62,679    20.59        600       .20    1,667      .55
1995 (Jan 1)      72,529    18.80   82,626    21.42        600       .16    1,667      .43
1995 (Mar 1)     93,4002/    21.23   106,400    24.19    7,000      1.59   16,260     3.70
" 1992 - 1995 figures converted based on exchange rate prevailing at the time the price change became effective.
2/ Estimate based on prior months' inflation rates.
3.20   Because the assets of the existing gas system were originally financed by budget transfers from
the government, most Russian gas companies are profitable at current prices. While recent residential
prices have failed to cover the financial costs of service, residential sales are typically a small part of the
GDCs' sales. Margins on industrial sales are generally sufficient to offset these losses. However,
because future investments will be financed on commercial terms, gas prices to households will need to
be increased to maintain financial viability. Gas prices to industries are expected to reflect the full cost
of supply by the end of 1995. Prices to residential customers are expected to be adjusted more gradually,
reflecting households' limited ability to pay. The current target is to reach full supply cost pricing to
households by 1998. This position is viewed as acceptable, as long as the gas utilities remain financially
viable without input subsidies. The Bank is now assisting the government to establish a safety net for
the poor that would ensure that they could afford at least a lifeline level of utilities. Once this has been
established, increases in gas prices to households can be accelerated.
3.21   Proposed financial covenants for the project reflect the principle of financial viability by requiring
that future investments are financed under commercial borrowing terms and through internal cash
generation. Returns on capital employed would also be adequate to attract equity participation by private
investors within two to three years. Given their current financial position, GDCs can be financially
viable with gas prices to industries reaching full cost by December 1995 and gas prices to households at
about one third of their estimated full cost of supply. The proposed energy pricing study (see para 6.8)
will address other details of gas pricing including seasonality, gas allocation, long-term gas contracts, spot
pricing, and interruptible supply contracts.



- 12 -
3.22   Efficiency of Energv Use: As noted earlier, the efficiency of energy use in Russia is extremely
low. As a consequence, energy which might either be sold into export markets or left in the ground to
serve future needs is consumed wastefully in domestic markets. Limited pipeline and storage capacities
are also engaged in serving domestic markets when they might be better directed toward exports. Energy
efficiency investments would also increase industry's ability to pay, thus helping to address a growing
interagency accounts receivable problem (see para 5.26). Finally, increased energy efficiency would help
mitigate the impact of energy use on the environment.
3.23   The first prerequisite for energy conservation, price adjustments, continue to take place. Current
energy prices have already made a number of energy efficiency investments attractive with payback
periods as low as a few months. The single biggest constraint impeding the implementation of these
investments is the availability of capital. Financial markets in Russia are in disarray with a limited equity
market and a modest capacity to meet local debt financing needs. Financial sector reform is being
addressed separately, and is expected to help mitigate some of these problems. However, studies have
indicated that energy efficiency investments are not made unless returns are exceptionally high (at least
40 percent and typically higher). As a result, projects that are both economically and financially
attractive in Russia are expected to languish unless a proactive initiative is undertaken to promote such
investments.  Therefore, it is recommended that the already established Russian Energy Savings
Foundation (RESF) be used to ensure that these projects are encouraged through a combination of studies,
project preparation, information dissemination, and assistance to the government in administering the
onlending under this project.
3.24   The structure and mandate of the RESF are outlined in paragraphs 5.7 to 5.11. Although the
agency is generally considered capable of acting to support energy efficiency investments, some
institutional upgrading and support would need to be undertaken to ensure the project's success (see para
6.26).
3.25   Regulatorv Structure: There is a natural tendency toward monopolistic agencies in the business
of gas transmission and distribution.  The high cost of entry, the economies of scale in system
development and operation, and the spatial characteristics of supply networks discourage free competition
for markets among alternative suppliers. Some competition may be introduced by opening supplier access
to transmission pipelines, and by allowing local distribution companies to negotiate purchase contracts
with these alternate suppliers. Within the city gates, however, interfuel competition is more likely to
occur than competition among different gas distributors.
3.26   Within this climate, regulation is important to protect customers from monopolistic pricing. It
is equally important to protect the transmission and distribution companies, with their large fixed-asset
bases, from pricing controls that might jeopardize their ability to earn an adequate rate of return to
maintain and expand their system, and also to protect them from predatory actions by competitors. The
government has taken initiatives in this regard, introducing a draft law on natural and state monopolies,
with the assistance of foreign consultants. The draft law addresses the need to regulate gas markets, from
both the federal and regional perspectives. The Government has agreed to review the appropriate legal
and regulatory framework for the gas distribution subsector as part of the proposed Energy Pricing and
Privatization Studies, and to prepare an action plan to improve the regulatory framework .
3.27   Of more immediate concern, from the perspective of the viability of the gas distribution
subsector, is the issue of predatory competition. Over the past year, the gas transmission company
(Gazprom and its subsidiaries) has begun approaching some of the large customers that were being served
by local gas distributors and offering to provide direct supply. A number of customers have accepted
this offer, with serious repercussions to the profitability of the GDCs. If this practice persists, the GDCs
would lose a measure of their ability to cross-subsidize the unprofitable residential service through



- 13 -
revenues from industrial supply (see para 3.21). In addition, because the outlook for demand growth is
generally weak, the GDCs will be obliged to amortize their largely fixed costs over a smaller number of
units sold, with adverse impacts on their financial performance. The Government's recent resolution to
devolve responsibility for setting residential gas prices to the local administrations (see para 3.19) will
provide some protection to the financial viability of the GDCs, since it will facilitate adjustment of
residential prices to reflect the actual cost structure and customer mix of the distribution company.
3.28   Corporatization and Privatization of the Gas Distribution Sector:  The rapid pace at which
Rossgaz has been subdivided into a number of JSCs is an encouraging beginning to the corporatization
and privatization of the gas distribution sector. The next major steps will include shifting the orientation
of the companies' management and operating philosophies toward customer service and profit and cost
management, and generating a stream of projected earnings sufficient to attract equity capital. Achieving
these objectives would allow the state to divest their shares in the companies at a price that adequately
compensates them for their past investments. The government has requested support for a study to
identify the next steps in the privatization process, with a view to the ultimate full privatization of the
GDCs. Funds for the study are included as part of the technical assistance component of this project (see
para 6.8).   The corporatization program  would be advanced under the project through the
twinning/training arrangements with a foreign GDC (see para 6.13).
IV. LESSONS LEARNED FROM EARLIER BANK INVOLVEMENT
A      Relevant Experience
4.1    The first Bank loan to the energy sector in Russia was the Oil Rehabilitation Project (Loan
number 3623-0, approved in 1993). It is too early to draw many general lessons from this loan with
regard to Bank involvement in the Russian energy sector. Within two months of the project being
declared effective, over 50 percent of the initial bids had been evaluated by the borrower. This was an
unusually fast response to procurement, and reflected the borrowers' commitment to the project and the
intensive effort on procurement during project preparation. However, since that time, numerous delays
have arisen, many of which can be attributed to the lack of Borrower experience with Bank financing and
international procurement, and to ongoing changes in the political and economic environment. As a
result, actual disbursement on the project has been slow with almost 90 percent undisbursed as of the end
of February 1995.
4.2    The Bank has approved loans for natural gas development in a number of other countries with
a view to increasing its supply and commercial utilization. Lending for gas projects has increased in the
recent past because of its low environmental impact.  Project success is largely a function of the
commercialization of the executing agency. Strategies for achieving this objective include the following:
*     separating the government's policy and regulatory role from the commercial role of enterprises
*     stimulating private sector interests in exploration and production of gas
*     mobilizing external financial resources
*     introducing a rational gas pricing policy.
4.3    The Bank has also financed energy efficiency investments, and provided support for the
development of energy efficiency programs in a number of countries: Peru, Portugal, Hungary, Tunisia,
Indonesia, Yugoslavia, and India. Hungary (1983, 1986, and 1989) is the closest model, where
financing was made available through the Energy Efficiency Office of the National Bank of Hungary
(which was set up under the first loan) to finance subprojects in energy efficiency. The first two loans



- 14 -
were generally successful because of the government's interest in promoting energy efficiency and
because of central control which facilitated implementation. The third project was less successful, in part
because the uncertain economic climate in Hungary during the transition period served to discourage
investments.
B      Lessons Learned
4.4    Although there is considerable scope for attracting equity investments for exploration and
development projects for oil, only limited foreign risk capital has been available for gas projects
worldwide, particularly where the gas is to be sold on the domestic market. As a result, as a lender of
last resort, the Bank has provided financing for gas transmission and distribution projects in a number
of countries.
4.5    Lessons learned from gas transmission and distribution projects and from energy efficiency
projects include the following:
*     The Bank often limits itself to the introduction of covenants to ensure the financial viability of
transmission and distribution companies. Poor pricing policies, however, have also led to a lack
of counterpart funds, delaying the implementation of some projects. Rational pricing policy
targets for natural gas pricing and indexation formulas should be agreed as conditionality up
front.
*      A strong government commitment to institutional change is essential. A long-term view is
needed, given that all of the goals of institutional development will not be achieved within the
time span of one project.
*      Experience also shows that project implementation hinges on the availability of a well-organized
project unit to act as a counterpart.
*      Experience from other projects has shown that implementation and procurement is improved
when the number of institutions involved in a project are minimized and definitions of project
components are precise.
*      Training should be approached from the perspective of the entire institution so that the quality
is enhanced all round and the benefits are sustained.
*      Implementation of energy efficiency projects has been mixed, but appears to have required
incentives or impetus beyond that of simple a-ailability of commercial funds.
4.6    These lessons have been incorporated into the current project. The Bank has established ongoing
policy dialogue with the government regarding pricing and institutional reform. Although energy price
adjustments lagged early on, considerable adjustment has taken place since the beginning of 1993. The
government's commitment to reforms has been demonstrated both on the pricing issue and on institutional
reform, with gas distribution becoming demonopolized and joint stock companies established. The
employees of Volgograd Gorgas, one of the beneficiaries under the project, have elected for a 51 percent
ownership stake, indicating their resolve to make their company profitable. At the same time, Volgograd
Gorgas has demonstrated an awareness of the risks and responsibilities inherent in the project, and a
commitment to proceeding quickly.  Training for their staff will be accomplished through a
training/twinning arrangement, established through co-financing from bilateral resources. This training
will address all aspects of corporate management and operations. Finally, past failure to disburse lines



- 15 -
of credit for energy efficiency investments is being addressed by pre-identifying and reviewing a number
of subprojects, by offering competitive financing terms, and by involving the government agency
responsible for energy efficiency in the implementation process.
V. INSTITUTIONS
A.    Organization and Management
5 1    The general organization and management of Volgograd Gorgas, and of the Russian Energy
Savings Foundation (RESF) which would administer the energy efficiency onlending process, are outlined
in the following sections. Additional detail is provided in Annex 5-1.
Volgograd Gorgas
5.2    Volgograd Gorgas distributes natural gas and LPG to customers in the city of Volgograd, a city
of approximately 1 million persons located 900 km southeast of Moscow. The company delivers
approximately 3.6 BCM of gas annually, with more than 90 percent being consumed by industrial plants
(75 percent of sales go to 32 large industrial customers). Typically, a Gorgas sells up to 50 percent of
its gas for power generation, but most of the electricity in the Volgograd area is supplied by large
hydroelectric generating stations and therefore the Gorgas does not have a large power plant in its
customer base.
5.3    Day-to-day management of the organization is directed by a Management Committee consisting
of the general director, the chief engineer, the deputy general director in charge of procurement, and the
heads of planning, accounting and gas distribution and payment. The company has approximately 1,000
employees. These workers are now among the best paid in the city, and there are no vacancies and
limited turnover. The relatively high pay levels have also enabled the company to recruit qualified
graduates in engineering and other disciplines; this had not been possible in the past.
5.4    Prior to September 1993, gas distribution in the region was the responsibility of Volgograd
Oblgas, which operated through 17 subregional operating groups. Each of these operating groups chose
to become a separate independent JSC under privatization. The largest unit, Volgograd Gorgas,
submitted its application for JSC status along with the others in September 1993. Although the federal
authorities approved the application almost immediately, there was a long delay before final approval was
given by the local authorities. Local approval was given in early April 1994 and registration was
completed on April 14th. Employees hold 51 percent of the shares of the company, with the remaining
49 percent of shares allocated to federal (29 percent) and municipal (20 percent) authorities. The rights
of the shares allocated to the federal authorities will be passed first to the local GKI (Goskomimuschestvo
- State Committee for Management of State Property) and then to the Oblgas.
5.5    The initial Board of Directors of the joint stock company consists of the general director as
chairman, a representative of the municipality, the general director of the Oblgas representing the block
of federal shares owned by GKM, an elected member of the Duma and an employee representative. The
shareholders are to elect a new board at a general meeting to be held within twelve months of becoming
privatized. No consideration has yet been given to future dividend policy although senior management
believes that the best policy would be to reinvest all profits for the first three years.
5.6    The Gorgas's senior management is generally competent, positive, forward-looking and attuned
to future demands and challenges. British Gas has discussed with the senior management the main areas



- 16 -
in which a twinning/training arrangement would assist its future development, and has taken the initial
steps in implementing the twinning relationship. The management is enthusiastic about such a scheme,
and the Gorgas is likely to benefit substantially from the opportunity to expand its perspective. Details
of the expected scope of the twinning arrangement are set out in Annex 6-2.
Russia Energy Savings Foundation
5.7    The Russian Non-budgetary Inter-branch Energy Saving Foundation (RESF) was established under
Order 107a of the Ministry of Fuel and Power, dated August 3, 1992, pursuant to the Russian
Govemment Decree number 371 on energy conservation, dated June 1, 1992. The agency is intended
to operate at both the regional and federal level, through Regional Non-budgetary Energy Saving Funds
as well as through the Federal Non-budgetary Foundation. Copies of the organization's charter and
regulation are attached as Annex 5-1.
5.8    The mandate of the organization is to assist in implementing the government's policies on energy
efficiency, specifically addressing issues that affect multiple sectors. Its envisioned activities include:
(a) financing scientific studies, drafting of norms and regulations, and working on standardization of
energy consumption; (b) providing equity financing to assist in implementation of energy efficiency
measures; (c) providing financial support to the development of the manufacture of energy saving and
energy efficient equipment and materials; and, (d) providing preferred credit to small and medium energy
saving projects which meet specified technical and economic criteria.
5.9    The organization of the RESF is shown in Annex 5-1. The management group includes the
chairman, two vice-presidents (of technology and economics) and four department heads (of projects and
appraisals, regional programs, loans and finance, and external relations). There are also 11 sector
branches which focus on the needs of specific sectors or functions. Total staff complement is about 35,
of whom 25 are full time and the remainder perform their functions on a part time basis along with
regular jobs in the various ministries. There are also approximately 30 consultants or "experts" working
under contract. In addition, 12 regional centers have been established, consistent with the concept of
regional energy savings funds. The latter are independent of the RESF, but have a representative on the
RESF Board. The Board of Directors also consists of the chairman of the RESF, the vice-presidents and
the department heads.
5.10   Overall control and direction is provided by a Council of Observers, which is composed of
representatives from the Ministries of Economy, Finance, Science and Fuels and Energy. The Council
is intended to endorse basic strategy and policy, and audit one or two major projects per year to ensure
that the RESF meets its objectives.
5.11   Originally, the RESF was to be financially independent of the budget, with funding coming from
a number of sources including special taxes, fines and other assessments. The legislation to implement
the various funding mechanisms for the agency was introduced in the Duma, but was left outstanding
when the Duma was dissolved in late September 1993. At present, the future of the legislation is in
doubt. In the interim, funding has come mainly from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and other
ministries. In 1993, the RESF spent about RR 0.5 billion, primarily on research and development. The
proposed 1994 budget is for RR 22 billion for both R&D and capital projects.' Current operating
expenses for staffing, consultants and overheads are RR 20 million/month (based on late 1993 salary
levels).
7/     The large increase in the R&D and capital budget is attributable in part to an eight-fold inflation during
1993, and also to increased commitment of funds from local and foreign sources.



- 17 -
B.    Legal Status
5.12   Volgograd Gorgas is a Russian Joint Stock company, with 51 percent of the shares held by
employees. The legal status of the RESF has been laid out in its charter. The Bank's legal staff has
reviewed this document, and found no barrier to the RESF's proposed role in implementing the project.
The proceeds of the loan designated for the energy efficiency investments would be on-lent directly from
the Ministry of Finance to the beneficiaries, with the RESF acting only in an administrative capacity.
C.    Accounting Systems
5.13   Russian accounting developed as an integral part of the Soviet economic system and is mandatory
in nature, as opposed to being generally accepted. All Russian enterprises utilize the national accounting
systems, which are based on a unified chart of accounts and specified rules for recording all transactions.
A new unified system of accounts was introduced in February 1992, and is being adopted by gas
distribution companies (GDCs).  This system, based partly on international Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP) and arising from a United Nations-sponsored accounting review, is
considered to be an improvement over the previous unified system but still dictates the recording of all
financial transactions based on standardized rules and accounts and not on accounting principles.'
Accrual-based accounting was adopted in principle in 1992 and implementation is currently underway.
At present, however, accounting practices reflect a blend of accrual and cash-based principles.
5.14   Currently, balance sheets are similar to those prepared under international financial standards,
both in structure and in terms of continuity principles. Income statements, however, summarize profits
primarily for tax purposes, and also summarize the distribution of any surplus remaining at year end.
Because the Russian system recognizes revenues and expenses on a cash rather than on an accrual basis,
income statements reflect only the revenues and costs associated with transactions for which payment was
received. A more comprehensive outline of the total value and cost of goods sold during the accounting
period is contained in a separate statement on costs of production, which covers all costs (including
capital costs) incurred during the accounting period. These "parallel" statements more closely conform
to western-style accrual systems, although year-end adjustments to reflect prepayments and accruals are
rare.
5.15   Depreciation is computed and recorded on an individual item basis. Inventories also are recorded
item-by-item (materiality is not an issue under Russian accounting law). Maximum depreciation rates are
specified for various classes of assets. Assets were revalued at the end of 1992 to bring them to 1992
price levels, and again at the beginning of 1994 to bring them to 1993 prices. A similar revaluation has
been decreed to take place in early 1995. Revaluation is carried out only in response to a government
decree, which in turn stipulates the multipliers to be used for different classes of assets and different years
of acquisition. The revaluation in early 1994 raised the value of fixed assets of the gas distribution
companies by an average factor of about 20.
5.16   The accounting system  in Volgograd Gorgas generally provides an adequate structure for
8/     A number of other initiatives in general accounting reform are underway including (a) EU funding of
on-going work in accounting reform by the International Advisory Board (a group of Russian government,
academic and international experts), (b) UN sponsored translation of well known US accounting text books, (c)
the British Council's funding of training courses for 40 accounting trainers, and (d) World Bank funding of
training programs.



- 18 -
maintaining project accounts. Records are maintained locally, and the law requires that all transactions
be appropriately documented. The Gorgas is in the process of automating their accounting systems,
although the process is hindered by a lack of finances, trained staff, and appropriate software. Most
Russian accounting software is poorly designed, and with the volatility of the Russian chart of accounts,
quickly out of date. Thus, the company is developing its own purpose-built software.
5.17   The management infornation systems of Volgograd Gorgas will require improvement since they
have been geared to satisfying the information requirements of the ministries, and not those of internal
management or shareholders. Increasingly, the Gorgas will be required to make strategic decisions which
were previously made by the government. Capital budgeting procedures and criteria will need to be
developed and supported by the information system. Management cost accounting and cash management
will also be important factors which may require modification in the financial information system.
5.18   During discussions with Volgograd Gorgas, it was agreed that financial advisory services would
be provided as part of technical assistance to the project implementation team. Specialists would help
to ensure that project accounting procedures meet the Bank's requirements, provide short term advisory
services in critical areas such as cash management, assist in the preparation of financial statements which
conform to international standards and provide training in international accounting practice. The need
for computer hardware and software to assist them in meeting the financial reporting and control
requirements of the project were also discussed (see para 6.8).
5.19   A  longer term consideration, particularly associated with privatization, will be the need to
reestablish the financial position of Volgograd Gorgas. Current balance sheets are misleading for a
number of reasons. The historic cost basis and arbitrary revaluation of fixed assets results in the serious
understatement of the current economic value of some of the assets, and in the overstatement of the worth
of technologically outdated or obsolete items. The balance sheet also typically contains non-gas assets
(such as social infrastructure). Unrecoverable receivables and obsolete or over-valued assets currently
on the balance sheets will need to be written off. A physical inventory will be required as a prerequisite
to revaluation, with full valuation only possible once a stable fiscal and regulatory framework is
established. These issues will be addressed as part of the proposed privatization study (see para 6.8).
D.    External and Internal Audits
5.20   Enterprises are obliged to submit to the government quarterly income statements, balance sheets
and statements of value and cost of goods sold. Generally, gas distribution companies do not have formal
external audit arrangements.  External audits are only required in the case of foreign joint
venture/subsidiary operations, conmmercial banks, insurance companies, and investment funds. GDCs
are subject to annual tax inspections (compliance audits), however. Tax audits are adversarial and involve
checking that all transactions have been recorded in accordance with Russian law, as well as ensuring that
income, expenditures, depreciation and capital investments have been accurately reflected in the
calculation of corporate taxes due. Internal accounting controls are maintained through the internal audit
department within the GDCs, which typically have two to four staff. (Total accounting staff range from
8 to 18 people.) A typical GAAP audit based on Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) is not
required, and it is not clear what it would entail at this time.
5.21   Currently, more than 2,000 firmns offer independent audit services in Russia, including the major
international firms. Many of the Russian firms, however, also engage in trading and other conmmercial
activities. A more realistic measure of those that solely provide accounting and auditing services would
be closer to 200. The international accounting firms are well established in Russia, some with a large
contingent of Russian accountants and auditors trained in GAAP. Most of the Russian audit firms only



- 19 -
provide accounting and audit services in accordance with Russian statutory requirements. As of January
1994, eight Russian firms have been accredited to audit project accounts on behalf of the Bank.
However, corporate audits based on GAAP are still the domain of the international accounting firms.
5.22   The audit firms in Russia currently operate without license or regulation. While there are a
number of associations of auditors, there is no authorized body responsible for licensing, setting
standards, or promoting the training and development of practitioners. In 1993, the Russian legislature
deliberated on draft legislation for auditing, which defined auditing independence and application,
prescribed licensing and regulatory arrangements, established auditors' rights and duties, and prescribed
the form of the auditor's report. The law was passed through the legislature but vetoed by the Executive
Branch. In its stead, a decree on Temporary Rules for Audit was issued, to become effective on
December 1, 1993. The decree covered much of the same ground but gave the executive branch
considerably more authority and oversight over the auditing industry.
5.23   Volgograd Gorgas has agreed to ensure that their accounts are subject to an annual independent
audit by an external auditor acceptable to the Bank. For purposes of project evaluation, the current
system of reporting and tax audits is considered acceptable. As the application of GAAS becomes more
widespread, the Gorgas will be expected to present its statements in this fashion. The proposed
twinning/training program should assist in this regard as financial staff gain experience in European and
North American utility accounting principles and practices.  Volgograd Gorgas has examined the
possibility of appointing external auditors, but at present, cost is a deterrent. As the audit industry
expands, and the distribution companies accumulate revenues, annual GAAP audits are likely to become
routine, and even mandated by the shareholders.
5.24   Reporting requirements were discussed with Volgograd Gorgas, and the company has agreed to
fiurnish to the Bank:
(a)    financial statements, within three months of the end of each fiscal year;
(b)    audited project accounts, beginning with the account for fiscal year 1995, within six
months of the end of each fiscal year;
(c)    audited financial statements (including a qualified restatement in accordance with GAAP
if required) showing their performance and position beginning with fiscal year 1995,
within six months of the end of each fiscal year; and,
(d)    by October 1 of every year, a copy of the budget for the next financial year, clearly
indicating how the financial targets can be met.
E.    Financial Situation and Prospects
5.25   Volgograd Gorgas was profitable in 1993 and, based on preliminary estimates, was also profitable
in 1994. The program of sustained increases in industrial gas prices, together with reasonable control
over cost of production, has enabled them to show net profits and a reasonable return on revalued assets.
Sunmmaries of financial performance in 1992 and 1993 are contained in the pro forma financial statements
in Annex 8-3. Data from earlier years have not been provided because of frequent changes in the chart
of accounts and recording requirements over recent years, and the distorting effects of inflation.
5.26   While the Gorgas performed satisfactorily in 1993, they experienced significant increases in
accounts receivable towards the latter part of the year, which led to corresponding increases in payables



- 20 -
and to reductions in the revenues recorded for tax purposes. The company's effectiveness in controlling
arrears has been less than ideal, with totals approaching the equivalent of three months sales. A listing
of possible steps to redress the accounts receivable problem has been provided to Volgograd Gorgas, and
management has been encouraged to act on these suggestions. Decree No. 307 (April 8, 1994) "on
increasing customer responsibility for payment for fuel and energy resources" also provides a strong
support for addressing the arrears problem, dictating that energy supply is to be curtailed and
subsequently cut off in the event of nonpayment (see Annex 5-2 for a copy of the decree).
5.27   Generally speaking, Volgograd Gorgas has been generous in their payments to employee-
shareholders. Excess payroll tax in 1993 (taxes payable on salaries in excess of four times the minimum
wage) amounted to 30 percent of wages.' In addition to paying high wages, the Gorgas distributed over
70 percent of its after-tax profits in the form of special payments and bonuses to employees. If the
company continues to maintain this rate of supplementary payment, its ability to finance local costs and
debt service under the project would be jeopardized. The company was alerted to this risk, and has since
undertaken initial discussions with their proposed twinning partner, British Gas, on dealing with this
issue.
5.28   Volgograd Gorgas had also adopted the undesirable practice of reducing its depreciation charges
in 1994 to 50 percent of the level allowable under accounting regulations. The rationale is that because
excess payroll taxes must be paid out of after-tax profits, there must be sufficient profits recorded to
cover these taxes. The company's projections indicate that if full depreciation were charged, profits
would not be sufficient. They therefore opted to reduce depreciation charges to maintain their current
wage levels. Analysis of projected revenues and expenses suggests that the company's concerns are
unwarranted. If they were valid, the preferred course of action would be to reduce salaries and/or staff
complements. Again, the company was alerted to the risks in this practice, and were advised that
financial performance would have to be recalculated based on conventional depreciation allowances to
establish compliance with the financial covenants.
5.29   Although the current financial position and outlook of Volgograd Gorgas is generally positive,
it is also apparent that outside agencies can have a significant impact on their financial prospects and
performance. A number of instances were cited in which the regional and/or municipal governments
regarded the profitability of local GDCs as an opportunity to improve the revenues flowing to the budget.
Thus, in some instances GDCs have been denied mandated subsidies (for example, to cover losses on the
distribution of LPG), assigned special "taxes", barred from cutting off non-paying customers, or
somewhat arbitrarily assessed higher corporate taxes and attendant fines. While tax legislation limits the
rates at which local governments are allowed to tax companies in their area, there are a number of ways
in which these governments can influence the companies' financial performance. Thefederal government,
and the Bank supervision missions, will need to monitor the regions' actions and the impacts on the
subsidiary borrowers, as part of its obligations under the loan agreement.
9/     As of 1994, excess payroll tax will be applied at a rate of 35 percent on that portion of salaries which
are greater than six times the minimum wage.



- 21 -
VI. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
6.1    The principal objectives of the project are: (a) to increase the efficiency of gas use within Russia
by upgrading and increasing the use of customer metering and by supporting investments in more efficient
equipment; (b) to reduce gas distribution costs, and maintain distribution system capacity and integrity,
through network rehabilitation; and, (c) to support the government's reform program through technical
assistance. The objectives will be realized both directly through project-financed investments and
indirectly through demonstration impacts.
6.2    More efficient use of gas will increase the availability of energy for export, either by increasing
the supply of exportable gas from existing fields, or by making gas available to replace domestic use of
other fuels, thereby freeing up other energy products for export. Increased gas exports will increase
financial flows to the government, which currently captures approximately 30 percent of the export value.
Increased energy efficiency will reduce the operating costs of domestic gas users, thus increasing their
competitiveness and potentially reducing the inter-agency arrears problem. Increasing the efficiency of
gas use will also have a beneficial effect on the environment, both directly through decreased emissions,
and indirectly by enabling increased substitution of gas for fuels that have a less favorable environmental
impact.
B.    Project Description
6.3    The project was prepared by Volgograd Gorgas and RESF, with the assistance of USAID-
financed consultants. The project includes three main components, each of which comprises several sub-
components. The components are: (a) rehabilitation of gas distribution systems; (b) energy efficiency
investments; and, (c) technical assistance to support the government's reform program and project
implementation. In addition, a companion Global Environment Facility (GEF) project will support
initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions including financing a portion of the leak detection
sub-component. The major project components are briefly described below.
6.4    Rehabilitation of gas distribution system:  This component will be implemented by the gas
distribution company in Volgograd and will include the following sub-components:
6.5    Metering: Under the project, the GDC will purchase approximately 48,000 meters. New meters
will be installed at unmetered commercial enterprises, households, and apartment blocks. Pilot schemes
undertaken elsewhere in Russia have reportedly resulted in decreases in gas consumption which range
from 25 to 50 percent. The replacement of outdated industrial and commercial meters will bring about
improved accuracy in recording consumption. Individual meters will be installed in houses that use gas
for space heating, water heating, and cooking, while commercial-type meters will be installed in
apartment-blocks to allow for billing groups of customers (typically, I meter will correspond to one riser,
i.e., about 20 to 30 customers).
6.6    Asset Preservation:   The preservation of the existing asset value will include five main
investments:  (a) pipeline replacement of about 10 km/yr, located mainly in older sections of the city
where pipelines were laid about 40 years ago; (b) cathodic protection of the entire system, because the
current cathodic protection system is generally ineffective; (c) leak detection and test equipment (partially
financed by GEF) for the detection of gas leaks, because the quality of existing equipment is inadequate;
(d) SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) system, to monitor system pressures and flows,



- 22 -
to initiate changes to match system requirements and to provide better information for operations and
investment planning; and, (e) network modeling tools, to carry out engineering analysis for system
capacity and design.
6.7    Energy Efficiency Investments:  The energy efficiency component will finance the foreign
currency portion of investments that are designed to improve energy efficiency for district heating and
power utilities. It will also provide assistance to end users in evaluating and implementing investments.
Because there are likely to be a large number of subprojects and borrowers, administration and
management of this component of the project will be handled by RESF with the assistance of consultants,
under the supervision of its board. RESF will be responsible for: (a) assisting potential executing
agencies in identifying subprojects and in presenting their technical, economic and financial viability;
(b) appraising energy efficiency investments by municipal utilities (district heating) and power plants and
advising the Ministry of Finance on the feasibility of financing these subprojects; and, (c) providing
assistance and disseminating information to industrial enterprises to evaluate and access commercial
funding for energy efficiency measures. The recommended investments for increased efficiency include,
inter alia: burner replacement and associated controls; boiler replacement at municipal district heating
companies; portable diagnostic instrumentation for power plants and municipal boilers so as to facilitate
better adjustment of the equipment;  automated control systems at boiler plants; and automatic
temperature control equipment and heat energy meters at heating substations.
6.8    Training and Technical Assistance: The project includes a number of technical assistance
components, which will provide support for project implementation, institutional strengthening, and
support for policy development. The technical assistance will include: (a) assisting Volgograd Gorgas
with project implementation; (b) providing ongoing training and support by establishing a twinning
arrangement with a foreign GDC; (c) providing training and technical assistance to RESF staff, focusing
on upgrading and expanding project analysis skills of staff, including investment appraisal and financial
planning and control (project financing, pro forma cash budgets, project monitoring and control); (d)
upgrading the current gas industry standards and construction procedures; (e) preparing a third party
access decree for the gas industry; (f) preparing specific tariff recommendations for gas transport; (g)
preparing recommendations for an energy pricing strategy; (h) preparing recommendations on the
privatization of the gas sector; (i) consulting assistance for a gas law and regulatory requirements; (j)
preparing an overall plan for gas distribution system rehabilitation; and, (k) support for co-ordination
of these studies. Draft terms of reference are included in Annex 6-2.
6.9    Global Enviromnent Facility: The GEF facility will complement this project by financing
studies on gas production, transmission, distribution and utilization to develop an investment program for
reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Projects that would not otherwise be commercially
attractive will then be proposed for financing by the GEF. The study of the gas production and
transmission components will be carried out by Gazprom. The gas distribution component will relate
directly to this project and will provide leak detection equipment and consultants to assist in preparing
a program for methane leakage reduction. The gas utilization portion will also be undertaken in
conjunction with this project; it will include financing for emissions detection equipment, energy
efficiency investments (such as heat energy meters and insulation), and consultants to assist in the
implementation of the energy efficiency improvement program.
C.    Project Cost Estimates
6.10 Total Project Cost: The total project cost is estimated at US$131.4 million. Foreign currency
costs are estimated to be US$111.2 million (85 percent of the total). Table 6-1 summarizes the total
estimated project cost.



- 23 -
Table 6-1
Estimated Project Cost
Local   Foreign     Total    Local   Foreign     Total  Foreign
(% of
---- (in billion Roubles)'-----  --------- (in Million U.S$)-------    tota)
Network up-rade
Metering                      8.1      29.8      37.8       4.6      17.0      21.6     78.7
Asset preservation            8.9      17.2      26.1       5.1       9.8      14.9     65.8
Energy efficiency
District heat & co-          11.0      80.5      91.5       6.3      46.0      52.3     88.0
generation
Technical assistance
Implementation support          -       2.6       2.6        -        1.5       1.5    100.0
Twinning / Training           0.9       2.6       3.5       0.5       1.5       2.0     75.0
Technical support               -      21.0      21.0        -       12.0      12.0    100.0
GHG Reduction Initiatives     0.9       4.9       5.8       0.5      2.82       3.3     85.5
(GEF)
Base cost                    29.8    158.5    188.3        17.0      90.6    107.6      84.2
Physical contingencies        3.4      21.3      24.7       1.9      12.2      14.1     86.2
Price Contingencies           2.1      14.8      16.9       1.2       8.5       9.6     87.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST           35.3     194.6    229.9       20.2    111.2    131.4       84.6
Notes: 1. US$ are converted to Roubles at 1,750 R/$, w1fich was the exchange rate at time of appraisal.
2. Direct allocation from GEF of US$0.4 million is included in the asset preservation component.
6.11   Rehabilitation of the Distribution System:  The estimated total cost of this component is
US$49.8 million, of which the foreign exchange component is US$36.9 million (74 percent of the total)
and the local cost is US$12.9 million (26 percent of the total). The cost estimate is detailed in Annex
6-3. The base cost of this component is estimated to be US$35.2 million (in mid-1993 dollars
equivalent), excluding taxes, duties, contingencies and implementation assistance. The addition of physical
and price contingencies increases this amount to US$46.5 million. Import duties (5 percent on imported
goods) and implementation assistance brings this total to US$49.8 million. VAT has been excluded from
the estimates.'
6.12   Investments in Energy Efficiency: The project feasibility study identified a sample of high-
return, fast-disbursing subprojects in Volgograd plus Ryazan, Saratov and Voronezh, that amounted to
US$50 million. Based on this estimate, US$58 million has been allocated for this component. During
appraisal, three or four subprojects were advanced in each city as examples that could form the basis of
10/    VAT has been excluded because VAT paid on capital assets is recaptured by the purchaser within six
months of the expenditure. In addition, imported equipment is now exempt from VAT.



- 24 -
other investments (see Annex 6-1). The total cost of this component is US$64.3 million, of which the
foreign exchange component is US$58 million (90 percent of the total) and the local costs are estimated
to be US$6.3 million (10 percent of the total). The total cost of the appraised sub-projects is US$19
million, of which the foreign exchange component is US$17 million (89 percent of the total) and the local
costs are US$2 million (11 percent of the total). Import duties (5 percent) apply to imported goods, and
VAT has been excluded from the estimates. It is proposed that the appraised projects identified would
be replicated in a number of cities. This approach would maximize the impact of the project and facilitate
implementation, while keeping costs low.
6.13  Technical Assistance: The estimated cost of the technical assistance components of the project
is US$15.5 million. Of this total, US$1.5 million, covering implementation assistance, is included in the
cost estimate for the system upgrading components of the project (para 6.24). Of the remaining US$14
million, an estimated US$2 million is the estimated cost of the twinning/training arrangement with an
international gas distribution company. An estimated US$2 million is proposed for technical support and
training of the RESF staff, while the remaining US$10 million will be used to finance the other
components of technical assistance outlined in paragraph 6.8.
6.14   Global Environment Facility: The total cost of the GEF component is US$3.7 million which
includes US$3.2 million provided by a global environment trust fund (GET) and US$0.5 million of
counterpart financing for services provided by local organizations to carry out field tests. Of the US$3.2
million GET grant, US$1.8 million will finance the investigation of GHG emissions from production and
transmission facilities, US$0.6 million will be allocated for studies relating to the gas distribution system
and US$0.8 million for the investigation and audit of energy efficiency investments. Further details are
provided in the GEF report No. P13076-RU. Table 6-1 indicates US$3.3 million as the total size of the
GEF component, as US$0.4 million has been allocated to finance a portion of leak detection equipment
of the asset preservation component.
D.    Financing Plan
6.15   The Bank loan to the Russian Federation will be in the amount of US$106.5 million, and will
cover the foreign currency component of the distribution system upgrading (US$36.5 million), the energy
efficiency investments (US$58 million), and the technical assistance components not covered by
co-financing (US$12 million). The loan will be on standard Bank terms with a maturity of 17 years,
including 5 years grace.
6.16   The proposed financing plan for the project is outlined in Table 6.2. Co-financing of US$1.5
million is being sought from various bilateral agencies to finance training for the GDC staff in the areas
of operations, finance and accounting, procurement and management. The training will be implemented
through a twinning arrangement with an international gas utility. Currently, the United Kingdom have
expressed a strong interest in twinning with Volgograd and have sent teams to work with the appraisal
mission to outline the program. The GEF will provide a US$3.2 million grant to develop an investment
program for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Volgograd Gorgas will finance US$13.4 million
equivalent from internal cash generation for local costs.
6.17   The funds for the gas distribution component will be onlent by the Russian Federation through
a subsidiary loan to Volgograd Gorgas. It is proposed that the government add 250 basis points to the
Bank's interest rate in onlending to the GDC to cover credit risks, cross currency risks, and
administrative costs incurred by the Government. Proposed terms for on-lending will be a maturity of
17 years, with 5 years grace to reflect the implementation period of the gas distribution component and
the cost recovery period for metering. Completion of a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement between



- 25 -
the government and Volgograd Gorgas is a condition of loan effectiveness.
Table 6.2 - Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Financing Source               Local       Foreign     Total      % of
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  T otal
I.B.R.D.                                     106.5       106.5         81
G.E.F.                                         3.2         3.2          3
Bilateral Sources                              1.5         1.5          1
Gas Distribution Companies        13.4                    13.4         10
Other Local Enterprises            6.8                     6.8          5
Total                             20.2       111.2       131.4      100%
Percentage of Total               15%         85%        100%
6.18   The funds for the proposed energy efficiency component will be onlent by the Government to
district heating and local power utilities, based on project review and appraisal carried out by the RESF.
Onlending for the sub-projects will be at 250 basis points above the Bank interest rate, with repayment
over 10 years, including 3 years grace. Subsidiary loan agreements will be established between the
government and the authorities who are financially responsible for energy efficiency investments. On-
lending will be in US dollars, with the beneficiaries carrying the ruble-US$ exchange rate risk and the
Government carrying the cross-currency risk. The Government has been asked to direct reflows accruing
from the differential loan terms to support energy efficiency investments. The Government has also
agreed to furnish the Subsidiary Loan Agreements for the energy efficiency subprojects for the Bank's
review prior to signing contracts under these components.
E.    Insurance
6.19   Insurance for goods and services to the point of delivery will be covered under the bids from
suppliers. Historically, insurance coverage for the assets and operations of the GDCs was provided
through budget transfers from the government. With privatization, risk has been effectively transferred
to the GDCs. Like most enterprises in the energy field, GDCs are relying on self insurance, although
there are no funds specifically set aside for this purpose. Instead, a portion of retained profits is set aside
in special funds for capital replacement and maintenance.
6.20   The potential to obtain insurance coverage against asset loss or liability is limited at the present
time. The Russian insurance industry is not well developed, and the more than 900 insurance firms are
generally small and inadequately capitalized. Only a few Russian insurance firms could potentially
provide coverage for the gas distribution systems, although they currently have limited experience in this
area. The cost of insurance coverage could range from 0.5 to 2.0 percent, depending on the state of the
facilities and the risks inherent in the operations. Premiums would likely tend on the higher end, given
the lack of experience and limited knowledge of the current state of the system.



- 26 -
6.21   The issue of asset and liability insurance was discussed with the GDC. It was agreed that the
GDC would continue to follow their current practice of retaining a portion of earnings as insurance
against loss and damages. When the new accounting legislation is implemented and the companies have
more discretion to set up special provisions, a portion of retained earnings will be transferred into an self-
insurance fund.
F.    Project Management and Implementation
6.22   The gas distribution system rehabilitation component of the project will be implemented over four
calendar years, starting in the third quarter of 1995 through the second quarter of 1999. All components
will be launched in the first year of the project. The proposed implementation schedule is shown in
Annex 6-4.
6.23   Gas Distribution Component: A project implementation team will be established in Volgograd
with staff possessing relevant qualifications. A project director will lead the team and will be supported
by a technical manager, a procurement manager, a finance manager and a logistics/administrative officer.
Considering the high educational level of the GDC senior staff and their understanding of the problems
faced by the companies, the preferred option will be to assign existing senior staff to the key positions,
with the chief engineer of the GDC taking the position of project director.
6.24   Considering the GDC's lack of experience with international and Bank procedures, especially with
regard to finance and procurement, it is proposed that consultant support services be provided. In
discussions with the GDC the following consultant skill mix is proposed:
(a)    Two consultants specializing in gas distribution will support the technical manager: the first, a
gas distribution specialist, with expertise in design and implementation of all aspects of gas distribution
networks will provide advice on project implementation and pipeline related designs. The other, with
expertise in metering design and specification, will be required in the early stages of the project.
(b)    A procurement specialist will advise the GDC in all aspects of the procurement process including
the preparation of tender documents, bid evaluations and contracts with suppliers of equipment and
services. The procurement specialist will also recommend institutional changes to strengthen the GDC's
capability to procure from local and international sources.
(c)    A financial analyst will assist the financial manager in establishing project accounting procedures,
in facilitating the preparation of financial statements that conform to international standards, and in
providing general financial advice to the GDC.
6.25   In view of the urgency, it is proposed that consultants be financed under the advance procurement
procedure. The cost for the specialists and support from their headquarters is estimated at US$1.5
million. The twinning arrangements proposed under the technical assistance component of the project
will complement the activities of the consultants. In view of the timing and the fact that the utilities
executing the twinning arrangements may also lack experience in Bank procedures, the twinning is not
seen, however, as a substitute for technical assistance.
6.26   Energy Efficiency Component: RESF will be responsible for evaluating, overseeing, and
administering onlending for the energy efficiency components of the project. During the first year, the
energy efficiency projects will be restricted to the four cities visited during appraisal plus St Petersburg.
In the following year, the geographic scope will be extended to include Nizhni-Novgorod, Samara,
Rostov-on-the-Don, Stavropol, and Vladimir. Pending the findings of a mid-term review, limits on the



- 27 -
geographic scope of the project could be lifted for the remaining years and for projects financed through
reflows. The responsibilities of RESF will include: (a) the review and approval of detailed sub-project
procurement needs (prepared by the district heating companies and local power plants); (b) review and
approval of the proposed execution of procurement activities, review of the economic and financial rates
of return and of the financial viability of the borrower; and (c) control and review of the technical and
financial aspects of sub-project implementation. Based on their review, the RESF staff will submit
qualifying sub-projects to a loan review committee, which will include the agency's board, supplemented
by representation from the Ministry of Finance. Initially, all projects will be submitted to the Bank for
final review and approval. It is expected, however, that once a base of experience has been developed,
the review committee will be authorized to approve projects requiring loans up to US$1 million. A
separate group will be established within the RESF to implement the energy efficiency component of the
project. During the initial phases of the project, RESF will be assisted in both project evaluation and
implementation by consultants to be financed under the institution strengthening component of technical
assistance.
6.27   Two sources of financing will be made available under the project to assist RESF: (a) the spread
between the Bank lending rate and the onlending rate will include 0.5 percent to cover their administrative
costs; and, (b) part of the proposed GEF project on greenhouse gas reduction will be used to finance the
costs of establishing this unit. It is proposed that the debt servicing payments by the executing agencies
be made as two separate components - one of 0.5 percent to RESF and the other to the Government,
excluding the 0.5 percent spread designed to cover RESF's administrative costs. This will provide an
incentive for RESF to undertake an effective follow-up on repayments. The RESF will subrnit cash flow
and income statements on a quarterly basis, detailing how their income was spent. Ministry of Finance
will be responsible for managing repayment of the subsidiary loans, with the assistance of an agency
bank.
6.28   RESF and the Government have agreed that the primary criteria for the viability of sub-projects
will be: (a) an economic rate of return of not less than 20 percent (real); (b) a financial rate of return
of not less than 10 percent (real); (c) a demonstrated ability on the part of the ultimate borrower to
finance the local portion of project costs from internally generated funds; (d) the technical feasibility of
the proposal; (e) the proposed implementation plan; 09 a debt service ratio of at least 1.2 to demonstrate
the ability, on the part of the borrower, to repay the loan to the Ministry of Finance; and, (g) an
environmental assessment which meets Russian requirements.
G.    Procurement
6.29   Table 6.3 summarizes the procurement approaches to be used for the project. The equipment and
services to be financed by the Bank consist of standard, conventional items. The meters, SCADA system,
cathodic protection, leak detection equipment, software and hardware for network modeling, and pipes
are available from a number of suppliers world-wide and will be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) except for some small items of less than US$100,000 and emergency purchases
which will be procured under International Shopping (IS). The Bank's standard bidding documents will
be used for all ICB packages. Equipment purchased for energy efficiency investments will also be
procured under ICB except for equipment of small value (such as portable diagnostic equipment) which
will be procured under international shopping. Construction works and equipment installation will be
performed by local contractors, hired using Local Shopping, and financed by the GDC. At least three
quotations will be obtained from local contractors and the contract will be awarded to the lowest evaluated
bidder. Works will be supervised jointly by local construction management teams and equipment supplier
representatives.



- 28 -
6.30   The consultants to provide implementation assistance will be selected and managed by the GDC.
It is proposed that this take place under advance procurement procedures. The training and technical
assistance to RESF will be selected and managed by RESF. The upgrading of gas industry standards and
construction procedures will be selected and managed by Rossgazifikazia, but with MOFE as the
borrower. With the exception of the twinning arrangement, the remaining consultants will be selected
and managed by the Main Department for Gas Industry and Gasification within the MOFE. Co-
ordination will be undertaken by the consultant selected for that purpose. All consultants will be selected
in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants, with the exception of the consultants for
the Third Party Access Study and the coordination. MOFE has requested that the consultants hired for
the first phase of the Third Party Access Study be retained for the second phase (valued at $700,000) on
a sole source basis. The consultants have performed satisfactorily and the Bank has no objection to this
proposal. The coordination of the studies requires that consultants be hired that are familiar with all of
the issues involved in the proposed studies. A consortium of consulting companies has worked with
MOFE in defining this program and hence are uniquely qualified for this role. The Bank has reviewed
the proposed consultants qualifications and has no objection to the government's proposal that this
component, valued at $300,000, be sole sourced. In order to accelerate project implementation,
Volgograd Gorgas has requested, and the Bank has agreed, to select consultants, satisfactory to the Bank,
on a sole source basis, to assist the Gorgas in the initial stages of implementation. These consultants will
be employed during the first three to four months of project implementation, at which time it is expected
that the selection of long term consultants under competitive bidding procedures can be completed. The
twinning company will be selected and managed by the GDC from proposals received from the bilateral
donors. The GEF component will be implemented and managed by the committee set up for that
purpose.
6.31  Interested suppliers from Russia will be encouraged to bid on the ICB packages, particularly for
the cathodic protection equipment, meters and pipes. The bidding documents for ICB procurement will
include the Bank's standard preference for domestic manufacture of 15 percent or the value of the import
duties and taxes whichever is less, so that eligible and qualified Russian manufacturers can benefit from
the preference, should they bid. This will include Russian and international joint ventures that meet
domestic value requirements. Considering the separable nature of most of the project components (only
network modeling and pipe replacement are inter-dependent), procurement arrangements will be
structured so as to be sufficiently flexible to accommodate adjustments in the work program during
project implementation.
6.32   Procurement for the gas distribution component of the project will be handled by Volgograd
Gorgas. The GDC staff will be responsible for preparing and maintaining detail procurement plans.
These plans will contain a detailed list of bidding documents to be issued and a schedule for each
proposed contract, giving the date when the draft will be ready for Bank review, when bid documents
will be released, the bid opening date, the date the bid evaluation report will be given to the Bank for its
review, the contract signing date, and the dates when equipment will be delivered or services rendered.
Equipment procurement has been structured in a phased manner to minimize the financial risks for the
borrower. This is feasible because of the divisible nature of the project. Periodic reviews of the financial
viability of the project components and the GDC will be undertaken in close concert with procurement
reviews, to ensure that the project components remain feasible. The procurement plan would be adjusted
accordingly. Annex 6-4 shows the preliminary procurement plan for the project.



- 29 -
Table 6-3 - Surmmary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Element                    Procurement Method                 N.B.F.2        Total Costs
ICB             Other'
1. Metering
1.1 Industrial Meters                         11.6               0.4                 1.9             14.0
(11.6)             (0.4)                              (12.0)
1.2 Commercial Meters                          0.9                                   0.1              1.0
(0.9)                                                 (0.9)
1.3 Private Home Meters                        2.7                  --               1.4              4.1
(2.7)                                                 (2.7)
1.4 Apartment Meters                           6.5               0.1                 2.5              9.1
(6.5)             (0.1)                               (6.6)
1.5 Meter Test Equipment                       0.3                                   0.1              0.4
(0.3)                                                 (0.3)
2. Asset Preservation
2.1 Pipeline Replacement                        1.1                 --               0.4              1.5
(1.1)                                                 (1.1)
2.2 Cathodic Protection                        5.9                0.3                5.1             11.3
(5.9)             (0.3)                               (6.2)
2.3 Leak Detection Equipment                   2.1                  --               0.6               2.7
(2.1)                                [0.4]      (2.1)/[0.4]
2.4 SCADA                                      2.1                0.2                0.7              3.0
(2.1)             (0.2)                               (2.3)
2.5 Network Modelling                          0.8                  --               0.3              1.1
(0.8)                                                 (0.8)
3. Energy Efficiency 3                            52.0                6.0                6.3             64.3
(52.0)             (6.0)                              (58.0)
4. Consulting
4.1 Implementation Support                                        1.5                  --             1.5
(1.5)                               (1.5)
4.2 Twinning / Training                                             --              2.04              2.0
4.3 Technical Assistance                          --             12.0                  --            12.0
(12.0)                              (12.0)
5. GHG Reduction Initiatives -                        --                 --              3.3               3.3
goods and services                                                                 [2.8]            [2.8]
Total                                             86.0               20.5               24.9            131.4
IBRD Financed                                    (86.0)             (20.5)                 --          (106.5)
GEF Financed                                                                            [3.2]            [3.2]
Notes: F igures  ( ) are the amounts fmanced by the Bank loan.  Figures in [ ] are ftnanced by UhP.  N.B.F.: Not Bank Financ
1.  Goods would be procured by International Shopping (IS). Consulting services would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
2. Includes local costs for engineering, procurement and installation.
3.  Breakdown between ICB and IS is based on the sample of identified projects.
4. Includes US$0.5 million local costs and US$1.5 million co-financing.



- 30 -
6.33   All contracts in excess of US$100,000 for the gas distribution component will be subject to the
Bank's prior review procedure. All of the energy efficiency contracts will be subject to the Bank's prior
review. This will result in over 90 percent of the total value of Bank financed goods being subject to
review. If, during project supervision, the Executing Agencies are found to be undertaking procurement
in a satisfactory manner, the review requirement will be modified to exclude contracts of less than
US$1.0 million. The terms of reference for all consulting assignments will be subject to prior review
by the Bank. All consulting services contracts in excess of US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals will be subject to the Bank's prior review procedure. This relatively extensive review of the
procurement packages is considered necessary because of the inexperience of the implementing agencies.
In addition to the Bank's review procedure, a procurement specialist will assist the GDCs for at least the
first year when all the initial procurement packages will be prepared and issued. RESF staff will provide
procurement assistance to the entities responsible for energy efficiency investments. Selective post review
of awarded contracts below the threshold levels will be carried out on about one in four contracts.
H.    Disbursement
6.34   The profile of yearly expenditures for the Bank loan is given in Table 6-4. The distribution over
the implementation period (spread over four Bank fiscal years) is uneven, with 25 percent to be disbursed
in fiscal year 1996, 38 percent in 1997, 26 percent in 1998, and 11 percent in 1999. This distribution
is consistent with the borrowers' ability to implement the project as determined during appraisal. While
the profile is more compressed than is typical for Bank projects in the gas sector, it is defensible based
on the steps which have been taken to accelerate project implementation." In the first year, the
disbursements will be for consultants to assist the GDCs in project implementation and for the first round
of items to be procured under ICB. In the second and third years, the remaining portions of the
engineered materials and equipment will be disbursed.
Table 6-4 - Disbursement Schedule of the IBRD Loan
(US$ million equivalent)
Component.              FY96      FY97      FY98       FY99   7 Total
Gas Distribution            5.6      12.7       9.4       7.3      35.0
Energy Efficiency          16.3      23.0      15.1       3.6      58.0
Technical Support           4.4       5.2       3.2       0.7      13.5
Total                      26.3      40.9      27.7      11.6    106.5
Percent of Total             25        38        26        11       100
Cumulative Total           26.3     67.2       94.9    106.5
6.35   The distribution profile for investments in RESF energy efficiency projects will be contingent on
the speed with which viable qualifying sub-projects are prepared, appraised, and approved. A number
11/    Draft tender documents for the items to be financed under the gas distribution component of the project
have been circulated to Volgograd Gorgas for their review. A draft Letter of Invitation to consultants to assist
in project implementation has also been completed.



- 31 -
of sub-projects have already been identified and reviewed during appraisal (see Annex 6-1).
6.36   Table 6-5 itemizes the conditions for withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan. Disbursement will
be fully documented except that statement of expenditures (SOE) will be used for disbursement for
contracts of goods procured under International Shopping (less than US$50,000). Documentation will
be retained at the respective GDCs.
Table 6-5
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Amount of the Loan   Percent of
Allocated (in        Expenditures
Category                                          dollar equivalent)   to be Financed
Part A of the Project (Technical Assistance)
Technical assistance                           10,000,000        100% of Expenditures
Part B of the Project (Energv Efficiency)
Goods                                          47,500,000        100% of Expenditures a/
Technical Assistance                            2,000,000        100% of Expenditures
Unallocated                                    10,500,000
Part C of the Project (Volgograd Gorgas)
Goods                                          27,300,000        100% of Expenditures a/
Technical assistance                            1,500,000        100% of Expenditures
Unallocated                                     7,700,000
TOTAL                                          106J00,000
a/     100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 70% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
6.37   To facilitate payments of small and medium size amounts in foreign currency and all
payments in local currency, the Borrower would open separate Special Accounts (SAs) for each
component (Parts A, B and C of the Project) in a commercial bank or banks acceptable to IBRD.
The maximum authorized allocation of each of the SAs would be US$300,000. The initial amount to
be deposited at the beginning of disbursement would be US$100,000. This amount will be increased
to the maximum authorized allocation once the level of disbursement equals or exceeds US$1,000,000
equivalent in respect of each of the respective SAs. The SAs will be replenished at intervals as
required.



- 32 -
I.    Environment
6.38  In accordance with Annex E of OD 4.01 relating to rehabilitation and maintenance projects,
the proposed project has been assigned Category B classification. The project will not require any
land acquisition for new, permanent right-of-way, and will not require any population resettlement.
6.39   The natural gas savings generated by the energy efficiency component will provide both direct
and indirect environmental benefits. The direct effects include reduction in acid and greenhouse gas
emissions (NOx and CO2) associated with lower consumption of natural gas. The indirect benefits
stem from the greater availability of natural gas and its potential substitution for more polluting fuels
such as coal and petroleum products. As shown in Table 6-6, the direct environmental benefits of the
erergy efficiency component in terms of reduced acid and greenhouse gas emissions amount to 2,000
tonnes and 1.2 million tonnes each year, respectively. The magnitude of indirect benefits, while no
less real, depends on the rate of interfuel substitution and has not been estimated.
6.40   An environmental mitigation plan has been prepared to address the potential project impacts,
and is described in Annex 6-5. Only three components of the gas distribution system rehabilitation
may have a measurable impact on the physical environment: (a) replacement of degraded pipe; (b)
cathodic protection (including new test equipment); and, (c) new construction, maintenance, and
operating equipment. Though the impacts of cathodic protection and new equipment will be
cumulative and not site-dependent, pipe replacement impacts will be dependent on the specific
characteristics of the sites involved. Mitigative measures, including the training of an environmental
coordinator, are described in Annex 6-5.
Table 6-6
Environmental Benefits of the Identified (US$ 15 million) and Full (US$ 60 million) Energy
Efficiency Project: Reductions in Atmospheric Emissions (tonnes/year)
Identified Energy      Full Energy;
Efficiency Project   Efficiency Project
Natural gas savings (thousand m3/year)         175,000.0            700,000.0
CO2 emission coefficient (g/m3)                  1,770.0              1,770.0
NO, emission coefficient (g/m3)                     2.9                   2.9
CO2 reductions (t/yr)                          310,000.0          1,240,000.0
NO, reductions (t/yr)                             500.0               2,000.0
J.    Monitoring and Supervision
6.41   Owing to the nature of the project, the relative lack of experience on Bank projects in Russia and
the lack of experience of Volgograd Gorgas and the RESF with Bank procedures, reporting arrangements
are particularly important. These conditions will require frequent adjustment of the work program to
compensate for changing conditions during project implementation. To facilitate increased focus on the
project objectives during implementation, a set of key development indicators that will be specifically
addressed during supervision missions and periodic reports by the borrower has been established (see
Annex 6-6).



- 33 -
6.42   A project launch mission will take place early on to accelerate loan effectiveness and project
implementation. For the gas distribution component of the project, it is proposed that the Gorgas prepare
bi-monthly progress reports during the first year of implementation, then quarterly progress reports
thereafter. These reports will be furnished to the Bank and present the physical progress of the project,
procurement status, costs incurred and anticipated, disbursements made, administrative aspects and
institutional performance. A mid-term review will take place towards the end of the second year and the
Volgograd Gorgas will be required to prepare a report describing the physical progress and an assessment
of how well the project meets the overall project objectives and benefits. Because the project is broken
into a number of components, project supervision will require more resources than normal Bank projects.
Project supervision for the components to be implemented by Volgograd Gorgas will entail two
supervision missions annually. Requirements in terms of staff weeks are expected to be high (24 weeks)
in the first year, but will decline to 22 staff weeks in the second year, and to 20 in the third and fourth
years of the project. Supervision missions will also cover the energy efficiency components of the
project. Annex 6-7 details the proposed supervision program.
6.43   A significant monitoring and supervision effort is also planned for the energy efficiency
investment components of the project. Because of the number of sub-projects and enterprises involved
in the project, semi-annual missions are proposed during the first two years to monitor project progress.
The missions will include a technical specialist and a financial analyst specializing in energy-saving
projects. RESF, supported by the consultants providing institutional support to the group, will be
responsible for preparing documents for the Bank supervision missions. RESF will also be required to
submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports during project implementation, and to prepare and furnish
to the Bank, within six months of project completion, a completion report including a reassessment of
project costs and benefits.
6.44   During the implementation phase of the project, Volgograd Gorgas will furnish the following
financial reports to the Bank: (a) financial statements, within three months of the end of each fiscal year;
(b) audited project accounts, beginning with the account for fiscal year 1995, within six months of the
end of each fiscal year; (c) audited financial statements (including a qualified restatement in accordance
with GAAP, if required) showing their performance and position beginning with fiscal year 1995, within
six months of the end of each fiscal year; and, (d) by October 1 of every year, a copy of the budget for
the next financial year, clearly indicating how the financial targets can be met. The GDC will also
prepare and furnish to the Bank, within six months of project completion, a completion report including
a reassessment of project costs and benefits.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.    Projected Gas Demand
7.1    Projections of gas demand in Volgograd were based on a review of macro-economic and
demographic trends and the anticipated response of demand to the changing economic environment.12
The key assumptions in developing the projections are as follows:
*      Regional population growth will follow the growth factors projected for the country as
a whole. Changes in apartment stock will be directly linked to changes in population;
12/   In view of the considerable uncertainty as to the outcome of industrial restructuring, these projections
are regarded as general indicators at the city and regional levels.



- 34 -
*     Efficiency of residential and commercial gas use will improve as old equipment is
replaced and prices approach full cost recovery;
*     The number of commercial establishments is correlated to changes in GDP. In addition,
there will be extraordinary growth in the number of commercial establishments by the
year 2010 in response to growth in consumer demand, adding 50 percent to GDP-driven
growth in establishments;
*     Changes in industrial gas consumption are directly correlated to projected changes in
national industrial output (excluding fuels). In addition, modest improvements in
efficiency were projected as a result of higher gas prices and modernization of
equipment.
*     The areas served by the district heating system in each city will not change. New
housing units would be served directly by gas or electricity. Modest improvements in
efficiency are also projected as a result of gas price increases and equipment replacement.
7.2    Figure 7-1 shows the projected gas demand for Volgograd Gorgas. After an overall decline in
demand of approximately 6 percent from 1992 to 1995, gas demand is projected to recover to 1992 levels
by the end of the decade. By the end of the forecast period (2010), gas demand is projected to be
approximately 21 percent higher than in 1992.
Figure 7-1
Projected Natural Gas Demand - Volgograd Gorgas
4500                                     -                            I
4000 T-W-*
3500
25000| -*                                                Volgograd
I E 15004
1000
500                                  _
tN   e   (D  Dco  0   CN     co  co  0
on a)        a   o   o   o   o 0 o   -
CD  a)       CD0   0   0   0   0   0
-   ,-   -   _   CN  CN  CS  CN  CN  C'S
Source: BSA, Inc.
B.    Least-Cost Supply Analysis
7.3    An assessment was carried out of the long-run least cost means of providing space heating, hot
water and cooking services to new and existing residential and commercial customers and evaluated the



- 35 -
economically prudent limit for district heating. The following conclusions were drawn:
District Heating vs. Direct Use of Gas in Apartment Blocks: Energy losses in district heating
rise in proportion to the distance of the consumer from the district heating plant. The economic
limits of supplying space heating and hot water through a district heating system were reviewed,
as opposed to on-site heaters and boilers. While there are many variables, it was concluded that
the economic limits of centralized supply were within a piping distance of approximately 7 km
from a combined heat and power plant. It is estimated, however, that 90 percent of the
apartments currently served by the district heating system in Volgograd are within this radius.
The relative economics of maintaining centralized, versus shifting to decentralized, boilers would
be reviewed as part of the assessment of district heating subprojects, if relevant (that is, where
system expansion or upgrading of outlying lines was involved).
*     Gas Service for Cooking Only: In the majority of apartment houses served by district heating,
gas is used only for cooking purposes, and a major part of the low-pressure distribution system
could be closed down if electric stoves were used instead of gas cookers. The long run marginal
cost (LRMC) of electricity for residential consumers has been estimated to be roughly US$
0.09/kWh (US$ 931/MCM equivalent). This may be less than the long-run cost of gas supply
for cooking only, particularly when the cost of increased capacity of the gas distribution system
is included. Given the low projected growth in demand, gas system capacity should be sufficient
to meet growth for some time. Hence, the marginal cost of gas would be limited to the short run
variable cost of supply. This would be lower than the cost of switching to electric cooking.
Therefore, continued support for gas use for cooking only is justifiable until the gas network is
due to be replaced, at which time cooking loads would be more cost effectively supplied by
electricity.
*     Efficiency of energy use in apartment buildings is extremely low and could be improved
considerably at relatively low cost. In general, efficiency improvements are a low-cost source
of incremental supply.
C.    Project Justification and Benefits
7.4    For the purpose of evaluating economic rates of return, the proposed project can be subdivided
into the following three main components:
(a)    installation and upgrading of meters;
(b)    investments in asset preservation and control; and,
(c)    energy efficiency investments for district heating and power plants.
7.5    Capital costs of the proposed project components were taken directly from the cost estimates
presented in Chapter 6, excluding taxes, duties, and contingencies. Financial costs were considered to
be a reasonable measure of the economic cost of resources used; and thus adjustments were not required.
Probable impacts of the project components on operating and maintenance costs were reviewed, and were
deemed on balance to be negligible. Although some aspects of the project would lead to higher
operations and maintenance costs, other aspects yielded corresponding savings.
7.6    The benefits of the metering and energy efficiency components of the project were measured in
terms of the value of gas savings. The benefits of the control and asset preservation component were
primarily based on deferred pipeline replacement. In addition, the reduction of stray currents from the
cathodic protection system would decrease the deterioration of other steel pipe systems, for example,



- 36 -
district heating and water supply; however, these benefits were not quantified. Moreover, the project
would have important demonstration effects for cost-effective measures to improve the efficiency of end
use and of gas distribution in other cities in Russia. The economic returns are summarized in Table 7-1.
Subsequent paragraphs discuss the benefits analysis for each component, while Annex 7-1 presents the
detailed economic cash flow projections.
Table 7-1
Summary of Project Economic Returns and Investment Cost
Asset        Energy
Meters     Preservation    Efficiency    Total
Economic rate of return             59%           52%           25%         38%
Investment costs (excluding         20.6          14.6          44.6        79.8
contingency) (in US$ million)
7.7    Metering: Most of the meters currently in place for industrial (and some commercial) customers
were installed many years ago, and as such, they are likely under-recording consumption. Upgrading
industrial meters would alleviate this problem, either reducing the nontechnical losses of Volgograd
Gorgas or encouraging the customer to reduce consumption. The associated savings were estimated at
2 percent of industrial gas consumption.
7.8    At present, most residential customers, as well as a number of commercial enterprises, are billed
based on consumption norms, which are computed estimates of average consumption derived from the
total quantity of gas supplied. There is consequently no incentive to conserve gas, because the marginal
cost of consumption by the consumer is zero. The installation of metering for apartment buildings,
private homes, and unmetered commercial customers would link consumers' gas bills directly to actual
consumption. This, together with projected rises in gas prices, is expected to induce customers to use
gas more efficiently. The gas savings arising from residential and commercial metering are estimated
by the consultant to be equivalent to 25% of current consumption.
7.9    The value of gas savings was based on the estimated long run marginal cost (LRMC) of gas
supply to industrial (US$40/MCM), commercial (US$140/MCM) and residential customers
(US$140/MCM). LRMC was used as a proxy for benefits, rather than export equivalents, because of
the uncertainties associated with increased exports. If export markets are limited, gas savings would
enable gas investments to be deferred. The value of such deferrals would be the LRMC of supply. The
LRMC estimates reflect the cost of supplying gas to the city gate, the variable costs of distribution, and
the need for rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network in each city. In most instances,
however, neither rehabilitation nor system expansion are a significant factor because of contracting
demand. Thus, operations and maintenance constitute the major part of the marginal costs over and
above the cost at the city gate under the current situation. The LRMC of supplying gas for cooking only
is estimated to be US$250/MCM, which is largely attributable to fixed customer service costs. However,
the value of potential gas savings associated with these customers is lower, and the benefits were valued
at the US$140/MCM level.
7.10   Upgrading of industrial meters shows the lowest rate of return at 10 percent, because the savings
are limited to more accurate readings. The introduction of meters for commercial and residential



- 37 -
customers shows an economic rate of at least 55 percent. Of these, the introduction of meters in
apartment blocks has the lowest rate of return (55 percent) because of the low gas consumption (cooking
only) and consequently small gas savings. However, the rate of return on the installation of meters for
commercial enterprises and private households are 459 percent and 140 percent, respectively.
7.11   Asset Preservation and Controls: In addition to meters, the gas distribution component of the
project includes cathodic protection, SCADA, leak detection equipment, inspection and testing equipment,
and network analysis tools. Each component provides a contribution to improve the long-run reliability,
safety, and economic and technical efficiency of the gas distribution system. The project benefits of these
components are evaluated as a package for preservation, control, and supervision of the entire distribution
system. Several components of the package contribute to the benefit. However, cathodic protection,
which represents the major share of the cost of the asset preservation and control component (57 percent),
also provides the main contribution to the economic benefits through the extension of the expected life
of pipelines, resulting in deferred pipeline replacement and reduced maintenance, and a reduction in
electricity consumption.
7.12   The value of the economic benefits is estimated as follows:
(a)    Deferred or avoided pipeline replacement is calculated as the opportunity cost of reduced annual
pipeline-replacement costs, because of an extension of the lifetime of the network from an
estimated 20 years to 60 years. The introduction of the SCADA system and network analysis
would reduce operational and maintenance costs. The effects of these components are estimated
to add 10 percent to the benefits of deferred pipeline replacement. The replacement cost of the
buried pipeline system is estimated at US$114 per meter (see Annex 7-1 for details).
(b)    The benefit associated with reduced electrical consumption by the cathodic protection system is
valued at the economic costs of electricity for industrial consumption: US$0.065/kWh.
7.13   Energy Efficiency Investments: The primary potential energy efficiency investments in district
heating and combined heat and power plants are burner and boiler replacement, meters and control
equipment, and instrumentation to improve oxygen trim. Considerable efficiency gain can also be
accomplished through better combustion design, modifications to permit operation as a closed system,
and controls and operating procedures in district heating plants. A number of subprojects, with a total
estimated cost of approximately US$42 million (at 1993 price levels), have been identified in the four
cities. The associated benefits of these subprojects have also been estimated in terms of projected annual
gas savings. Using a cost of US$40/MCM (that is, the LRMC of industrial and commercial consumption)
to measure the value of these benefits yields an average economic internal rate of return of 25 percent
on the identified subprojects. The project is structured, however, to allow a measure of flexibility in the
selection of subprojects, provided that they yield an economic rate of return of 20 percent or more. In
addition, by expanding the geographic scope of the project to encompass additional cities (see para 6.26),
it should be possible to replicate those projects at the higher end of the range of EIRRs, thereby
increasing both the quantities of gas saved and the average EIRR on the energy efficiency component.
In summary, the package of subprojects ultimately implemented could provide an average rate of return
that is greater than the 25 percent estimated above, but not less than the 20 percent minimum.
D.    Economnic Sensitivity Analyses
7.14   Based on the assumptions specified above, the economic rate of return of the project as a whole
is 38 percent. The following analysis shows the sensitivity of the EIRR to the underlying assumptions.



- 38 -
7.15   Project Cost: The cost of the investment program may prove to be higher than estimated by the
consultant. A 15 percent increase in project costs would reduce the economic rate of return to 36
percent.
7.16   Environmental Benefits: Environmental benefits of the project would result from a reduction in
the use of gas and methane leakage in the network. Reduction in gas consumption would reduce the
emissions of CO2, SO2, NO, and particulates. The reduction of CO2 emissions is valued at US$20/t of
CO2 emitted. If these environmental benefits are included, the economic rate of return would rise to 62
percent.
7.17   Exports and the Economic Value of Natural Gas: Gas savings in the industrial sector are valued
at US$40/MCM, and in the commercial and residential sectors at US$140/MCM. These are conservative
estimates of the value of gas saved, which reflect the marginal cost of supply in domestic markets (see
para 7.9). The medium- and long-term prospects for increased gas exports from Russia to Europe is
expected to rise (see para 3.3). At the time of project appraisal, negotiations of gas prices among
importers of gas in Western Europe and major exporters had settled at around US$80/MCM at the
importing country's border (at Waidhaus in the Czech Republic). This would result in a netback of
US$60/MCM at the Russian/Ukrainian border, or US$55/MCM at the city gate. If in the economic
analysis the opportunity cost of gas consumed by industrial, commercial and residential customers were
taken as equivalent, at the city gate, to this export-linked value, the benefits associated with gas savings
would rise to US$60/MCM for industrial consumption, and US$160/MCM for residential and commercial
consumption. At these values, the economic rate of return would rise to 48 percent.
VIII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION AND RISK ANALYSIS
A.    Projected Profitability and Rate of Return
8.1    Financial returns on the project, like the investments themselves, will be spread among a number
of beneficiaries. For Volgograd Gorgas, returns will accrue through decreases in unbilled supplies as
a result of improved and extended metering and through reduced or deferred asset replacement as a result
of network improvements. The associated capital costs incurred by the Gorgas are discussed in Chapter
VI, and include the costs of meters and meter-testing equipment, cathodic protection, network analysis
tools and related asset maintenance equipment. Retail prices of gas were assumed to increase in real
terms, reaching US$40/MCM equivalent (excluding VAT) by the end of 1995 for industrial and
commercial customers and reaching US$40/MCM by the end of 1997 for residential customers. Margins
were assuned to remain constant in percentage terms. '3
8.2    The overall financial rate of return to Volgograd Gorgas is 17.1 percent. Table 8-1 below shows
the rates of return separately for the metering and network improvement components of the project and
for the two components jointly. Details of the rate-of-return calculations are provided in Annex 8-1.
8.3    Clearly, the metering component of the project is not financially viable from the perspective of
13/    Margin refers to the difference between the price at which the GDC buys the gas from Gazprom and the
price at which it sells to its customers. Projected margins are based on a constant percentage spread between
purchase and selling prices. Because the margins must cover operating costs, interest, taxes, and return on assets
employed, it is the margin, rather than the absolute selling price of the gas, that determines financial profitability.



- 39 -
the Gorgas under the base assumptions with regard to prices. Although the potential economic benefits
are substantial in terms of induced conservation and consequent freeing up of gas for export, financial
returns to the gas distribution company, which are limited to reductions in unbilled supplies, are
insufficient to support the investment required. Possible approaches to resolving this problem include:
(a) recovering part and/or all of the meter costs through direct customer contributions; or (b) imposing
a demand charge on metered customers to recover the capital costs of the meters (including a return on
investment) over their economic life.
Table 8-1
Financial Rate of Retum on Components
Metering               Network                 Total
Improvements
Volgograd           -12.3%                  34.9%                  17.1%
8.4    Under the first alternative, up-front customer contributions would have to cover a substantial
proportion of meter capital costs. To allow Volgograd Gorgas to achieve a minimum 10 percent FIRR
on the metering component of the project, customers would have to contribute 92 percent of meter capital
costs. Given the high unit costs for meters relative to income, an attempt to finance the meters through
up-front customer contributions is likely to be constrained by customer ability to pay. In addition,
substantial customer contributions could create uncertainties or disputes with regard to meter ownership
and, hence, maintenance.
8.5    Under the second alternative, Volgograd Gorgas would impose a demand charge or meter rental
charge that would recover the financial cost of the meters (including a 10 percent return on investment)
over a more extended period. Recovering the full cost of the meters over 10 years would require
monthly demand charges in the order of US$0.70 for apartment units, US$11.40 for commercial
customers, and US$230 for industrial users. If the Gorgas were to recover only those percentages of
meter cost required to yield an overall 10 percent return on the investment, demand charges would be
reduced accordingly.
8.6    The option of applying a meter rental charge was discussed with Volgograd Gorgas during
appraisal and was generally well received. The Gorgas management expressed some concern about
householders' ability, and incentive, to pay a meter rental charge given current economic conditions and
the extremely low cost of residential gas. However, given that the installation of residential meters is
generally concentrated in the later years of the project, by which time it is expected that both household
incomes and residential gas prices will have increased in real terms, the barriers associated with
affordability and incentive should no longer be an issue.
8.7    Assuming that rental charges are set to recover the full cost of meters and installation over a 10
year period, the FIRR on the metering component of the project would increase to 19.2 percent, and the
FIRR on the project as a whole would increase to 26.2 percent. Table 8-2 sunmmarizes the results by
component.
8.8    For the energy efficiency components of the project (those funds that would be directed towards
energy efficiency investments by local district heating and power utilities), positive projected financial



- 40 -
returns would be a condition of access to funds through the RESF. Returns cannot be defined until such
time as specific projects are fully evaluated and agreed to. The economic analysis, however, has
demonstrated that there are a number of potential efficiency initiatives with substantial returns. In turn,
RESF's activities would be financially self-sustaining, with the margin between borrowing and lending
costs set to recover their operating and administration costs.
Table 8-2
Financial Rate of Return on Components
(includes meter rental charges)
Metering               Network                 Total
Improvements
Volgograd            14.3%                  34.9%                  26.2%
B.    Financial Sensitivity Analysis
8.9    The major uncertainties about the financial profitability and rate of return on the project relate
to the distribution system rehabilitation components to be implemented by Volgograd Gorgas.
Uncertainty regarding the capital costs is a concern given the escalation in prices of local materials and
labor, and the ongoing shifts in the exchange rate. The financial analysis examined the impact of an
overall 15 percent real increase in the cost of project inputs. This increase would reduce the financial
rate of return on the network improvement components from 34.9 percent to 31.2 percent. At the same
time, however, changes in input costs would have an impact on the benefits of the network improvement
components of the project, which accrue from deferred asset replacement. If this associated impact of
a 15 percent cost increase is included in the analysis, the FIRR on the network improvements component
of the project would be unchanged at 34.9 percent. Because meter rental charges would be adjusted to
reflect actual capital costs incurred, higher capital costs would have only a minor impact on the FIRR of
the metering component.
8.10   There is also uncertainty about the benefits of the asset life extension program. The base case
analysis presumes that under the project the asset replacement period will increase from an average of
20 years to 60 years. Given the uncertainty about the existing condition of the pipe network, these
assumptions may overstate the benefits. Assuming instead that the average asset life is increased from
20 to 40 years, the FIRR on the network improvement components of the project declines from 34.9
to 28.2 percent, and the overall FIRR on the project would decline from 26.2 to 22.2 percent.
C.    Risk Analysis and Management
8.11   Background: Project risks were assessed to determine a risk mitigation strategy. The analysis
focused on financial risks instead of economic risks because of the relatively high project returns in
economic terms. Furthermore, as GDCs have become joint stock companies, support to their increasing
financial focus is important. The process involved establishing a list of project risks, followed by the
development of alternative risk mitigation strategies. The impact of the proposed mitigative measures
were evaluated to determine the incremental impact on expected financial returns for the project; thus,
a risk mitigation plan for the project could be developed. The approach is designed to increase the



- 41 -
expected project returns by developing a risk mitigation strategy in advance of project implementation.
This strategy would be adhered to during project implementation to manage risks.
8.12   Risk List: The uncertainty associated with the project's financial
returns, without risk mitigation, was analyzed using a monte carlo                 Risk List
simulation. Uncertainties associated with project costs (quantities and unit
costs) and benefits (quantities and values) were evaluated by assigning a      Equipment Quantity
probability distribution to each element and linking inherent dependencies.   Equipment UntCts
The results of the analysis of the project financial returns (for the asset life  Equipment Unit Costs
extension component) without risk mitigation indicated that the expected          Output Prices
FIRR would decrease by 2.7 percent compared to the most likely case.'4           Energy Savings
Furthermore, the risk analysis also  indicated that the uncertainties            Investment Plan
associated with costs justify the relatively high level of physical
contingencies.
8.13   Risk Mitigation: After the uncertainties were analyzed, a risk mitigation list was developed.
The risk mitigation proposals form the basis of a strategy in which risks could be controlled, thus
lowering the likelihood of decreased project returns. Many of these risk mitigation strategies have been
built into the project design concept, including: (a) conditioning the loan on establishing joint stock
companies; (b) establishing a twinning/training relationship to foster the transition to a privately owned
entity; and, (c) establishing a suitable skill mix within Volgograd Gorgas and providing outside support.
In addition, risk management would be actively controlled during project implementation, in particular,
during the procurement process. Three explicit controls would be enforced (see Annex 8-2 for details):
(a) actively promoting bids from Russian suppliers; (b) decreasing local costs by increasing productivity;
and, (c) critically reviewing bids to decrease the likelihood of low probability, high-cost purchases.
8.14   Encouraging participation of Russian manufacturers in the
Risk Mitigation List    bidding process is being pursued by the GDCs, Rossgazifikazia and the
Bank.  Seminars are held in Moscow  to explain Bank procurement
Price Reform         requirements. In the cases where equipment is unsatisfactory, Russian
Institutional Reform    suppliers are being encouraged to either license the designs of others or
instiTutionalReog      establish joint venture partnerships.   Foreign  manufacturers are
Training/Twinning      encouraged  to invest in domestic manufacturing  recognizing  the
Phased Procurement      considerable unmet market potential.
Financial Covenants
Gas Market Analysis     8.15   Control of the local costs are addressed through the twinning
Procurement Review      component, by establishing new procedures that are enabled as a result
of equipment investments (freeing up staff) and by training staff to
undertake new tasks or carry out existing tasks more efficiently. The
low probability/high equipment cost scenarios would be controlled by a proactive bid evaluation process.
If bids prices exceed experience on prices for similar equipment proposed elsewhere, the process will be
reviewed and mitigative measures will be adopted (including re-bidding or, possibly, dropping
components from the project). As a result of the proposed risk control strategy, the expected returns
would increase by 1.7 percent for the asset life extension component and by 3.7 percent for the metering
component. The risk mitigation plan is detailed in Annex 8-2.
14/    The expected return is less than the most likely return because the uncertainties are negatively skewed,
that is, the probability of downside risk exceeds the probability of upside risks.



- 42 -
D.    Cash Flow and Financing Considerations
8.16   The ability of Volgograd Gorgas to meet its financial obligations under the project is contingent
on continued increases in internal cash generation as compared with past performance, the re-investment
of earnings to fund local portions of investment needs, and the maintenance of a cash-flow position to
meet debt service obligations.
8.17   It is proposed that the Gorgas would provide funding to cover all local expenditures. Given the
limited availability of local debt financing, these local components of the investment program would have
to be funded from internal sources. Meeting this requirement would necessitate ongoing increases in the
real levels of gas prices over the next 2 to 3 years (to approximately US$40/MCM equivalent), as well
as the retention of a significant portion of earnings surpluses over the period of investment. Real prices
of gas to industrial and commercial customers have increased substantially from mid-1993 (see para 3.18)
from US$8.80/MCM to an estimated US$24.19/MCM. In addition, on March 1, 1995, a resolution was
adopted to increase the residential gas price to RR 20,000/MCM (RR 16,260 excluding VAT and special
tax, or approximately US$3.70 at the current exchange rate), which more than doubled the real price
relative to the level at the time of the last price adjustment (see Table 3-2).  At the same time,
responsibility for setting residential gas prices was devolved to the regional administration who, as
guarantor of the subsidiary loan to Volgograd Gorgas, will have an ongoing commitment to maintain
prices at compensatory levels.
8.18   Analysis of the projected financial performance of Volgograd Gorgas indicates that the
combination of ongoing real increases in industrial/commercial gas prices, constant real residential gas
prices, meter rental charges (calculated based on a 10 year recovery and 10 percent rate of return), and
retention of surpluses would be more than sufficient to provide the internally generated funds necessary
to meet the local currency components of the projects, over the envisioned time frame for implementation
(see Annex 8-3). Over the longer term, cash flow is sufficient to meet debt service obligations and to
provide an average return on net revalued assets over the period 1998 to 2002  of approximately 20
percent. 5
8.19   Although the income and cash flow projections suggest that Volgograd Gorgas will be able to
satisfactorily meet the financial obligations associated with implementing the project, two provisions in
this regard should be noted. First, the analysis presumes that the company is able to maintain arrears
at not more than their December 1993 levels relative to sales. The experience of other Gorgases suggests
that this is feasible, and Volgograd has demonstrated a willingness to pursue the issue.
8.20   Second, the analysis grants first priority in retained earnings to the project under consideration.
Distribution of surpluses to employees and investments in other capital equipment are not included. The
projections indicate, however, that there is a significant surplus available in Volgograd Gorgas, after
meeting the commitments of the project. These residual funds would be available to meet other financing
needs and to be distributed to shareholders.
15/    The relatively high return on assets is attributable in large measure to the following: (a) the value of
the assets, which is based on historic Russian costs adjusted for inflation, is generally felt to be understated
owing to prior distortions in domestic prices; and, (b) many of the assets were put in place many years ago and
are largely depreciated.



- 43 -
E.    Financial Covenants
8.21   Proposed covenants are designed with three main objectives:  (a) ensuring that sufficient
counterpart funds are generated from revenues to cover operating costs and all of the local components
of the investment program; (b) ensuring that debt can be fully serviced with a reasonable margin; and
(c) providing returns that are sufficient to attract equity participation by the private sector.
8.22   A self-financing covenant would require the utility to demonstrate that they can finance the local
portion of the projects from internally generatedfunds. Local costs vary from year to year. On average,
local costs are 27 percent of total expenditures for Volgograd Gorgas, but during the first year of the
project, local costs are in the order of 20 percent of the total. In view of the Gorgas's need to build up
retained earnings, the self-financing requirement has been set at 20 percent for the first year of the project
(1996), rising to 30 percent for subsequent years. By the end of October of each calendar year,
Volgograd Gorgas would prepare, for the Bank's review and approval, cash flow analyses based on the
projected subsequent years 'prices, performance and investment program to demonstrate compliance with
this covenant.
8.23   An accounts receivable covenant is included in the loan agreement requiring Volgograd Gorgas
to maintain accounts receivable balances on trade accounts at less than or equal to the value of the
previous three months sales.
8.24   Once capital outlays are completed, the Gorgas would be required to earn an annual return on
net revalued fixed assets of 10 percent. This would allow a reasonable return to investors and ensure
ongoing access to equity capital. The company would also be required to demonstrate adequate debt
service coverage. Because leverage would be low, a debt-service coverage covenant of 1.5 is included
to ensure that there are adequate funds available to meet loan repayment requirements.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached
9.1    During negotiations, the following agreements were reached. The Government agreed to: (i)
undertake a study that would address ways of improving the regulatory framework for the gas sector to
implement the Government's policies, particularly with regard to pricing and efficiency of supply, and,
(ii) prepare a satisfactory action plan to effect these improvements (see para 3.26)
9.2 The Government and Volgograd Gorgas agreed to the proposed financial covenants (a self-
financing ratio of at least 20 percent in the first year and at least 30 percent thereafter, a debt service ratio
of at least 1.5, accounts receivable not more than three months sales equivalent and a return on net
revalued fixed assets of no less than 10 percent). (see para 8.22, 8.23 and 8.24)
9.3 The Government and RESF agreed that the primary criteria for the viability of energy efficiency
sub-projects would be: (a) an economic rate of return of not less than 20 percent (real); (b) a financial
rate of return of not less than 10 percent (real); (c) a demonstrated ability on the part of the ultimate
borrower to finance the local portion of project costs from internally generated funds; (d) the technical
feasibility of the proposal; (e) a satisfactory implementation plan; (f) a debt service ratio of at least 1.2
to demonstrate the ability, on the part of the borrower, to repay the loan to the Ministry of Finance; and,
(g) an environmental assessment which meets Russian requirements. (see para 6.28)
9.4 Volgograd Gorgas agreed to furnish, by the end of October of each calendar year, a copy of the



- 44 -
cash flow analyses based on the prices, performance and investment program that demonstrate its ability
to meet the self-financing ratio covenant. (see para 8.22)
Actions to be Taken
9.5 The government would complete a subsidiary loan agreements with Volgograd Gorgas as a
condition of loan effectiveness. (see para 6.17)
9.6 Tendering for items where all or part of the acquisition could be deferred (for example, meters)
would be structured to allow phased procurement. This would enable a close linkage to be maintained
between compliance on financial issues and equipment procurement. (see para 6.32)
9.7  Finally, as part of its obligations under the financial covenants attached to the loan agreement, it
will be necessary for the government to monitor the actions of the municipal and regional governments
and agencies in the project areas to ensure that they do not take independent actions that would prejudice
the ability of the subsidiary borrowers to meet their financial obligations under the loan. (see para 5.29)



-45-
Annex 2-1
Page I of I
RUSSLAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFCIENCY PROJECT
Russia - Energy Balances
1990 - 1993
(million tons of oil equivalent)
% Charige
1990        1991        1992        1993       1990-93
Primary Energy Production
Coal (net of processing losses)                 215.0        192.2       183.5       165.9     -22.8%
Crude Oil (net of losses)                       508.7       461.1       395.8        345.4     -32.1%
Natural Gas                                     749.5       752.2       749.2        722.6      -3.6%
Electricity:
Hydro                                           56.1        56.5        57.9        58.5        4.3
Nuclear                                         39.8        40.4        40.0        40.0        0.6
Other                                            12.8         10.5        9.5          8.5     -33.6
T--   Primary                 1, 581.9    1,512 .     1,436.0 - 1,341.C        i
Transformation
Reftiery Production                             297.8       286.5       252.0        217.7     -26.9
Total Tasfortuationi                 297.:       285         2520   - 17: - 6-9
Net Exports
Coal                                             -1.9         -4.7        -0.1        -0.8     -58.1
Crude Oil                                       207.6        162.5       131.0       117.0     -43.6
Refined Products                                 44.9        40.3        40.9         45.2       0.7
Natural Gas                                     210.5       203.8       217.6        196.1      -6.8
Electricity                                       2.8         4.1         5.5          8.7     213.3%
-T-- :---:a--;lT    rts - -  - -   463.9   406.0       394.9       366-2     -21.6
Domestic Consumption*
Coal                                            216.9        196.9       183.7       166.7     -23.1%
Crude Oil                                         3.3        12.1         12.8        10.7     224.2%
Refined Products                                252.9       246.2       211.1        172.5     -31.8%
Natural gas                                     539.0       548.4        519.9       526.5      -2.3%
Primary Electricity                              95.9        96.9        97.9         98.        2.8
Other                                            12.8         10.5        9.5          8.5     -33.6X
- ,;|-;, - jj,, Total Cnsumvtilg               1.120.M l.1111,034.9 2                983,
* While natural gas, petroleum products and coal are used in electricity generation, information
on transformation is poor. Hence, the data for domestic use of these fuels includes the quantities
used in power generation. Total domestic electricity consumpdon (in mtoe) is shown below.
1990                   361.2
1991                   355.2
1992                   333.7
1993                   312.8
Percent Change (90-93)            -13.4%
Source: PlanEcon



-46-
Annex 3-1
Page I of 2
RUSSLAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Russia's Gas Balance
Assumptions: Demand for Russian gas has been volatile over the recent past as a result of: the
economic reforms in Central Europe reducing energy demand; the economic slowdown of the early 1990s
in Western Europe; and, more recently, the breakup of the Former Soviet Union and the reforms which
have taken place there. These events have all led to a lower than expected consumption of Russian
produced gas. However, there have been recent signs of a turnaround in some of these markets.
Economic growth has accelerated in Western Europe. The reforms in some of the countries in Central
Europe are showing signs of success with a turnaround in economic growth. The economies of many
of the FSU republics lag those of Central Europe, as their reform programs have been slower in getting
started. For some economies (like Russia) this is expected to result in a similar turnaround in a few years
time. However, for some economies (like Ukraine) the delay in economic turnaround is assumed to take
longer.
Impact on Gas Demand: As a result of the above scenarios, gas demand in Western Europe
is expected to accelerate in the near- to medium-term as gas is expected to be the fuel of choice due to
cost and environmental considerations. The forecast assumes that Western Europe demand will grow at
about 3 percent per annum, reflecting modest economic growth and no policy shifts in energy use (in
particular, that a carbon tax is not introduced which would make gas a relatively more attractive fuel).
This forecast is generally consistent with those made by consultants outside the Bank. Demand for gas
in Central Europe is assumed to grow at about 4 percent per annum, on the basis that these economies
will grow faster during their period of economic recovery.
Demand in the FSU is assumed to respond in a manner similar to Centrai Europe. In the few
fast reforming economies, gas demand is expected to grow quickly after the shock of price increases have
been absorbed. In the case of Russia, demand is expected to drop quickly as bankrupt companies are
closed. This is expected to be followed by further decreases due to a change in the structure of the
economy and energy efficiency investments. The decreases in consumption are expected to continue until
1998 when demand is expected to grow again. For Russia's major export markets in the FSU, Ukraine
and Belarus, gas demand is assumed to drop until 1997, after which it is assumed to remain constant.
This does not reflect expected demand as much as it reflects the uncertainty with reform programs in
these two markets. The level assumed that demand contracts to a level that would be politically
acceptable.
Gas Production: Gas production in Russia is assumed to be a function of the size of the
available resources and Gazprom's ability to mobilize these resources. The production shown in the
attached table is a theoretical production level based on the utilization of existing fields and step-outs from
those fields. Hence, the potential surplus refers to the additional gas that could be supplied from existing
fields and step-outs if the demand necessitated it. The development of Yamal is nIot included as potential
production as it would not be a marginal resource. The size of the field is considerable, but the expected
cost of delivering gas to market from Yamal is expected to be about 50 percent greater than for existing
fields. Developing this resource would require considerable increases in gas prices which would, in turn,
invoke a demand response. Given the assumed level of demand for Russian gas, there does not appear
to be a need to develop Yamal in the near term.



Russia Gas Balance
(volumes in BCM)
1x2p       122          1994        1995       1996        1997       1998        1999       2000
(Actual)   (Actual)  (Estimated)*
Austria                                     5.0         5.3          5.5        5.7         5.8        6.0         6.2        6.4        6.6
Finland                                     3.0         3.1          2.5        2.6         2.7        2.7        2.8         2.9        3.0
France                                     12.0        11.6         11.0       11.3        11.7       12.0        12.4       12.8        13.1
Germany                                    22.7        25.7         28.8       29.6        30.5       31.4       32.4        33.4       34.4
Italy                                      13.9        13.7         12.8       13.2        13.6       14.0        14.4       14.9        15.3
Switzerland                                 0.4         0.3          0.4        0.4         0.4        0.4        0.4         0.5        0.5
Greece                                                                          1.5         1.7        1.8         2.0        2.2        2.4
Turkey                                      4.4         5.0          5.0        5.2         5.3        5.5         5.7        5.8        6.0
Sub-Total West Europe                      61.4        64.7         66.0       69.5        71.7       74.0        76.3       78.7       81.3
Albania                                     0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Bulgaria                                    5.2         4.8          4.6        5.0         5.2        5.4         5.6        5.8        6.1
Czechoslovakia                             11.4        13.3         13.3       13.8        14.3       14.9        15.5       16.1        16.8
Hungary                                     4.8         5.9         5.1         5.3         5.5        5.7         5.9        6.2        6.4
Poland                                      6.6         5.9          6.0        6.3         6.6        6.9        9.5        10.4        10.9
Romania                                     3.8         4.6          3.9        4.0         4.1        4.3        4.4         4.5        4.7
Yugoslavia                                  2.9         1.7         2.1         2.1        2.1         2.1        2.1         2.1        2.1
Sub-Total Central Europe                   34.7       36.2          34.8       36.4        37.8       39.3       43.0        45.2       46.9
Belarus                                    18.0        16.3         14.2       12.0        12.0       12.0        12.0       12.0        12.0 
Moldova                                     3.4         3.1          2.8        2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5        2.5                      >
Ukraine                                    79.4        54.8         57.0       50.0        45.0       40.0       40.0        40.0       40.0
Litbuania                                   3.2         1.8          2.0        1.8         1.8        1.8         1.8        1.8         1.8
Latvia                                      1.6         1.0          1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0
Kazakhstan                                              1.1          0.5
Estonia                                     0.9         0.4          0.6        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0l
Sub-TotalOtherRepublics                   106.4        78.6         78.1       68.3        63.3       58.3        58.3       58.3        58.3
TotWZ;xpotts                              202.5       179.5        179.0      174.2    . 172.8       171.6       177.6      182.2       186.5
Less - Transit from Other Republics         8.0         5.0
Net:Ezporb:.-.  ......    -               194.5.   .174.5          179.0      174.2       172.8.     171.6       177.6      182.2       186.5
Russia Demand                             395.0       382.1        348.9      324.0       303.2      294.9      290.7       294.9      299.0
Total Demind:                            . 589.5      556.6     .  527.8      498.2      476.0       466.4      468.4       477.1      485.5
Losses                                     59.4        67.9         67.2       66.6        65.9       65.3        64.6       64.0       63.3
Demand inc. Losses                        648.9       617.6       595.1       564.8       541.9      531.7      533.0       541.0      548.9
PotentialSupply                           648.9       617.6        607.0      639.5       624.6      612.2       603.1      598.5       599.6              o
,Potential Suirplus                         0.0         0.0         11.9       74.7        82.7       80.5        70.1       57.5        50.7q
Western and Central Europe estimated based on 9 months data.
Other Republics based on preliminary 1994 year-end data.



-48-
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
EDICT No. 1559
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OF DECEMBER 8, 1992
Concerning the Re-Organization as Joint Stock Companies and Privatization of State
Enterprises, Associations and Organizations of the Gas Industry of the Russian Federation
In accordance with Edict No. 922 of the President of the Russian Federation "Concerning Special
Considerations for the Re-Organization of State Enterprises, Associations and Organizations of the Fuel
and Energy Complex as Joint Stock Companies" of August 14, 1992, I decree:
That the enterprises and associations involved in gas supply and the operation of the gas industry
which are enumerated in Appendix No. 1 and the industrial, construction and start-up enterprises
which are enumerated in Appendix No. 2 shall be re-organized as joint stock companies before
March 31, 1993.
The re-organization as joint stock companies of enterprises and associations involved in gas
supply and the operation of the gas industry shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure
established by Edict No. 721 of the President of the Russian Federation "Concerning Measures
for the Re-organization of State Enterprises and Voluntary Associations of State Enterprises as
Joint Stock Companies" of July 1, 1992, taking into account the special considerations which are
stipulated by this Edict.
2.    That the State Committee of the Russian Federation for the Administration of State Property,
prior to the re-organization as joint stock companies of State enterprises involved in gas supply
and the operation of the gas industry, which are part of associations, shall determine the shares
of the Russian Federation, regions and towns in the charter capital of the joint stock companies
which are formed.
The shares of regions and towns in the assets of State enterprises which are not part of
associations shall be determined by constituent republics of the Russian Federation, territories and
provinces on the basis of the assets which are transferred to them by the Russian Federation.
Those shares shall be valued on the basis of the principle that the assets of State manufacturing
and operating depots, gas-filling stations and high-pressure and medium-pressure gas distribution
networks, including installations thereon, are in federal ownership.
3.    That is shall be established that, upon the re-organization as joint stock companies of republican,
territorial, provincial and district associations involved in gas supply and the operation of the gas
industry, the ownership of federal assets which are recorded on the balance sheet of such
associations, with the exception of the assets which are enumerated in paragraph 3 of Article 2
of this Edict, shall be transferred to constituent republics of the Russian Federation, territories,
provinces, autonomous provinces and autonomous districts.



-49-
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 4
4.    That, upon the re-organization as joint stock companies of the enterprises and associations which
are referred to in Appendix No. I to this Edict and of the State enterprise Rosstroigarifikatsiya,
members of the work collectives hall be granted the right to acquire sharers in those companies
on the conditions provided in alternatives 1 and 2 of Article 5.4 of the State Programme for the
Privatization of State and Municipal Enterprises in the Russian Federation in 1992 within the
limits of the value of the assets which are under the commercial jurisdiction of the state
enterprises and associations which are re-organized.
5.     That it shall be established that, when transferring shares to members of the work collectives of
joint stock companies which have been founded on the basis of State enterprises involved in gas
supply and the operation of the gas industry which did not incorporate independent enterprises,
the share of the Russian Federation may not be reduced by more than 20 per cent.
6.     That shareholdings belonging to the Russian Federation in joint stock companies involved in gas
supply and the operation of the gas industry which have been formed on the basis of State
enterprises which were part of associations shall be entered in the charter capital of republican,
territorial, provincial and district joint stock companies for gas supply and the operation of the
gas industry.
The interests of the Russian Federation in the Board of Directors of such companies shall be
represented by persons to be appointed by the State Committee of the Russian Federation for the
Administration of State Property on a submission from the Board of Directors of the joint stock
company Rosstroigarifikatsiya.
7.    That joint stock companies involved in gas supply and the operation of the gas industry may not
transfer ownership of shareholdings which are contributed to their charter capital by the Russian
Federation until the prohibition on the privatization of assets of the engineering infrastructure of
towns and regions and enterprises which operate, service and maintain such assets has been
cancelled.
8.    That the Russian State enterprise for the organization of gasification and gas supply
Rosstroigazifikatsiya shall be re-organized into the joint stock company Rosgarifikatsiya, which
shall be its legal successor.
9.    In order to provide for the development of long-term regional gas supply systems in conjunction
with the development of main gas pipelines and distribution networks, and with the object of
implementing a unified investment policy for the gasification of Russia upon the foundation of
the Russian joint stock company Gasprom, ownership of a portion of the shares belonging to the
Russian Federation shall be transferred to the joint stock company Rosgazifikatsiya with the right
to transfer them with the agreement of the Government of the Russian Federation. The shares
which are transferred shall be entered in the charter capital of the joint stock company
Rosgazifikatsiya.
10.   That 100 per cent of the shares belonging to the Russian Federation in the charter capital of the
joint stock company which has been formed on the basis of the State scientific research and
project institute Giproniigas and its branches shall be entered in the charter capital of the joint
stock company Rosgazifikatsiya.
The employees of that institute and its branches shall be granted the right to acquire shares in the



-50-
Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 4
joint stock company Rosgazifikatsiya on the conditions stipulated by alternatives I and 2 of
Article 5.4 of the State Programme for the Privatization of State and Municipal Enterprises in the
Russian Federation in 1992 within the limits of the value of the assets which are under the
commercial jurisdiction of the institute and its branches.
11.   That, in order to provide for the participation of constituent republics of the Russian Federation,
territories, provinces, autonomous provinces and autonomous districts in the administration of
the joint stock company Rosgazifikatsiya, the State Committee of the Russian Federation for the
Administration of State Property shall enter 40 per cent of the shares in that company which
belong to the Russian Federation as contribution to the charter capital of territorial joint stock
companies involved in gas supply and the operation of the gas industry in proportion to the size
of their charter capital.
12.   That it shall be established that dividends which are accrued on shares in the joint stock company
Rosgazifikatsiya which belong to the Russian Federation shall remain at the disposal of that
company for the first three years of its activity and shall be used to finance the technical re-
equipment, reconstruction and expansion of the production capacities of joint stock companies
involved in gas supply and the operation of the gas industry, and to carry out environmental
protection measures and scientific research and experimental design work.
13.   That the losses of joint stock companies which sell gas at regulated State prices shall be
subsidized from the republican budget of the Russian Federation and the corresponding budgets
of territories in proportion to their shares in the charter capital of those companies.
14.   That it shall be established that state representatives in the Board of Directors of the joint stock
company Rosgazifikatsiya shall be appointed by the Government of the Russian Federation. State
representatives in the Board of Directors shall form a collegium.
The joint stock company Rosgazifikatsiya shall present annual reports on its activities to the
Government of the Russian Federation.
15.   That the powers to control shares belonging to the Russian Federation in the joint stock
companies Gasprom, EEC Rossiya and Rosgazifikatsiya shall be assigned to the collegium of state
representatives in the Board of Directors of those companies.
16.   That the Government of Moscow shall assign premises of 1,000 square meters which are located
at Moscow, ul. Shcherbakovskaya, d. 41a and which are currently occupied by the State
enterprises Rosstroigazifikatsiya to the joint stock company Rossgazifikatsiya by way of legal
succession.
17.   This Edict shall come into force in accordance with the procedure established by the Decree of
the 5th Congress of People's Deputies of the Russian Federation of November 1, 1991
'Concerning Legal Guarantees for Economic Reforms".
President of the Russian Federation                                             B. Yeltsin
*     The lists of enterprises and associations for gasification and the operation of the gas industry and



-51-
Anx 3-2
Page 4 of 4
industrial, construction and start-up enterprises which are to be re-organized as joint stock
companies in accordance with Appendices No. 1 and 2 are not provided.



-52-
Annex 3-3
Page I of 2
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
GAS PRICING IN RUSSIA
Market Framework
1.    The principle upon which gas pricing recommendations are based is its market value. To
establish this, some understanding of the market for Russia gas production is necessary. Briefly, its
export markets to western Europe are about 60 BCM/year. This is forecast to grow at about 3% p.a.
Over the long term energy consumption in central Europe is still being rationalized, and demand has
generally been dropping with some notable exceptions -- gas demand has increased in Poland, Hungary
and the Czech Republic in 1993. Thus gas exports to central Europe are expected to remain constant
over the near term (as some countries pull out of their recession and growth starts), followed by a strong
increase in demand growth (to about 5% p.a.). Russian gas is expected to capture much of this
incremental demand as it is the least cost fuel for many markets. Exports to the FSU (particularly
Ukraine) are expected to contract considerably as prices increase and the structure of the economies
evolve.
2.    Russian demand is also expected to contract considerably, largely as a result of three phenomena:
(i) shutting down uneconomic plants and scaling back production due to market contraction; (ii) energy
conservation in industries that survive; and (iii) a change in the structure in the economy (away from
heavy industry and toward light industry and services) resulting in new investments using technologies
that are energy efficient.
Pricing Principles
3.    Industrial Sector (all but households): The reduction in gas consumption has resulted in a
situation in which gas is demand constrained. In a liberalized energy market, in which independent gas
producers would compete for market share, gas supply would compete for market share with gas from
other sources (rather than petroleum products). Under such a scenario, gas prices would approach the
cost of supply (as has been the case in United States) rather than petroleum product equivalents. Over
the near term, the short run marginal cost of supply would reflect maintenance investments (as expansion
needs are expected to be limited over the near- to medium-term) in the existing system, resulting in a low
marginal cost of supply.
4.    As gas companies in the FSU are privatized, the financial cost of supply has become the primary
consideration in price setting. These utilities need prices to be set at sufficient levels to enable them to
cover their operating and maintenance costs and most of their investment costs due to the linited access
to capital. To establish the appropriate pricing signals (to provide an incentive for energy efficiency
investments and to enable new investments in downstream sectors to be based on an economically
efficient mix of labor, capital and energy), gas prices should reflect the full cost of supply (based on a
reasonable rate of return on revalued assets). It is important that prices are not simply increased to this
level, as this could result in generating excess cash for gas utilities, which would likely result in
(unearned) dividends to the shareholders (resulting in an undesirable transfer of wealth from gas
consumers to gas company employees). Given that the Government budget was the source of financing
for these investments, it is appropriate that the returns on these investments should be directed to the
Government. This can be accomplished by anyone of a number of financial instruments including by
imposing an excise tax which will enable the Government to receive a return on its equity and thus help



-53-
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 2
mitigate the fiscal deficit problem. This tax should be an interim measure that is gradually replaced by
corporate taxes as gas utilities start to replace the Government as the investor in the system's assets. Gas
prices would need to be increased to enable the gas utilities to finance part of their investments from
internally generated funds and to service a growing debt load. By taking Govermnent rent through
corporate taxes, incentives would also be established for corporate entities in the gas sector to improve
efficiency.
5.     In addition, gas should be sold at the "city gate" (or plant gate) at a price that reflects the cost
of extraction and delivery, and hence should be differentiated by region. Prices should also reflect the
seasonal variations in the cost of supply, explicitly valuing storage costs. (Gas supply during the winter
months is currently constrained by inadequate storage. Storage facilities need to be mobilized to enable
gas to capture more of the current market currently serviced by petroleum products.
6.     Using typical international gas equipment costs as a proxy to value Russia's gas system assets (as
the current book costs suffer numerous distortions), it has been estimated that the cost of supply to the
city gate in the Moscow region is about US$30 to US$35/MCM. Incremental supply costs to industries
in Russia have been much lower than other countries because the customer carries much of the
incremental investment costs. Hence, the total supply cost to industrial customers in the Moscow region
is estimated to be about US$35-US$40/MCM. Gas prices as of April 1995 are about 60-70 percent of
this target.
7.     Sales to Households: Gas prices for households would have to be increased by about 20-fold
(over the March 1995 levels) to reflect the full (replacement) cost of supply. However, since much of
the asset base is fully amortized and maintenance costs are low, March 1995 prices are estimated to cover
about 10% of the current cost of supply. With current income levels, increasing gas prices to fully
recover costs is clearly not feasible, since utility costs would exceed many households total income. This
problem can be addressed in one of three ways: (i) gas prices to households can be increased gradually,
while the difference between the financial cost of supply and the price charged to households is covered
by cross-subsidies from industrial consumption; (ii) gas prices to households could be increased gradually
as in (i), while the difference between the cost of supply and the price charged is explicitly identified and
financed from a Government budget transfer; or, (iii) gas prices could be increased to reflect the full cost
of supply and the customers would receive a cash transfer from the Government through a social safety
net to help pay for this increased cost.
8.     The advantage of the first option is that it is easy to implement and has a low administrative cost.
The disadvantage is that the incentive for households to conserve energy is relatively low, and that the
existing price distortion is addressed by introducing another price distortion. When this approach has
been used elsewhere, these distortions are usually retained for a longer period of time than is desirable.
The advantage of (ii) over (i) is that the price distortion to industries is avoided. However, experience
elsewhere indicates that these budget transfers are either slow in coming or aren't paid at all. (A good
example of this is the case of pensioners in Russia who receive gas at a 50 percent discount, while the
remaining 50 percent is expected to be paid by the municipality. Gas distribution companies complain
that this payment has not been forthcoming.) Option (ii) also suffers from an increased administrative
cost over option (i). The advantage of option (iii) is that all prices reflect their economic cost, providing
the consumer with appropriate incentives (households could profit considerably from adjusting their
consumption). However, it is administratively burdensome and difficult to implement. Therefore, the
recommended gas price strategy for households is to increase these prices gradually, while maintaining
financial viability for utilities through cross-subsidies if necessary. When a safety net is established, the
cross-subsidy should be removed and replaced by efficient gas prices to households.



-54-
Annex 5-1
Page 1 of 12
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
CHARTER, REGULATION AND ORGANIZATION OF
THE RUSSIAN ENERGY SAVINGS FOUNDATION
Approved:
First deputy minister
of fuel and power generation
of the Russian Federation
A.E. Evtushenko
July 29, 1992
CHARTER
of the state enterprise
The Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation Board
at the Ministry of Fuel and Power Generation of the Russian Federation
The state enterprise The Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation
Board (hereinafter the "Foundation Board") is a component of the Ministry of Fuel and Power
Generation of the Russian Federation. The Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-
Saving Foundation Board was established by Order No. 107a of the Ministry of Fuel and
Power Generation of the Russian Federation, dated August 3, 1992, in pursuance of
Resolution No 371 of the Government of the Russian Federation, dated June 1, 1992.
2.    The Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation Board shall act in
conformity with the Law of the Russian Federation "On enterprises and entrepreneurial
activity", and Regulations on the Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving
Foundation Board on the basis of cost-accounting; it shall have its own balance-sheet and
legal-entity status. The Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation
Board shall have a triangular stamp and a seal with the official emblem of the Russian
Federation and its name; it shall have settlement account No           with
; the Foundation Board shall be located at the following
address: 31 Ulitsa Gilyarovskogo, 129832 Moscow.
3.    The Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation Board shall be guided
in its operations by laws and decrees of the President of the Russian Federation, resolutions
and directives of the Government of the Russian Federation, ministered normative acts, and
this Charter.
4.    The Energy-Saving Foundation Board may create (reorganize and liquidate) subdivisions
(structural entities), subsidiaries, representative offices, branches and other affiliates which, in
turn, may open current accounts and settlement accounts; the Energy-Saving Foundation
Board shall endorse regulations governing operations of such entities. Joint ventures with
foreign partners may be set up if authorized by the Ministry of Fuel and Power Generation of



-55-
Annex 5-1
Page 2 of 12
the Russian Federation.
5.    Property of the Foundation Board shall include fixed assets, current assets and other valuables
recorded in a separate balance-sheet. It shall consist of the federal property of the Russian
Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation and the equity capital of the
enterprise. The sources of property of the Energy-Saving Foundation Board shall be the
federal property of the Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation and
the equity capital of the enterprise. The sources of property of the Energy-Saving Foundation
Board shall be the federal property of the Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-
Saving Foundation (to be formed in conformity with Regulations on the Foundation),
government investments, interest owned by other enterprises, profits from its operation and
other sources as envisaged by law. State property shall be assigned to the Foundation Board
for operation in keeping with relevant laws of the Russian Federation. Property acquired with
the employees' savings and the funds allocated out of profits for distribution among the
employees shall be used as stipulated by point III of the Resolution of the PSFSR Supreme
Soviet "On enforcement of the RSFSR Law "On property in the RSFSR".
The Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation Board may sell, assign,
exchange, lease, provide for temporary use at no charge and lend its property to other
enterprises; it may also write off, sell and lease its property to individual citizens.
6.    The statutory capital of the Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation
Board shall accumulate allocations in conformity with Regulations on the Russian
Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation Board. The Foundation Board may
also establish such other funds as are permitted by law.
7.    Returns on capital of the Foundation shall be distributed as stipulated by the Regulations on
the Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation. The Foundation Board
shall us revenues from its operations to build equity capital, with which it shall finance efforts
aimed at achieving its objectives. Distribution of profits from operations financed with the
equity capital of the enterprise shall be consistent with effective laws and other normative acts
of the government.
8.    The key objective of the Foundation Board shall consist in implementation at the inter-sectoral
level of the state energy-saving policy by means of financial, economic, legal, regulatory,
logistical and technical support. The scope of operation of the Foundation Board shall include
implementation of investment, financial, crediting and technical policies with respect to major
sectoral energy-saving projects and programs, and also commercial activity and business
intermediation, in conformity with relevant laws and requirements of the market economy.
In view of the above, the Foundation Board shall be entrusted with the following tasks
relating to management of the Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving
Foundation    Board:
-      investment activity, jointly with ministries, other govermnental agencies and regions,
with regard to implementation of inter-sectoral and major sectoral energy-saving projects and
programs;
-     development of the material base of the energy-saving process to meet demand in the



-56-
Annex 5-1
Page 3 of 12
economy for energy-saving equipment and devices, and organization of the energy-saving
equipment market;
-      optimization of economic techniques of managing the energy-saving activities,
preparation of regulatory acts and energy-consumption standards;
-      assessment and selection in a competitive process of the most cost-effective and
commercially attractive energy-saving projects;
-     organization, jointly with regional bodies of state administration, of control over
collection of payments to the federal and regional energy-saving funds, use of the funds;
-      training and re-training of staff, including study trips to other countries;
-      implementation of foreign economic activity in keeping with relevant laws;
coordination of use of financial resources of international foundations to implement joint
energy-saving programs, including programs involving other CIS states.
The Foundation Board shall accumulate earnings to finance implementation of the following
objectives:
-      creation and operation of systems providing information backup and advertising
support of energy-saving undertakings, legal consultations and legal assessment of
inter-sectoral projects and programs, insurance of investments by commercial structures and
foreign parties in the energy-saving sector in Russia;
-      technical assistance to regional energy-saving authorities, enterprises and
organizations;
-      preparation of projects and programs, and their assessment by expert groups appointed
directly by the Foundation Board;
-      implementation of energy-saving projects under the management by the Foundation
Board, with financing through credit resources of the Foundation;
-      commercial activity and business intermediation consistently with objectives of the
Foundation.
For the purposes of implementing the above tasks, the Foundation Board shall be vested with
the following powers:
-     to engage in commercial activity in pursuance of the objectives;
-      to open representative offices outside the Russian Federation, create joint ventures and
organizations for solution of scientific, technological, manufacturing and economic issues of
energy-saving; perform transactions involving purchase of shares of foreign firms and
organizations and real estate on the territory of foreign countries;
-      to define it8 own personnel structure and that of structural subdivisions; to define the



-57-
Annex 5-1
Page 4 of 12
terms, conditions and arrangements for payment of wages, salaries and bonuses;
-     to finance the operating costs of the Board out of its profits and by means of
allocating 20 percent of income received in the form of interest payments. During the first 12
months of operation of the Foundation Board shall be financed by the Foundation, and the
budget of the Board for that period shall be subject to approval by the Supervisory Council of
the Ministry of Fuel and Power Generation of the Russian Federation.
9.    The Board of the Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation shall be
headed by the Chairman of the Board (General Director) who shall be appointed by the
Ministry of Fuel and Power Generation in keeping with applicable regulations. The Chairman
of the Board shall be vested with the authority to take decisions on all matters concerning
operation of the Board; the Chairman of the Board shall be responsible to the Ministry as a
body of state administration for implementation of the key objectives, satisfaction of
government needs, compliance with standards of production, finance and economic
management, and for mobilization training and civil defense.
10.   Deputy general directors of the Foundation Board, chief officers of administrative and
structural subdivisions, and of affiliates shall be appointed and released from office by the
General Director of the Foundation Board. The scope of operation of the Foundation Board
shall include implementation of investment, financial, crediting and technical policies with
respect to major sectoral energy-saving projects and programs, and also commercial activity
and business intermediation, in conformity with relevant laws and requirements of the market
economy.
In view of the above, the Foundation Board shall be entrusted with the following tasks
relating to management of the Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving
Foundation Board:
-     investment activity, jointly with ministries, other governmental agencies and regions,
with regard to implementation of inter-sectoral and major sectoral energy-saving projects and
programs;
-     development of the material base of the energy-saving process to meet demand in the
economy for energy-saving equipment and devices, and organization of the energy-saving
equipment market;
-     optimization of economic techniques of managing the energy-saving activities,
preparation of regulatory acts and energy-consumption standards;
-     assessment and selection in a competitive process of the most cost-effective and
commercially attractive energy-saving projects;
-     organization, jointly with regional bodies of state administration, of control over
collection of payments the federal and regional energy-saving funds, use of funds;
-     training and re-training of staff, including study trips to other countries;
-     implementation of foreign economic activity in keeping with relevant laws;



-58-
Annex 5-1
Page 5 of 12
coordination of use of financial resources of international foundations to implement joint
energy-saving programs, including programs involving other CIS states.
The Foundation Board shall accumulate earnings to finance implementation of the following
objectives:
-      creation and operation of systems providing information backup and advertising
support of energy-saving undertakings, legal consultations and legal assessment of
inter-sectoral projects and programs, insurance of investments by commercial structures and
foreign parties in the energy-saving sector in Russia;
-     technical assistance to regional energy-saving authorities, enterprises and
organizations;
11.   The General Director of the Foundation Board shall be vested with the power to approve the
structure and staff of the Russian Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation
Board, regulations on structural subdivisions and affiliates; the General Director shall enjoy
the authority to appoint and dismiss employees of the Foundation Board, pay bonuses, and
impose disciplinary sanctions on employees in keeping with the relevant procedure.
12.   The employees of the Foundation Board shall exercise their rights primarily through the
employees' meeting. The scope of authority of the employees' meeting shall be as follows:
-      review and amendment of the Charter of the Foundation Board, subject to approval by
the Ministry of Fuel and Power Generation of the Russian Federation;
decisions on creation, reorganization and liquidation of affiliates;
decisions on accession to, and secession from, voluntary associations;
-      other matters stipulated in the Law of the Russian Federation "On enterprises and
entrepreneurial activity".
13.   The Foundation Board shall elect a council of the work collective for a term of 3 years. The
council shall include the General Director, chief officers and representatives of work
collectives of structural subdivisions or affiliates. The council shall take decisions by majority
of vote provided there is a quorum of at least two thirds of its members.
The council of the work collective shall deal with the following:
define a development strategy of the enterprise;
-      review other matters as envisaged in regulations approved by the meeting.
14.   All documents authorizing payment or acceptance of money or other valuables, or dealing
with payments and lending to enterprises and organization on terms subject to modification,
shall be signed by the General Director (the first deputy general director in the absence of the
general director) and the Chief Accountant of the Foundation Board.



-59-
Annex 5-1
Page 6 of 12
15.   Control over operation and storage of state property of the Foundation Fund shall be
exercised by the Ministry of Fuel and Power Generation or in the rnanner defined by the
ministry, through comprehensive audits of operations, and by financial and banking
institutions within their scope of authority.
16.   The Ministry shall form a Supervisory Council consistently with regulations on the
Foundation, to coordinate investments and financial operations of the Foundation, to
coordinate investments and financial operations of the Foundation Board, and to define a
strategy for implementation of major inter-sectoral projects and programs. Composition of
the Council shall be agreed with relevant organizations of the Ministry of Fuel and Power
Generation of the Russian Federation.
The Council shall include eminent researchers and experts, officials of the Ministry of Fuel
and Power Generation of the Russian Federation and of other ministries, the Foundation
Board, regional energy-saving sector with materials or equipment.
The order of priority, contents and effectiveness of research shall be judged by the
inter-sectoral Scientific-Technical Council attached to the Russian Extra-budgetary
Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation Board.
17.    Liquidation and reorganization (merger, acquisition, break-up, transformation) of the Russian
Extra-budgetary Inter-sectoral Energy-Saving Foundation board shall be governed by relevant
legislative acts of the Russian Federation.



-60-
Annex 5-1
Page 7 of 12
The Ministry of Fuel           The Ministry of economy              The Ministry of
and Energy of the              of the Russian Federation            Finance of the
Russian Federation                                                  Russian Federation
REGULATION
of the Russian extra-budgetary interindustrial
energy saving fund
General provisions
1.    The Russian extra-budgetary interindustrial energy saving fund hereinafter referred to
as the Energy Saving Fund is set up in compliance with the Regulation of the Government of the
Russian Federation of June 1, 1992 No. 371 "On urgent energy saving measures in the field of
extraction, production, transportation and utilization of oil, gas and oil products" in view of providing
financial support to government energy saving policy.
2.    The Energy Saving Fund performs its activities on regional as well as on federal
levels as an entity comprised of regional extra-budgetary Energy Saving Funds, set up under
paragraph 1, article 20 of the Russian Federation Law of March 5, 1992 "On Soviets of People's
Deputies of krajs and oblasts and on Administrations of krajs and oblasts" as well as of the Federal
extra-budgetary fund.
3.    The Energy Saving Fund is managed, in conformity with Regulation of the Russian
Federation Government of June 1, 1992 No. 371, by the Management Board of the Energy Saving
Fund, incorporated within the system of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the Russian Federation as
an economically independent legal entity. The guidelines for the utilization of the Energy Saving
Fund's resources are coordinated by the Supervisory Board of the Fund, set up by the Ministry.
Coordination of works, connected with the utilization of resources of regional Energy Saving
Funds, is carried out by the relevant departments and energy committees of administrations of krajs and
oblasts. Regional Energy Saving Funds are managed by self-supporting energy saving centers and other
similar structures, set up by administrations of krajs and oblasts, on the accounts of which the resources
of those funds are accumulated.
The Management Board of the Energy Saving Fund provides methodical guidance and takes part
in the activities of energy saving centers of krajs and oblasts in view of promoting the government energy
saving policy and providing it with financial and technological support.
4. The Management Board of the Energy Saving Fund as well as the regional energy saving
centers are governed in their activities by the Constitution of the Russian Federation, laws and other
legal acts, adopted by congresses of people's deputies of the Russian Federation and by the Supreme
Soviet of the Russian Federation, decrees and ordinances of the President of the Russian Federation,
the Govermnent of the Russian Federation, charters of the Management Board of the Energy Saving
Fund and of regional energy saving centers, as well as by the present Regulation.



-61-
Annex 5-1
Page 8 of 12
Forming of the Energy Saving Fund
5. Resources of the Russian extra-budgetary Energy Saving Fund on federal and regional levels
are formed out of:
- quarterly remittances by industrial, construction and transport enterprises and organizations
of 0.5 per cent of cost of energy resources consumed over the previous quarter, including the
above sums into the costs of production (works, services) of the above enterprises;
- payments of statutory penal sanctions for irrational utilization of fuel and energy resources;
- resources allocated to the Management Board of the Fund and to regional energy saving
centers out of federal and local budgets as well as received from other sources for carrying
out their investment activities, financing research and development and other energy saving
programs, as well as those received in form of dividends, interests on deposits and on loans
and other proceeds from their economic and commercial activities;
- donations of legal and physical entities.
Administrations of krajs and oblasts are permitted to use part of resources of environmental funds to
form their regional Energy Saving Funds.
6. Industrial transport and construction enterprises, consuming fuel and energy resources, are
to make quarterly remittances, starting with the fourth quarter, 1992, to the accounts of federal and
regional funds, to the amount of 0.5 per cent of the cost of energy resources, actually consumed by
them in the previous quarter. The above sums are included into the cost of production (works,
services) of the above enterprises and organizations, as provided for by Regulation of the Government
of the Russian Federation of August 5, 1992 No. 552 "On adoption of the Regulation -n expenses on
production and sale, included in the costs of production (works, services) and on the methods of
accounting financial results for the purposes of taxation".
The above resources are to be remitted by enterprises and organizations to the Energy Saving
Fund on the following pro rata basis:
- to the Federal Energy Saving Fund - 30 per cent;
- to regional Energy Saving Funds at the place of location of enterprises and organizations 70 per
cent.
Budgetary organizations, providing services to population, public utilities and social sector
organizations, farms, collective farms, state farms are exempt from such payments.
Payments to Energy Saving Funds are effected for the consumption of the following fuel and
energy resources: natural gas, engine fuel, coal, electric and thermal energy. Administrative bodies of
krajs, oblasts, autonomies of the Russian Federation, of Moscow and St.Petersburg, as well as the
Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the Russian Federation advise the above enterprises and organizations
of account numbers of Energy Saving Funds.
7. In compliance with Regulation of the Russian Federation Government of June 1, 1992
No. 371 the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Science,
Higher and Technical Education of the Russian Federation starting with 1993 provide joint financing
on an annual basis of research and development in the field of energy saving technologies out of
relevant extra-budgetary funds.
8. Payment of statutory penal sanctions for irrational utilization of fuel and energy
resources are earmarked for regional Energy Saving Funds on terms and conditions provided for by
law.



-62-
Annex 5-1
Page 9 of 12
9. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the Russian Federation as well as other ministries
and departments of the Russian Federation, which have set up extra-budgetary investment funds,
provide financing of energy saving expenditures, proposed by the Management Board of the Energy
saving - fund, connected with implementation of energy saving programs, to the amount of 1 per cent
of the relevant extra-budgetary investment funds.
10. Legal and physical entities, as a rule, make their donations to their local Energy Saving
Funds.
11. Enterprises and organizations, making remittances to the Federal as well as regional
Eenergy Saving Funds, charge the above sums to the debit of production accounts and to the credit
of account 67 of chart of accounts, approved by the Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Russian
Federation on December 19, 1991, No. 18-05.
Remittances are credited by banks to special accounts of Federal and regional Energy Saving
Funds, opened by the Management Board of the Energy Saving Fund as well as by energy saving
centers of krajs and oblasts and by other similar self-supporting organizations, set up by local
administrative bodies.
Responsibility for timely and accurate remittances of the above resources is borne by
enterprises and organizations, effecting such payments, as provided for by law.
Guidelines for utilization of the Energy Saving Fund's resources
12. Resources of the Federal fund are allocated for large-scale inter-industrial and inter-
regional energy saving programs mostly on the basis of equity participation in joint stock companies
and other enterprises and organizations, granting soft loans and other forms of activities.
Resources of the Federal fund are to be allocated mainly for the following purposes:
- financing of research and development, providing legal consultations and creating legal
framework as well as of working out energy consumption standards;
- supporting energy saving programs, taking into account their environmental aspects, on the
basis of equity participation with organizations, commissioning such works, the contribution of which
may not be less than 40 per cent of total costs of the above programs;
- financial support of the development of production of sophisticated energy saving equipment,
used for interindustrial purposes, of energy efficient energy utilizing equipment, produced on a
large-scale basis, as well as financing of creating the market infrastructure -or energy saving
equipment;
- financial support of energy saving projects, connected with the complex production of highly
efficient materials, constructions, equipment, technical re-tooling of enterprises, which ensures the
engagement of energy saving reserves;
- granting soft loans to small and medium-size energy saving projects, which have undergone
necessary technical and economic expert examination, directed at support of large-scale energy
saving programs, production of consumer goods, foodstuffs, development of farms, construction of
energy saving housing.
13. Resources of regional funds are allocated for financing of territorial interindustrial energy
saving programs, development of local base for the production of energy saving equipment used for
interindustrial purposes, financial support of activities as well as providing adequate technical
facilities to regional expert councils and extra-ministerial bodies, supervising the efficient utilization
of fuel and energy.



-63-
Annex 5-1
Page 10 of 12
14. Administrative bodies of krajs, oblasts, regional energy saving committees and other
relevant local organizations utilize resources of regional Energy Saving Funds as provided for by the
present Regulation.
15. Soft loans are granted by the Management Board of the Energy Saving Fund as well as
by energy saving centers of krajs and oblasts (and other similar structures) after approval of their
plans and programs by the Supervisory Board or by energy committees of krajs and oblasts
respectively. Interest payable on the above loans granted out of the Fund's resources is determined
by the Management Board of the Energy Saving Fund, as a rule, for two years to the amount of up to
50 per cent. Part of interest payments, not exceeding 20 per cent, is used for financing of the
Management Board of the Energy Saving Fund.
16. In view of providing additional economic incentives to enterprises, designing and
producing energy saving equipment, to ensure higher technical level of the above equipment and
increase its production volumes, according to decisions taken by energy committees as well as by the
Management Board of the Energy Saving Fund, resources of Federal and regional Energy Saving
Funds may be allocated for grants, given for the following purposes:
- equity participation in the financing of research and development in interindustrial fields up to 50 per cent
of its cost;
- development of production of trial lots of energy saving equipment, equipment for utilization of
non-traditional energy resources, equipment for utilization of local energy resources, recycled wastes and secondary
energy resources - up to 25 per cent;
- construction and refurbishing of buildings, ensuring higher energy efficiency, up to normative levels - 25 per
cent.
The amount of resources, allocated for grants given out of regional Energy Saving Funds, is not to exceed
20 per cent of their annual proceeds. Enterprises and organizations, consuming fuel and energy, which ensure
sustainable increase of utilization of secondary energy resources, in view of providing incentives to them, may be
refunded for 20 per cent of their expenditures, connected with the carrying out of such works.
Resources of the Energy Saving Fund are being used for setting up an information database of energy
efficient technologies, for creating a legal framework for the system of management, which is being established,
for insurance of investments into energy saving programs, made by domestic and foreign companies and firms,
for training of staff, including training abroad.
17.   Enterprises and organizations, ensuring the carrying out of expert examination of their energy
stocks to find reserves for energy saving with the help of special diagnostic devices, may be refunded for 25 per
cent of total costs of such works out of resources of Energy Saving Funds of krajs and oblasts.
Resources of the Energy Saving Fund are allocated primarily for providing incentives for examining energy
stock of enterprises and organizations consuming in excess of 30 thousand tones of coal equivalent, heating boilers
with the capacity in excess of 10 hectocalories per hour, heating units of magistral heating networks
18.   Benefits under pp. 15, 16 and 17 of the present Regulation are primarily granted to enterprises
and organizations, which ensure the carrying out of expert examinations of their energy stocks.
Supervision over forming and utilization
of resources of the Eneryv Saving Fund
19.   Enterprises and organizations, relevant government agencies, connected with the ensuring of



-64-
Annex 5-1
Page 11 of 12
proper utilization of the Energy Saving Fund resources on both federal and regional levels, are not permitted to
use the above resources for purposes, not provided for by the present Regulation.
20.   Supervision over the accuracy and timeliness of payments to federal and regional Energy
Saving Funds is to be carried out by the relevant administrative bodies of krajs and oblasts as well as by the
Energy Saving Fund Management Board.
21.   The Management Board of the Energy Saving Fund as well as self-supporting energy saving
centers set up by administrations of krajs and oblasts and other similar structures bear responsibility for the
proper utilization of the Fund's resources.
22.   Should the competent bodies detect the breach of the order of utilization of the Fund's
resources, provided for by the above Regulation, officials, directly responsible for the above wrongdoing/ are
to be brought to responsibility under the Russian Federation Rules of law in force. The Management Board of
the Russian Federation Extra-budgetary Inter-industrial Energy Saving Fund as well as regional energy saving
centers are to ensure the including of provisions on penal sanctions for breach of order of utilization of the
Fund's resources into contracts to be concluded with their employees.
Deputy Minister of               Deputy Minister of            Deputy Minister of
Fuel and Energy of               Economy of the                Finance of the
the Russian Federation           Russian Federation            Russian Federation
A.1.Baranovsky                   V.S.Yevsyukov                 I.P.Moltchanov
November 20, 1 992               November 1 9, 1 992           November 1 9, 1 992
B-6666/19                        VE-I-D                        No. 108



-65-
Annex 5-1
Page 12 of 12
RESF - Organization Chart
Council of Observers
I
[i                        ~~~~~~~~~Board of Directors
Chairman
l                     I
VP Technology         VP Economics
Technology Council                                Accounting Department
Head, Projects       Head, Regional         Head, Loans          Head, External
& Appraisals         Programs               & Finance            Relations
I|Sector Branches (Currently 11)
I Regional Centers (Currently 12)



-66-
Annex 6-1
Page 1 of 9
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
DESCRIPTION AND COSTS OF ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS
1.    The objective of the Energy Efficiency component of the Gas Rehabilitation Project is to identify
and implement energy-saving measures that will increase the efficiency of natural gas use in the district
heating and combined heat and power plants and satisfy the criteria of economic and financial feasibility.
Natural gas use was assessed in four Russian cities - Ryazan, Saratov, Volgograd and Voronezh. All
these cities have similar gas supply systems.
2.    Typically all cities have two to five cogeneration plants owned by the energy utility; for example,
Ryazanenergo, which generates electricity and heat. The heating medium, usually hot water, is heated
in hot water boilers and/or steam-water heat exchangers by steam extracted from the turbines. The hot
water is pumped through the transmission piping to the intermediate substations owned by municipal
district heating companies that resell the heat to the customers. The power plants do not usually sell heat
directly to the customers, although there are exceptions. In turn, municipal companies usually have their
own hot water boilers, and besides the resold heat energy, sell hot water directly to the customers.
Generally, the customers do not have heat energy meters. The power plants and municipal boiler plants
have flow meters but often they are not accurate or not functioning. The nominal efficiency of boilers
installed at power plants is relatively high at close to 90 percent, although the real operational efficiency
is lower due to inadequate automatic combustion control, while that of the municipal boilers is very low,
ranging from 45 percent to 50 percent.
3.    The gas conservation measures recommended include:
-     burner and boiler replacements at municipal boilers;
-     implementation of portable control instrumentation sets for diagnostics at power plants
and municipal boilers to achieve better operational efficiency;
-     installation of automated control systems at boiler plants; and
-     installation of automatic temperature controls and heat energy meters at heat substations.
4.    During project preparation, a number of subprojects were identified for the DH/CHP plants in
each of the cities, all of which met the minimum EIRR requirement of 20 percent. During appraisal, a
selection of two to three subprojects in each city were advanced considerably and are ready for
preparation of draft tender documents. The full range of identified subprojects are summarized in Tables
1 through 4. Those projects whose preparation was advanced during the appraisal mission are described
in Section A to D below and summarized in Tables 5 through 8. All of the projects satisfy the criterion
of a 20-percent internal rate of return on gas savings except a proposed US$ 3 million boiler replacement
project in Voronezh where the return on gas savings remains at 14 percent, but with other benefits at 19
percent.
A. City of Ryazan
5.    District heating is supplied from three primary sources including Ryazanenergo that owns two
co-generation power plants (Novoryazanskaya TETS and Dyagilevskaya TETS), the Municipal District
Heating Company and Industrial Boiler Plants.
6.    The Novo-Ryazanskaya TETS CO, Ltd is a producer of electricity, steam, and hot water, and



-67-
Annex 6-1
Page 2 of 9
was privatized in 1994. The station is rated at 400 MW electric production and installed thermal capacity
of 2009 Gcal/hr. There is approximately 160 km of piping in this system. The district heating piping
is generally above ground until it reaches the city substation interfaces. There are approximately 100
substations in the system and each substation serves 10 to 20 buildings. Some older apartment buildings,
large factories, and hospitals typically have their own heating boilers. In 1993 the power plant consumed
about 1 million m3 of natural gas and some 300,000 tons of mazut. The power production was about
2,000 GWh.
7.    The gas saving recommendations include:
-     installation of automated controls and replacing the burners at boilers; and
-     implementation of a portable set of control instrumentation for
diagnostics and control.
8.    The Municipal District Heating Company (municipal department) has a heat-only capacity of
1,545 Gcal/hr. Recommended gas-saving measures include installation of automated temperature controls
and heat energy meters at 35 heat substations;
9.    The total implementation cost for the selected district heating gas conservation projects in Ryazan
is $ 2.0 million and the expected reduction in gas consumption is 22 million m3 per year.
B.    City of Saratov
10.   District heating in Saratov is supplied from Saratovenergo - an open joint stock company
(privatized 1993) - which owns four cogeneration power plants, GRES, TETS 1, TETS 2, TETS 5 and
a district heating boiler plant, and the Municipal District Heating Company which owns 52 boiler plants
and 33 substations. Additional plants owned by various Saratov entities include Industrial Boiler Plants
consisting of 196 boiler facilities and District Heating Boiler Plants consisting of 304 heat-only boiler
facilities.
11.   The Municipal District Heating Company owns 52 boiler plants and 33 substations.
Thirty-three substations separate the responsibility of the central cogeneration plant system from the
municipal district heating systems. In 1993, total gas consumption by 52 municipally owned heat-only
boiler plants was reported as approximately 30,000 (1000) m3. The average efficiency of boiler plants
is 50-52 percent. Total peak heat load of the 52 boiler plants is estimated at 55 Gcal/hr. Dates of
installation range from 1954 to 1990.
12.   Gas saving recommendations include:
-     replacement of old burners at municipal boilers with new high-efficiency burners and
associated controls; and
-     implementation of a portable set of express control instrumentation for diagnostics and
monitoring.
13.   Saratovenergo Ltd owns Saratov GRES, TETS 1, TETS 2 and TETS 5. Saratov GRES has a
total capacity of 55 MW. The date of installation ranges from 1941 to 1985. There are nine steam
boilers installed, rated from 45 to 95 tons/hr, and a total heating capacity of 276 Gcal/hr. The GRES
produced and supplied to the customers 1,353,204 Gcal of heat in 1992. TETS I has a total capacity of
25 MW and the total heating capacity of the plant is 276 Gcallhr. The TETS produced and supplied to
the customers 976,440 Gcal of heat in 1992. The total gas consumption in 1992 was 140,505 (1000) in3
TETS 2 has a total capacity of 315 MW and a total heating capacity of 1,090 Gcal/hr. It produced and



-68-
Annex 6-1
Page 3 of 9
supplied to the customers 4,127,286 Gcal of heat in 1992. The total gas consumption in 1992 was
702,987 (1000) m3. TETS 5 has a total capacity of 440 MW (electric) and 1240 Gcal/hr (heating)
including 700 Gcal/hr - heating capacity of turbines. The total gas consumption for 1992 was 565,168
(1000) m3 and a the total amount of heat supplied was 2,537,892 Gcal. The total fuel consumption of
Saratovenergo for 1993 was 286,000 (1000) m3 of gas and 997,000 ton mazut.
14.   Saratovenergo supplies heat in transmission lines to the substations. This piping ranges in
diameter from 325 to 1220 mm. Lower diameter piping is the responsibility of the municipal district
heating company. There are approximately 500 km of primary piping installed in Saratov of which 200
km are owned by Saratovenergo. The balance is owned by the municipal district heating company and
industrial sites. The 33 substations are owned by the municipal district heating company.
15.   The gas saving measures include:
Saratovenergo:
- portable set of diagnostic instrumentation; and
- TETS-5 burner replacement and associated automatic combustion controls.
Municipal district heating company:
- burner replacement and associated automatic controls; and
- automatic temperature controls at heat substations.
16.   The total implementation cost for selected district heating gas conservation projects in Saratov
is $ 4.1 million and the expected reduction in gas consumption is 47 million m3 per year.
C.    City of Volgograd
17.   District heating is supplied from three primary sources including:
-      WVolgogradenergo (open joint stock company) which owns three cogeneration power
plants - GRES, TETS-2 and TETS-3, and 3 district heating boiler plants;
*     Municipal District Heating Company (municipal departement) owns 470 boilers with
1506 Gcal/h capacity and 170 heat substations; and
-     Industrial Boiler Plants consisting of 189 boiler facilities.
18.   The fuel consumed by Volgogradenergo was 2,900,000 (1000 m3) of gas and 580,000 ton of
mazut in 1993. The fuel consumed by the municipal district heating company was 427,000 (1000 m3) of
gas.
19.   The gas saving measures proposed for the Volgogradenergo include:
-     replacement of old burners with new high-efficiency burners with associated controls at
TETS 2 and 3.
20.   The Municipal District Heating Company owns total 470 boilers and 170 heat substations.
21.   The proposed gas saving measures are:
-     implementation of a portable set of control instrumentation for diagnostics and control;
and
-     installation of automatic temperature controls at 170 heatsubstations.



-69-
Annex 6-1
Page 4 of 9
22.   The total implementation cost for selected district heating gas conservation projects in Volgograd
is $ 3.6 million and the expected reduction in gas consumption is 69 million m3 per year.
D.    City of Voronezh
23.   District heating is supplied from three primary sources, including Voronezhenergo, the Municipal
District Heating Company, and Industrial Boiler Plants consisting of 10 boiler facilities.
24.   Voronezhenergo (open joint stock company) owns two cogeneration power plants - TETS- I and
TETS-2, a District Heating Company which purchases heat from cogeneration plants and two small boiler
rooms containing 8 boilers. TETS-1 and TETS-2 produce about 25 percent of the total heat consumed
by the city. The plants supply this heat to the Voronezhenergo DH Company which produces an
additional 10-12 percent of heat and sells all the heat produced by Voronezhenergo (35-37 percent of the
total heat supply) to its customers. TETS 1 has a heating capacity of 1,550 Gcal/hr and an electric
capacity of 165 MW; Voroneshenergo's fuel consumption in 1993 was 1,960,000 (1000 m3) gas and
106,000 ton of mazut.
Gas saving recommendations include:
-     replacement of burners and installation of associated automated controls at existing boilers
at TETS-1; and
-     Implementing a portable set of instrumentation for diagnostics and control of the existing
equipment.
The Municipal District Heating Company is a part of the city administration; its 137 boilers supply
about 20 percent of the city's district heating needs.
25.   Gas saving measures include:
-     replacement of old boilers with new high-efficiency boilers with associated controls; and
-     automatic temperature controls for heat substations.
26.   The total implementation cost for selected district heating gas conservation projects in Voronezh
is $ 4.4 million and the expected reduction in gas consumption is 37 million m3 per year.
E.    Summary - Tables 9 and 10 summarize the potential and the evaluated projects in the four cities,
in terms of total capital cost and total annual gas savings. In order to mazimize the impact of the
proposed investment in energy savings subprojects, RESF has been encouraged to replicate the "evaluate"
projects shown in Table 10 in other cities (initially, St. Petersburg, followed by Vladimir, Samara, Nizhi-
Novgorod, Rostov-on-Don and Stavropol). This would result in total expected gas savings of about 0.5
BCM per year, based on disbursement of the full amount of the loan directed towards energy efficiency
(US$60 million) is disbursed.



-70-
Annex 6-1
Page 5 of 9
Table 1
POTENTIAL DISTRICT HEATING SUBPROJECTS: RYAZAN
Investment   Gas           IRR
SUBPROJECT                      Cost          Savings       (percent)
('93 $000)    (mcm/yr)
Novoryanskaya TETS - Control Instrumentation             100         1,660      84
Municipal DH Co. - Instrumentation                       800        11,200      72
Municipal DH Co. - Automated Controls                    420         4,760      59
Municipal DH Co. - New Burners                          1,440       15,900      57
Dyagilevskaya TETS - Reduced Air Infiltration             63           650      54
Novoryanskaya TETS - Reduced Air Infiltration            115         1,100      50
Novoryanska TETS - Automated Controls                    120         1,120      49
Dyagilevskaya TETS - Economizer                          394         2,250      31
Ryazanenergo - Btu Meters and Controls                 5,050        26,900      29
TOTAL                                                  8,502        65,540
Table 2
POTENTIAL DISTRICT HEATING SUBPROJECTS: SARATOV
Investment   Gas           IRR
SUBPROJECT                      Cost          Savings       (percent)
('93 $000)    (mcm/yr)
Municipal DH Co. - Instrumentation                       225         2,850      65
TETS 5 - Reduced Air Infiltration                         90           750      44
Municipal DH - New Burners                               420         3,100      39
Saratovenergo - Btu Meters and Controls                8,550        48,180      30
TETS 5 - Condensing Economizer                          1,500        6,300      22
TOTAL                                                 10,785        61,180



-71-
Annex 6-1
Page 6 of 9
Table 3
POTENTIAL DISTRICT HEATING SUBPROJECTS: VOLGOGRAD
Investment   Gas Savings  IRR
SUBPROJECT                      Cost  ('93   (mcm/yr)    (percent)
$000)
Volgogradenergo - Instrumentation                        222         8,050      174
Municipal DH Co.- Instrumentation                        902        23,143      126
Voroshilovsky - Instrumentation                           90         1,864      103
Municipal DH Co. - New Burners                         1,400        21,900      79
Volgogradenergo - New Burners                          1,577        14,100     478
Voroshilovsky - New Burners                              596         4,200      37
Municipal DH Co. - New Boilers                         8,870        34,700      21
TOTAL                                                 13,657       107,957
Table 4
POTENTIAL DISTRICT HEATING SUBPROJECTS: VORONEZH
Investment   Gas Savings  IRR
SUBPROJECT                      Cost  ('93  (mcm/yr)    (percent)
$000)
Municipal DH Co. - Automated Controls                    308         4,000      67
TETS I - Automated Controls                              170         2,040      62
TETS 1 - Reduced Air Infiltration                        120         1,350      58
TETS 2 - Reduced Air Infiltration                         63           600      50
TETS 2 - Automated Controls                               84           550      35
Municipal DH Co. - New Burners                         1,782         8,800      26
Voronezhenergo - Btu Meters and Controls               6,550        27,500      22
TOTAL                                                  9,077        44,840



-72-
Annex 6-1
Page 7 of 9
Table 5
EVALUATED DISTRICT HEATING SUBPROJECTS: RYAZAN
Investment   Gas           IRR
SUBPROJECT                       Cost          Savings      (percent)
('94 $000)    (mcm/yr)
Novo-Ryazanskaya TETS - Portable Instrumentation           30           2.0     High
Novo-Ryazanskaya TETS - Burner Replacement and          1,678          10.0      24
Automated Controls
Municipal DH - Automatic Temperature Controls             322          10.0      130
TOTAL                                                   2,030          22.0
Table 6
EVALUATED DISTRICT HEATING SUBPROJECTS: SARATOV
Investment   Gas           IRR
SUBPROJECT                       Cost          Savings       (percent)
('94 $000)    (mcm/yr)
Saratovenergo - Portable Instrumentation                  120           3.1      146
Saratovenergo TETS 5 - Burner Replacement and           2,848          17.4      25
Automated Controls
Municipal DH - Automatic Temperature Controls             695          18.0      143
Municipal DH - New Burners                                470           9.0      84
TOTAL                                                   4,133          47.5



-73-
Annex 6-1
Page 8 of 9
Table 7
EVALUATED DISTRICT HEATING SUBPROJECTS: VOLGOGRAD
Investment   Gas Savings  IRR
SUBPROJECT                       Cost  ('94   (mcm/yr)    (percent)
$000) -E 2 rsdu an62
Volgogradenergo - TETS-2 Burners and Automation           986           6.2      26
Volgogradenergo - TETS-3 Burners and Automation           986           6.0      25
Municipal DH  Company - Portable instrumentation          141           4.3      193
Municipal DH Co. - Automatic Temperature                1,490          52.9      276
Controls
TOTAL                                                   3,603          69.4
Table 8
EVALUATED DISTRICT HEATING SUBPROJECTS: VORONEZH
Investment   Gas Savings  IRR
SUBPROJECT                       Cost  ('94  (mcm/yr)    (percent)
$000)
Voronezhenergo - TETS-1 burners and automation            567           3.1      23
Voronezhenergo - Portable Instrumentation                 155           3.3      109
Municipal DH - Automatic Temperature Controls             663          18.6      168
Municipal DH - Small Boiler Replacement                 3,100          11.7      14 1)
TOTAL                                                   4,485          36.7
1) with other benefits (longer ass et life) abt. 19 percent



-74-
Annex 6-1
Page 9 of 9
Table 9
COST SUMMARY
(1994 US $000)
District Heating Conservation Projects
City                Potential           Evaluated
Ryazan                   8,502               2,030
Saratov                  10,785              4,133
Volgograd                13,657              3,603
Voronezh                 9,077               4,485
TOTAL                   42,021              14,251
Table 10
SUMMARY OF GAS SAVINGS
(M3 000)
District Heating Conservation Projects
City                Potential           Evaluated
Ryazan                  65,540              22,000
Saratov                 61,180              47,500
Volgograd              107,957              69,400
Voronezh                44,840              36,700
TOTAL                  279,517             175,600



-75-
Annex 6-2
Page 1 of 24
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
GDC TRAINING/TWINNING ARRANGEMENTS
Summary
As gas distribution companies (GDC) in Russia move from state-ownership and control into being
investor-owned joint stock companies, there is an urgent need for substantial enlargement of their
management, financial, marketing and to a more limited extent, technical skills. Each GDC would
benefit from a significant number of its senior employees being exposed, in depth, to practices in
commercially run gas companies. The scale of the requirement would best be met by "twinning"
arrangements between Russian and foreign gas utilities. The overall cost for each twinning arrangement
is estimated to cost about US$1.6m over a two-year period.
Background
The process of transforming local GDCs in Russia into joint stock companies was initiated by Presidential
Decree in December 1992 and is now well advanced. Final clearance of each individual organization's
proposals has been given for about 50 percent of all the utilities by August 1993 and the remainder are
expected to be approved by November. Allocation of shares follows shortly after approval with
employees of an enterprises owning either 40 percent or 51 percent, depending on the variant chosen.
The remaining shares will be held for the next 3 years by various municipal and state bodies, after which
a decision will be made on further disposals.
Or2anization
The Board of Directors of the new companies will initially comprise the General Director of the
company, representatives of municipal and state bodies and a Trade Union representative. Internally,
companies will probably follow existing practice, using a Management Board comprising the General
Director, Deputy Directors and up to 5-10 Heads of Departments. Employee numbers range from a few
hundred in the smaller city companies up to several thousand in the larger city and regional companies.
Typically, they are organized into 3 main functional groups - engineering (employing the great majority),
economic and financial (mainly billing and bookkeeping) and general administrative services (stores and
buildings).
Training Requirements
Six gas distribution companies (Ryazan, Voronezh, Volgograd, Saratov, Stavropol and Rostov-on-the
Don) have been visited by World Bank missions to prepare the proposed Gas Distribution Reconstruction
and Energy Efficiency Project. These missions have concluded that the senior management of the
companies need to upgrade their skills to enable them to manage their new business entities in a
commercial environment.  They appear to be proceeding on the assumption that their present
organizational structure will continue to be appropriate and that management issues and practices will be
little changed. This is understandable in the light of the many other urgent problems that they have had
to handle over the last year, but does not provide a good basis for taking advantage of their new status.
Managers in the GDCs will in fact need to adapt rapidly to a changing environment, and to take
responsibility for their business strategies and decisions. In these new circumstances, there are many



-76-
Annex 6-2
Page 2 of 24
areas where existing staff have not had the exposure to the business skills which they will require. This
is not to doubt that the staff have the capacity to acquire these skills but, up to now, there have been no
means for them to do so.
Senior managers in all the utilities visited regret that they have had little or no opportunity for contacts
with their counterparts in gas utilities operating abroad. They are particularly concerned about this in
respect of engineering developments and are less focused on the gap in management practices because
of the lack of familiarity with business management in a market economy. However, there is a general
awareness of the need to develop new skills and there is no doubt that initiatives to meet this need would
be welcomed.
Such institutional reform and development would require staff at a range of different levels to be trained
to understand more fully the demands placed on an investor-owned company in a market economy, and
to acquire the professional expertise that is necessary to meet these demands. The scope for training is,
therefore, considerable, both in the range of topics to be covered and in the number of managers within
each company who would benefit.
In view of the urgency of initiating comprehensive training arrangements, it is desirable to proceed
simultaneously on a number of fronts. For example, training should be provided in parallel both for the
top management and for middle-management. A good grounding in business management practices for
top managers will pay off quickly only if trained supporting staff are available to implement the new
procedures. Conversely, training middle-management specialists in modern techniques could lead to
disillusion and cynicism if top management is then not receptive and eager to use these techniques in its
decision-making.
The specialist areas that should be covered include business planning, accounting and finance, investment
appraisal, systems development (including use of computers), sales and marketing, procurement,
personnel management, shareholder services and efficiency improvement. Some technical training may
be provided by consultants and contractors as part of reconstruction and energy efficiency projects but
more comprehensive training in modern gas distribution engineering practices is also desirable. These
areas are set out in more detail in the Annex.
For the most senior management in each company more general training should be provided on managing
a joint stock company, including accountability to a Board of Directors and shareholders. Senior
managers also require a broad initiation into the more specialist areas so that they can be aware of their
potential benefits and properly manage the newly-trained staff.
Length and Character of Training
Management and technical skills cannot be acquired overnight and theoretical classroom training is of
limited value. To meet the objectives outlined above, a significant number of employees in each GDC
should spend a period of at least three months, and preferably six months, working in a gas distribution
utility abroad. Experience has shown (particularly the technical assistance component of the Marshall
Plan) that on-the-job training of this kind is effective in communicating both theoretical and practical
knowledge, while stimulating enthusiasm and a desire to exercise the new skills. It is important,
however, to recognize that the trainee must have acquired a working knowledge of the language of the
host country before embarking on the training process. It would be impractical to provide an interpreter
with each trainee and much of value would be lost if language were a serious obstacle. Trainees should,
therefore, receive adequate language training before travel and the cost should be included in the financial



-77-
Annex 6-2
Page 3 of 24
provision. The rapid acquisition of language skill also requires enthusiasm and commitment and this
suggests that more trainees should probably be drawn from younger rather than older age groups; this
would, in any cases, be desirable so that this program produces a cadre of trained and motivated middle-
management for the future.
For the most senior management in each company, it is unlikely that personnel could be absent for an
extended period or that they would be able quickly to acquire a new language skill. Training for this
group, therefore, should take the form of shorter courses and seminars covering general management at
which interpreters would be available.
Organization of Training
The desirable emphasis of on-the-job training, coupled with the significant number of staff to be included
from each GDC, strongly suggests that such training would most effectively be organized within a
"twinning" arrangement. A Russian GDC would be linked with a similar company in North America
or Western Europe on a continuing basis, providing benefits over a long period. In the initial two years,
some 4-6 individuals (depending on the size of the GDC) would spend six months with the host company,
the arrangement to be repeated four times. The advantage of this approach is that it would not overly
tax the host GDC and would provide an opportunity to reinforce new skills as each team returns (there
is a danger that the skills will be lost if periodic reinforcement isn't established).
The Russian and the host companies would each appoint a co-ordinating officer who would set up the
necessary arrangements, monitor the progress of the trainees and develop the program in the light of
experience. The program should be intensive, with readily identifiable deliverables for each team.
Towards the end of the initial two-year period, the further training needs of the Russian GDC would be
jointly reviewed and a continuing program developed.
A preliminary estimate of the cost of such a program suggests, that the direct cost of sending an
individual to a foreign utility for a six-month period could be US$25,000 with a similar sum incurred
by the host utility in providing the facilities. For a group of six individuals repeated four times over a
two-year, the total would be US$1 .2m per company. In addition, the arrangements for short-term visits
and seminars for training senior management would cost a further US$0.4m.
Conclusion
A twinning arrangement between a Russian GDC and a foreign utility would provide an effective means
of organizing urgently needed business, professional and technical training for middle and senior
management. The business and personal contacts made should also prove valuable to both Russian and
foreign utilities over the longer-term.



-78-
Annex 6-2
Page 4 of 24
OUTLINE OF TRAINING PROGRAM ELEMENTS
FOR RUSSIAN GAS DISTRIBUTION COMPANIES
1.    General business training for senior managers, covering the main principles of the topics covered
in the program, plus a top-down view of business management, Board responsibilities and the role of a
Chief Executive.
2.    Financial control, including medium term forecasting, budgetary control, regular financial
reporting to management, internal audit, external audit, working capital control - cash, debtors and stock.
3.    Accounting, including balance sheets and profit and loss accounts, funds statements, accounting
principles, accounts preparation by computer, including software packages, accounts interpretation,
according to internationally accepted standards.
4.    Investment appraisal, including capital and revenue projects, cost estimation, discounted cash flow
and payback calculations, project reporting procedures, and post project appraisal.
5.    Personnel policies, including terms of employment, recruitment, training, termination procedures,
appraisal, motivation and incentive options.
6.    Information technology, including capital and revenue projects, cost estimation, discounted cash
flow and payback calculations, project reporting procedures, and post project appraisal.
7.    Gas market development, including consumer relations, load building, close involvement with
decision makers for energy choice, technical advice on energy efficiency, gas burning appliance
development, cost reduction for gas installation, identifying and meeting gaps in the energy market.
8.    Engineering techniques such as network design, leakage detection, use of plastic pipe, etc.
9.    Environmental monitoring and assessment.
10.   Overall balancing of demand and supplying with a view to optimizing costs/revenues and hence
profit, development of flexible sales contracts, tariff design to achieve optimum results, evaluation of
options for local supply side investments.
11.   Regulatory relations (on the basis that a regulatory framework will be put in place in due course),
including the purpose, costs and benefits, dealing with the regulator and possible other authorities
involved in the process.
12.   Efficiency improvement, using techniques such as operations research, organization and methods,
productivity analysis.
13. An overview of all the elements, bringing together their essential features and inter-relationships.



-79-
Annex 6-2
Page 5 of 24
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RUSSIA ENERGY SAVINGS FUND - INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
The Russia Gas Distribution Rehabilitation and Energy Efficiency Project includes a component for
financing energy efficiency investments by local district heating and combined-heat-and-power (CHP)
utilities. It is proposed that the Russian Energy Savings Fund act as an overseer and administrator for
the Government of Russia, assisting in the identification and appraisal of sub-projects, advising companies
on implementation issues, and monitoring the financial viability and loan repayment aspects of the
subsidiary loans.
OBJECTIVES & SCOPE OF WORK
In order to successfully fulfil this proposed role, the RESF requests the assistance of consultants who will
provide technical support and training during the initial period of operation. Specifically, short-term
experts are required during the first year of the project implementation for one month per quarter (four
months/year) in each of the following skill areas:
-energy engineering
-project economics/financial analysis
-accounting/administration
The scope of work for these experts will be to assist and advise the counterpart RESF personnel whose
skill requirements and responsibilities are described in the attached statement of resource requirements.
The consultant would also be required to provide an additional technical specialist in energy engineering
for three weeks every quarter in year one, and for three weeks twice a year during years two and three.
The qualifications of this technical advisor would be defined by the RESF according to the specific, and
as yet unknown, sectoral and/or technology-specific needs of the project. RESF anticipates that different
specialists would be required for most or all of these advisory visits. It is also expected that the advisors
would serve only the staff of the RESF in year one; in subsequent years, they would advise both the
RESF and the technical staff of municipal companies, with RESF acting as coordinator for the training
missions.
Finally, the consultant would be required to design and deliver two five-day seminars once or twice a
year, focussed on special topics of relevance to the project, as defined by the RESF. These requirements
will only be defined after the Project Implementation Unit is staffed and has operated for at least 3
months.



-80-
Annex 6-2
Page 6 of 24
RESF Resource Requirements
Based on the proposed role of the RESF, and a review of its current staffing, capabilities and
organization, resource requirements are identified as follows:
Senior Management: Whatever form the RESF implementation group takes, it will need a senior
manager capable of providing leadership to the group by (i) setting out strategies and policies for the
group of technical specialists; (ii) providing operating plans and directions for the group and coordinating
and monitoring its activities; and (iii) serving as liaison with senior levels of both local and federal
government organizations and foreign (multilateral and bilateral) agencies.
Energy Engineering Expertise: An energy expert is required to satisfy the technical aspects of RESF'S
mandate. The energy technology expert would carry out the technical review and assessment of the sub-
projects, participate in the technical aspects of procurement, tendering and project management and
control; in conjunction with the engineering specialist, lead the evaluation of completed subprojects and
the project as a whole; and, assist in the identification and appraisal of additional energy efficiency
projects. Ideally, the individual would possess university level training in engineering and experience
with relevant energy efficiency technologies and projects in the industrial and buildings sectors. He
should be familiar with methods of energy auditing, although it is expected that much of this type of work
would be contracted out by the RESF. Communications skills are important as the engineer would need
to liaise with counterpart staff in the municipal utilities.
Economic and Financial Analysis Expertise: The RESF project economist/financial analyst would be
responsible for the economic and financial aspects of the review and assessment of subprojects; the
preparation of loan agreements with municipal utilities; assisting in the design and implementation of
project management and control systems; and participating in subproject and project evaluation activities.
The analyst would also be responsible for liaison with counterpart staff in Russian government agencies,
international organizations and the municipal utilities.
Accounting/Administration: The accountant/administrator would be charged with carrying out the
project accounting functions of the RESF group, as well as administrative tasks related mainly but not
entirely to project on-lending and implementation activities. The accountant should have skills in both
financial and management accounting.



-81-
Annex 6-2
Page 7 of 24
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENERGY PRICING STRATEGY STUDY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
INTRODUCTION
1.    The World Bank is providing assistance to the Russian Federation in its efforts to commercialize
the energy supply sector. As part of this process, the Ministry of Fuels and Energy has requested that
the Bank finance a study to assist them in developing a strategy for making the transition from controlled
to market-defined pricing of energy products.
OBJECTIVES
2.    The objectives of the study are three-fold: to assist the Government in defining realistic long-term
objectives in terms of introducing competitive price setting in the energy sub-sectors; to assist them in
identifying interim measures and initiatives required to ensure an orderly transition from the current to
the targeted pricing regime; and to outline a program and time-frame for achieving the shift to market-
based pricing.
BACKGROUND
3.    The Government has made rapid progress in corporatizing the Russian energy sector. Many of
the primary and secondary supply enterprises have already been converted to joint stock companies, and
plans are underway to continue this process. At the same time, concerted efforts have been made to
adjust and index energy prices, through a series of degrees, in order to bring them closer to world prices
and to reflect the competitive positions of alternative energy forms. Ultimately, it is the goal of the
Government to extract itself, insofar as possible, from the pricing process, and allow market forces to
define energy prices in the country.
4.     This process of shifting from controlled prices to pricing based on market forces raises a number
of concerns, both in the long term and in the short term, regarding the strategies which the government
should adopt to ensure that a system of fair and competitive pricing is achieved. In the longer term,
concerns center on the steps required to ensure a competitive framework for energy supply both within
and among energy sectors. This includes defining realistic objectives with regard to establishing
competition among suppliers, both in terms of market entry and access to customers, identifying strategies
to facilitate the development of competitive markets both for individual fuels and among alternative forms
of energy, and defining a regulatory process to be implemented in those sectors where competition may
be difficult or impossible to achieve in an efficient manner.
5.    In the near term, concerns center around the strategies to be adopted during the period of
transition from controlled to market prices. These include identifying mechanisms to adjust for
distortions in the cost bases of suppliers which could inhibit fair competition, developing a fair and
equitable basis for reflecting differences in the costs of supply to different markets, making provision to
protect the basic needs of vulnerable groups, ensuring that "lifeline" supplies can be obtained at
affordable cost, and defining a schedule and milestones for the transition from regulated to competitive
pricing.



-82-
Annex 6-2
Page 8 of 24
SCOPE OF WORK
6.    The proposed Energy Pricing Strategy Study is intended to provide guidance to government in
defining appropriate strategies and policies relating to the establishment of a competitive framework for
energy pricing. The study will address both long term issues related to sector and sub-sector objectives,
and transitional strategies to be adopted in moving from current to targeted pricing mechanisms.
7.    In meeting these objectives, it is anticipated that the consultant would carry out the following
tasks:
Phas I
i.    Review the structure of the commercial energy supply industry in Russia, including petroleum
products, coal, natural gas, LPG, district heat and electricity, and the degree of competition
currently prevailing among alternative sources of supply. Where necessary, both wholesale and
retail supply systems should be considered. In addition, where transformation is involved
(thermal electric generation, district heating, petroleum refining), issues relating to competition
among alternative primary energy sources should be reviewed.
ii.    Review and identify any barriers to long-term competition within and among sectors, including
supply constraints, restricted access to markets, and financial and institutional barriers to entry.
iii.    Define a set of realistic long-term objectives for each energy sub-sector in terms of the degree
to which market mechanisms should be used to define energy prices, and identify the steps which
need to be taken to achieve this level of competition.
Pha. e II
iv.    Where barriers are deemed prohibitive, review alternative mechanisms for regulatory price
control, and provide detailed recommendations on the preferred regulatory process. These
recommendations should include the body or bodies responsible for regulation, the basis on which
regulated prices should be set (including appropriate parameters with regard to rate base, rate of
return, etc), and the suggested means of ensuring efficient performance in the absence of open
competition (proficiency audits, price caps, etc).
V.     Review and outline current sources of distortion in the cost structures of energy supply
comnpanies, which could lead to inefficient short term pricing decisions. Many of the newly
privatized enterprises will, for example, have acquired assets at well below net replacement value.
Hence, pricing based on historic cost could lead to fuel choices which are, in the long term, less
than desirable. Conversely, pricing at marginal cost, while sending more correct pricing signals
to markets, would create returns to shareholders which would likely be incompatible with the
level of investment.
vi.    Review and evaluate mechanisms that could be used to adjust for short-term cost distortions (for
example, production taxes, sales taxes, corporatization loans, dividends on government equity).
Recommend preferred alternatives and provide a schedule for both implementing and for phasing
out adjustinent mechanisms as distortions are eliminated. Evaluation of alternatives should take
into account the longer-term needs of the private corporations to raise funds for expansion and
to provide a reasonable return on invested capital.



-83-
Annex 62
Page 9 of 24
vii.   Review and make recommendations on the need for reduced rates on "lifeline" energy supplies.
The review should address the level of basic energy needs, as well as the degree of subsidy
required to ensure affordable lifeline supply. The study should also address and make specific
recommendations on the preferred method for financing lifeline subsidies (transfer of general tax
revenues, special taxes, cross-subsidization, etc.).
viii.  In subsectors where regulated prices are proposed as the preferred pricing mechanism, review
and make recommendations on the manner in which the Government should deal with the
disaggregation of prices by region. Specific recommendations on spatial disaggregation of gas
prices should be addressed.
ix.    Provide a program for transition from the current regulated pricing mechanisms to the proposed
long-term market based pricing structure. The program should identify steps and initiatives to
be undertaken by the government in order to achieve long-term pricing objectives, and should
indicate milestones at which these government actions should occur.
x.    Provide a schedule for transition, taking into account the past and proposed rate of change in the
energy industry, and the time that might be required in order to ensure an orderly progress
towards competitive pricing.
DELIVERABLES
8.    An interim report is required at the end of Phase I (task iii), summarizing the findings with regard
to the current structure of the energy supply industry, the barriers to competition within the industry, and
the recommended long-term objectives which should be pursued in terms of competitive energy pricing.
Provided that these objectives have been established in a satisfactory manner, the consultant will carry
out the remaining study tasks, and provide a draft final report covering findings and recommended
strategies and schedules for transition.
9.    Subsequent to review, the consultant will make agreed amendments and provide a final report,
integrating both phases of the study.



-84-
Annex 6-2
Page 10 of 24
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
THIRD PARTY ACCESS STUDY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Ministry of Fuels and Energy of the Russian Federation has requested financing from the
World Bank to establish a Third Party Access Regulation (TPAR) for gas transit in Russia. The
Government's objective in establishing the TPAR is to achieve increased economic efficiency in the
delivery of energy. Institutions and incentives should be established to ensure that access to gas delivery
and pricing mechanisms would protect the interests of the consumer and establish incentives for investors
in the gas sector to achieve reasonable returns on their investments as a result of efficient operation.
Furthermore, the Government is interested in minimizing the administrative burden of regulation by
maximizing price clearing mechanisms through competition.
BACKGROUND
2.    Russia's gas markets continue to evolve rapidly.  Western and Central European markets
stagnated during the period from 1990 to 1992, as a result of slow economic growth in the west and
restructuring in central Europe. These markets have shown some rebound during 1993 and have
accelerated in early 1994. However, increases in these gas markets have been offset by the decline in
Russia's gas delivery to the Republics of the Former Soviet Union. Gas prices to these markets have
been increased considerably, resulting in a market contraction and a build-up of accounts receivable. In
many of these markets the accounts receivable issue are substantial, and an as yet unresolved problem.
3.    As both domestic and export markets continue to adjust, energy supply and interfuel substitution
is expected to change to reflect the evolving market. Given Russia's enormous gas reserves, its relatively
low cost of supply and its relatively low impact on the environment, gas is expected to continue to
dominate as the primary fuel of choice for Russia. However, as energy markets in Russia contract with
decreasing economic activity, industrial restructuring and energy conservation investments, gas supply
is expected to become market constrained. As a result, gas is expected to saturate the primary energy
supply market in Russia over the medium term.
4.    In markets where gas becomes demand constrained, gas pricing is expected to reflect gas-on-gas
competition (assuming barriers to market access are eliminated and multiple suppliers of gas supply can
compete for the available markets). In Russia, Gazprom currently enjoys an exclusive monopoly on non-
associated gas production and gas transmission. This study is designed to assist the Government in
implementing policies that would make the evolving gas markets more efficient by increasing competition
as a market clearing mechanism, while preserving the rights and obligations of the consumers and
suppliers.
SCOPE OF WORK
5.    The consultant' would draft a Third Party Access Regulation to enable the Government to
establish a mechanism to enable increased economic efficiency of energy delivery. The consultant would,
I/The term 'consultant" is meant to reflect a group of experts whose skill rnix would enable them to provide a
wide ranging set of advice to the Government regarding Third Party Access Regulation.



-85-
Annex 6-2
Page 11 of 24
based on his understanding of the Russian energy system and knowledge of Third party Access practices
implemented elsewhere, assist the Ministry of Fuels and Energy in drafting this regulation. The tasks
to be undertaken by the consultant would include, but not be limited to the following:
6.    Task 1: The consultant would supplement his understanding of the energy delivery system in
Russia through interviews with the officials from the Ministry of Fuels and Energy, Gazprom, Oil
Producing Associations (producing associated gas), Rossgazifikazia, newly formed gas distribution
companies and major gas consumers. Through this exercise, the consultant would assess the impediments
to the development of gas-on-gas competition in Russia and suggest ways in which these barriers might
be removed to bring about a more competitive gas industry.
7.    Task 2: The consultant would outline the main problems associated with establishing Third Part
Access in Russia. The consultant would prepare a written report which, drawing on experience in other
countries, sets out the main options that the Government could use to address these issues and how they
could be implemented as laws, regulations and/or decrees affecting the transport of gas. Unbundling of
other services (such as storage) would also be reviewed and specific recommendations made.
8.    Task 3: After a review of the options with the Government and the Bank, the consultant would
collaborate with officials in the Ministry of Fuels and Energy in drafting specific decrees, laws and/or
regulations on Third Party Access and related matters.



-86-
Annex 6-2
Page 12 of 24
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION COMPANY PRIVATIZATION STUDY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Ministry of Fuels and Energy of the Russian Federation has requested financing from the
World Bank to assist Rossgazifikazia in undertaking the next steps in privatization of the Gas Distribution
Companies (GDCs) in Russia.
OBJECTIVES
2.    The purpose of this study is to assist the Government in determining how to complete the
privatization process for the GDCs in Russia. The primary goals of the Government are the efficient
operation of these enterprises upon completion of this process and preservation of domestic interests in
the distribution of shares. In addition, the Government is interested in the contribution that can be made
to addressing the fiscal deficit through sales of shares.
BACKGROUND
3.    The first phase of the corporatization/privatization process for GDCs has been completed with
the formation of over 300 joint stock companies responsible for gas distribution in Russia. Under this
process, the employees of each GDC were given the option of owning 40 percent or 51 percent of the
shares, with the remainder owned by the Federal Government and local authorities. Most of the GDCs
established are profitable, with the exception being those with a relatively high proportion of residential
consumers. The financial situation of these companies will be addressed by further gas price increases
and through the establishment of a Gas Stabilization and Reconstruction Fund. This Fund will be
financed from a 10 percent charge on the differential between GDC purchasing and selling prices.
4.    The Government has requested the World Bank to finance a gas distribution reconstruction project
which is currently under preparation. This project will support the Government's initiatives in the gas
subsector and assist in the financing of gas distribution equipment identified as the result of a feasibility
study. This project will help GDCs become commercially oriented enterprises.
SCOPE OF WORK
5.    The consultant will review the operation of Volgograd Gorgas currently having JSC status as
candidates for privatization. The GDC's assets, staffing, managerial capabilities, operating policies and
financial health will be reviewed to determine a privatization plan. The consultant will recommend
specific actions that should take place prior to privatization.
6.    Task 1: Review the assets, operational and commercial policies and practices, management
capability, staff, and financial status of Volgograd Gorgas utilities. Identify key areas that are in need
of improvement and make specific recommendations regarding actions that should take place prior to
privatization.
7.    Task 2: Review optional sources for equity participation, including: (i) domestic capital markets;
(ii) existing shareholders; (iii) foreign equity participation, and describe the costs and benefits of each.



-87-
Annex 6-2
Page 13 of 24
8.    Task 3: Prepare alternative approaches to privatization for review by the shareholders. Present
the options to the shareholders, clearly identifying the next steps that need to be taken.
9.    Task 4: Assist the Government in preparing for the sale of their shares in the GDCs, taking into
account the Government's interest in receiving a fair value for their holdings.
REPORTING REQUIREMENT
10.   Upon the completion of each task, a report should be furnished to the Ministry of Fuels and
Energy, Rossgazifikazia, GKI, the GDCs and the Word Bank. Review meetings will take place in Russia
after the Task 2 and 3 reports are issued.



-88-
Annex 6-2
Page 14 of 24
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION - PROJECT PREPARATION
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
I .    The Government of the Russian Federation (GOR) has requested the World Bank to finance a Gas
Distribution Rehabilitation Project (GDRP). In support of this project, the GOR has requested financing
of a study to undertake system diagnostics and project preparation for the proposed project. This study
will identify the highest priority investments that would enable Gas Distribution Companies (GDCs) to
meet the following objectives: (i) reduction of system losses, improved reliability and increased safety
of system operation; (ii) increased efficiency of customer energy use; (iii) transfer of technology and
design concepts; and (iv) commercialization of the gas distribution business. The project should be
prepared within the context of, and be consistent with, broader strategies for short and long term
development of the gas distribution industry.
Background
2.    Gas consumption, in Russia, amounted to about 420 Billion Cubic Meters (BCM) in 1991, of
which about 270 BCM (64 percent) is distributed by the distribution organizations that formerly
comprised RossGaz2 and are now in the process of being formed as Joint Stock Companies (JSC's).
Starting with intensive measures in the mid 1950s, the gas distribution industry has evolved to a position
where, by 1992, 218,000 km. of distribution pipelines supply 17.4 million households, 56,000
commercial consumers and 12,400 industries in 71 major distribution areas, with overall coordination by
RossGaz.
3.    Much of the distribution system suffers from corrosion-induced pipeline ruptures. Each year 300-
500 ruptures are caused by this problem. Insufficient cathodic protection and inadequate maintenance
due to insufficient supply of materials have been the primary sources of the problem. As a result,
Rossgaz estimates that 10,000 km of distribution pipelines are in need of replacement, of which 3,000
km is in urgent need of replacement or tubing with polyethylene (PE) pipes. A limited (5 km)
replacement program using PE pipes has been initiated on a pilot basis, which GDCs wish to accelerate.
4.    The role and structure of natural gas supply in meeting energy demands is likely to evolve
significantly in several areas over the next decade, including: (i) increased use of gas in power generation;
(ii) changes in the role of gas in household energy use and district heating; (iii) improvements in end-use
energy efficiency due to active energy efficiency efforts coupled with price rationalization and increased
use of metering; (iv) changing needs in the industrial and commercial sectors due to structural changes
in the economy; and (v) the impact of the use of new technologies. During 1993 the structure of the gas
distribution entities has changed considerably, with Rosstrojgazifikazia being split up into multiple
independent joint stock companies organized on the basis of oblast (or krai or republic) levels or city
levels.
5.    Gas use in households is largely limited to cooking, as hot water and space heating is mainly
supplied form a centralized district heating system. The current design of the district heating system is
2/The remainder is supplied by Gazprom (25 percent), MosGaz and LenGaz (5 percent each) in Moscow and
St. Petersburg, respectively.



-89-
Annex 6-2
Page 15 of 24
considered to be sub-optimal for many reasons, including high losses, inadequate controls, poor service,
and (implicitly) high costs of operation. Where district heating is economically efficient, the economic
prudence of gas service exclusively for cooking (as opposed to electricity-based stoves) is questionable.
Therefore, the relative role of district heating, electricity and gas use in households and commercial
buildings needs to be assessed before major investments in rehabilitation take place.
6.     The current system of energy delivery to households suffers from poor service. Space heating
is considered to be unreliable and inadequate.  Heating controls are virtually non-existent with
temperature largely controlled by opening windows. Stoves are reportedly also used to supplement the
inadequacy of heat delivery. Hot water supply is curtailed for about two weeks each summer while the
district heating system is taken out of service for repair. The scope for economically prudent increases
in energy use should be identified and a plan to address this issue should be developed.
7.     Longer term development of the gas distribution system will possibly include upgrading of the
existing low pressure steel network to a medium pressure PE based network to allow increased gas
demands to be met. A program of household metering will also be required. These needs and their
impacts must be assessed within the context of the overall demand for gas.
8.     The gas distribution industry is in the process of being privatized and adopting commercial
orientation. The first stage will occur during the first quarter of 1993 with full privatization starting in
1996. The ultimate structure of the industry is not yet finalized but the local distribution companies have
requested technical assistance to further develop commercial functions.
9.     Gas distribution companies will likely face cash flow limitations over the next 5 years and will
have limited access to foreign exchange. Rehabilitation solutions should therefore consider optimal use
of local goods and services.
10.    The Government has selected Volgograd Gorgas for their distribution rehabilitation efforts.
Study Objectives
11.   The consultant should prepare a work plan for comprehensive studies of a selected number of
cities. To enable the studies to be undertaken quickly, and because of the similarities in system design
among all cities, the consultant is encouraged to propose a structure to his work program that would
minimize duplication of effort. The study is designed to consist of three main elements: (i) demand
analysis; (ii) project preparation; and, (iii) institutional reform. The primary purpose of the study is to
quickly identify high rate of return, short gestation projects for each city that would be a component of
the long term gas distribution system development. In order that this objective is achieved, it is expected
that a team of foreign experts will work closely with a team of Russian counterparts to identify the
highest priority investments (both in terms of increased effectiveness of supply and increased end-use
efficiency). The study has four principle objectives - preparation of a gas distribution rehabilitation
project, increases in the efficiency of energy use, technology transfer and institutional reform - outlined
below.
12.   Prepare Distribution Network Reconstruction Project: Provision of reliable, low-cost gas to
Russian consumers requires investment in network reconstruction to reduce losses and improve safety.
The current gas distribution system is suspected of having relatively high losses due to pipe corrosion,
but the level of losses is unknown largely due to the lack of metering of gas consumption in households.
A technical audit of the distribution system to improve the estimate of current losses and the potential for



-90-
Annex 6-2
Page 16 of 24
savings from loss reduction and the development of a short term loss reduction program/strategy
consistent with the overall network rehabilitation program will be undertaken. The study will identify
a program of high priority distribution investments required over the next five years, along with
evaluation and preparation of specific projects in each city. This study and the resulting project will
provide critical inputs into the development of strategies for reconstruction of the gas distribution industry
over the next 5 years. The need for essential short-term investments should be balanced with the long-
term development of the network, based on consideration of strategic factors, some of which are outlined
below.
13.   Efficient Use of Energy: In comparison with norms in other countries, Russia's unit energy
consumption is unusually high. Drawing on earlier district heating and other related studies, the
consultant should review the scope for energy efficiency enhancements in a selected number of industries,
commercial enterprises and households to identify an investment strategy to improve the efficiency of gas
use. The objectives of the energy efficiency program would be to: free up gas for exports; reduce the
impact of gas price reform on downstream enterprises (and thus, the ability to pay); and reduce the
impact of energy use on the environment. For the housing stock, the consultant will prepare a design
competition to focus on three typical existing apartment complexes. The competition (which will be
prepared for financing under the proposed project) will focus on energy efficiency potential, and will also
address improvements in the quality of the housing stock. The consultant will identify a program of
technically and economically viable energy efficiency improvement measures and make specific
recommendations as to how to foster their implementation.
14.   Transfer of Technologv: The study will also introduce technologies used by the gas industry
outside of Russia, including, but not limited to: (i) distribution network design standards; (ii) the use of
different materials such as PE pipe; (iii) data acquisition and control technologies; and (iv) end-use
technologies.
15.   Institutional Reforn: The local distribution units are currently undergoing a major transformation
in corporate structure as a result of a decree signed by the President on December 8, 1992. RossGaz and
the GDCs have become joint-stock companies. This is the first step in a process of commercialization
that may eventually lead to full privatization. The consultant will review the institutional reforms
necessary to support this transfer of responsibilities and make specific recomnmendations on changes in
systems and procedures within each entity.
Scope of Work
16.   Based on the above background and objectives, the consultant is required to undertake this study
in three phases: (i) within the first three months, the consultant will prepare a diagnosis of the existing
situation to determine general changes in the role of gas in meeting energy needs and prepare a list of
short gestation, high return investments that will meet the immediate needs; (ii)one month after review
of the phase-one results by the GDCs and the World Bank, the consultant will prepare a project which
may be financed by the World Bank and/or other donors; and (iii) preparation of tender documents. The
major areas of investigation are outlined below.
Demand Analysis
17.   Gas Demand Forecast: Development of strategies for short and long term network reconstruction
and development will need to consider the implications of alternate levels of gas demand. Demand
scenarios should be developed with due consideration to the dynamics of the economy, changes in local



-91-
Annex 6-2
Page 17 of 24
economic structure including potential new investments, expected changes in gas consumption patterns
due to income and price changes, energy use, and a possible revised role for gas use in households. The
consultant should involve the local distribution company staff in the process of producing forecasts
including development of a simple end-use forecast model.
18.   Efficient Use of Energy: The potential for increases in energy efficiency should be assessed for
a diverse group of selected industries (about 8 per city) and commercial enterprises to determine cost-
effective investments and changes in operating practices that would reduce energy consumption. The
consultant should evaluate the achievable level of energy savings assuming gas price to industry is
adjusted to US$40/MCM equivalent. Energy audits for a selected number of enterprises in each city
should be undertaken. To the extent possible, efforts should focus on industries that are expected to
become or remain financially viable. The consultant should also examine alternate and innovative financial
and institutional means for funding such investments.
19.   Drawing on earlier district heating system and other related studies, the consultant will review
the overall provision of heating services to non-industrial customers and evaluate the costs and benefits
of changes which would improve the quality of services supplied. As a parallel exercise, the consultant
will prepare a design competition, to be included under the proposed project, which focusses on
apartment complex retrofit to improve building quality and reduce energy consumption. Designs for three
typical apartment complexes should be included as part of the competition.
20.   The Role of Gas: The consultant will evaluate the relative economic costs of heat and hot water
services from existing district heating versus residential gas boilers or electric boilers and stoves. This
will include an assessment of the long-term least-cost means of providing space heating, hot water and
cooking services to new and existing residential and commercial developments and evaluation of the
economically prudent geographic limit of existing district heating.
Project Preparation
21.    Asset Review: The state of distribution assets in place must first be evaluated to determine
priority investments, keeping in mind safety, loss reduction and environmental impacts. A maintenance
program for each city should be developed including corrosion protection, safety improvements, defect
monitoring, data acquisition and system control. The consultant should work closely with city distribution
staff in designing this program. This work would be complemented by visits of Russian staff to gas
distribution companies outside Russia.
22.   Specifically, the consultant should assess the present and forecast levels of system losses through
leakage in order that a priority investment program can be identified. The consultant will suggest a
program for undertaking this assessment. This analysis will be key in determining equipment to be
procured under the project. Cathodic protection should also be reviewed and recommendations, from the
system design perspective, should address this issue.
23.   Local Material Supply Capability: The consultant will provide an assessment of local supply
capability for potential goods and services required for the distribution network reconstruction project and
inform potential suppliers of the project and the requirements to participate in ICB bidding.
24.   Network Reconstruction and Development Strategies: Based on review of the existing network
configuration, the status of system losses and reliability and the future demand for gas, the consultant will
develop short and long term reconstruction and development strategies. An inventory of high priority



-92-
Annex 6-2
Page 18 of 24
investments for the next 5 years should be developed along with illustrative longer term investment
requirements. These recommendations should incorporate evaluation of existing design concepts and
standards relative to international practice and the scope for technology transfer. The consultant should
examine the costs and benefits of alternate design configurations including, but not limited to:
(i) maintain the use of the existing low pressure steel pipe system;
(ii) maintain the existing low pressure system but base expansion on medium pressure pipeline;
(iii) increase network capacity by phasing out the low pressure system, gradually replacing it with a
medium pressure network;
(iv) gradually substitute gas use in households, where it is only used for cooking, with electric stoves and
the cost effectiveness of alternate residential meter arrangements.
25.   Economic Analysis: The economic analysis will evaluate the least-cost development strategy of
energy supply, including an approximate estimate of the relative role of gas, electricity, and district
heating. The least-cost analysis will include both demand side and supply side investments. A ranking
of proposed investments for each of the cities will be established as an input to determining the highest
priority investments to be financed under the project proposed for World Bank financing. A specific
economic analysis of the highest priority investments for each city will be included to enable the
investments to be ranked.
26.   Project Preparation: Based on the results of a review of the proposed investments for each city,
the local distribution companies, the World Bank and the consultant will prepare the project, including
a detailed cost estimate (local and foreign costs in mid-1993 prices, local and foreign inflation, physical
contingencies, taxes and duties and interest during construction), contract packaging, implementation
schedule and proposed project management. After the broad scope of the project has been sanctioned
by the Executing Agencies and the World Bank, the consultant will assist the Executing Agencies to
prepare tender documents that meet World Bank guidelines.
27.   Environmental Analysis: An Environmental Assessment (EA) will be prepared for the proposed
project to ensure that the project meets the Environmental Guidelines of the Russian Federation, the
World Bank and those of local authorities. Attachment I provides a brief (non-exhaustive) guide to the
issues that should be addressed in the EA. The EA must be completed within four months of project
inception.
Institutional Reform
28.   Financial Analysis:  Based on pro-forma projections of the distribution company's Income
Statement, Balance Sheet and Sources and Application of Funds Statements for the years 1993 to 2003,
a financing plan should be developed by the consultants in close collaboration with the proposed
Executing Agency which would meet future funding requirements, including: the proposed high priority
investments, the longer term development program, on-going O&M expenditures and adequate levels of
working capital. The financial projections should be based on clearly identified targets for rate of return
on current valued assets, self-financing, liquidity, and capital structure that would satisfy potential
(private) investors and creditors. An estimate should be made of the margins and resulting natural gas
and LPG prices required to ensure financial viability. Local company staff should participate in the
analysis including development of a spreadsheet financial model.



-93-
Annex 6-2
Page 19 of 24
29.   As support for the process of corporatization and eventual privatization of the distribution
companies, the consultant will review the existing legal and regulatory framework which currently
governs the operations of the distribution companies and assess whether any administrative changes are
necessary to facilitate the transformation into joint-stock companies. The consultant will also review the
internal changes within the distribution companies that may be required as part of this change in status
including: the development of adequate systems of accountability to the shareholder, financial reporting,
organization structure, staffing and labor relations, billing procedures and systems, contracting services,
marketing and management information systems and make recommendations for development of these
practices, systems and staff. The consultant should identify current internal functions which would be
cost-effective candidates for eventual separation from the organization. The review should also contain
recommendations on what further legal or institutional changes may be required to prepare the joint-stock
company for transfer into private ownership. In addition, a diagnostic study of short term management
information requirements should be carried out. Cash management procedures (including receivable,
payable and inventory systems and strategies) should be examined in particular detail. The consultant
will identify critical areas where the distribution company would benefit from short term advisory services
and technical assistance and prepare terms of reference in conjunction with distribution company
management.
30.   The distribution companies will be required to maintain separate and auditable accounts for the
rehabilitation project with the goal of ensuring loan proceeds are utilized efficiently and for the intended
purposes. The contracted firm will assist the distribution company in enhancement of current project
accounting procedures and systems to ensure full accountability of project funds and enable timely
preparation of project progress and completion reports. The distribution companies will also be required
to prepare year-end financial statements according to both Russian standards and Generally Acceptable
Accounting Principles (GAAP). To support this the consultant will provide seminars on financial
accounting principles and practice and the adjusting entries required to transform Russian accounts to
basic international GAAP. Initial seminars should be directed at middle to senior management of the
distribution company with later seminars directed at specific accounting and economics functions in the
company.
31.   In preparation for financial audits the consultant (in conjunction with the asset review task
described in para 21) should assist the distribution companies to computerize their fixed asset register,
with due regard for materiality. All assets required for distribution operations, regardless of ownership,
should be included. This task should be carried out in consultation with the distribution companies
appointed auditors.
32.   Technology Transfer: Each city in the study will be twinned with a foreign distribution company.
Local staff, including one person from each of the following departments; (i) procurement; (ii)
accounting; (iii) maintenance; (iv) marketing and energy use; and (v) engineering, controls and safety,
will visit with counterpart staff for a period of approximately 6 weeks to learn about international
operating practices. They will be responsible for preparing logs and reports which will be presented upon
their return to Russia. There will likely be 2 or 3 study groups. The consultant will be responsible for
organizing the visits and should provide one person to coordinate the activities at each city. In addition,
a general manager from each Russian company will participate, who, in addition to learning about
international operating practices, should be exposed to the regulatory aspects of the local gas distributor,
the role of federal government agencies and the local and national Gas Associations.



-94-
Annex 6-2
Page 20 of 24
Scheduling and Reporting
33.   The consultant will report, in writing, to the GDCs and The World Bank: (i) upon the completion
of the identification of the priority projects; (ii) upon the completion of project preparation; and (iii) after
the completion of the tender documents. The consultant will work closely with the GDCs, maximizing
their participation in the diagnosis and project preparation in order to combine the best of foreign and
Russian technology.
34.   The consultant will submit eleven (11) copies of the first report to Rossgaz and the GDCs: (10)
in Russian and (1) in English; and ten (10) copies of the English version of the report to both and the
World Bank, within three months of the study inception. Based on the recommendations of this report
and subsequent discussions with the GDCs, RossGaz and the World Bank, the consultant will finalize
project preparation (including the EA) for a proposed World Bank project within one month of receiving
final directions from the GDCs and RossGaz in project definition.
35.   Upon the completion of project preparation, a draft final report will be submitted as described
above for the Phase I report. This report will form the basis of the World Bank appraisal of the proposed
project. Based on subsequent discussions with the GDCs and the World Bank, the consultant will assist
the GDCs staff to prepare tender documents in a manner which will satisfy World Bank guidelines.
Assistance to be Provided by the GDCs
36.   The GDCs will provide the following support services and facilities to the consultant without cost:
i)    assistance in obtaining visas, customs clearance, and any other administrative permits required
on behalf of the consultant in performing this assignment;
ii)    all relevant data, maps, surveys, studies, development plans, gas supply and similar information;
iii)   liaison with the Government of the Russian Federation, local government bodies, local
distribution companies and consumers;
iv)    estimates of the costs, availability and quantity of locally supplied materials, equipment, labor
and construction and installation services; and
(v)    a counterpart team for each group of cities to assist in the diagnostic and project preparation
components of the study.
Environmnental Aspects of the Proposed
Gas Distribution Rehabilitation Project
The Government of the Russian Federation requires that an Environmental Assessment (EA) be
undertaken for any significant gas distribution rehabilitation project as a component of an overall project
study. Furthermore, any gas project including a foreign exchange component in excess of 100 million
Roubles requires an EA satisfactory to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the local jurisdiction and be
approved by the State Environmental Commission in the Ministry of Ecology prior to initiating the
project.



-95-
Annex 6-2
Page 21 of 24
Most of the environmental legislation has only recently been put in place and, hence, the
experience in preparing EAs for gas distribution projects is limited. To assist in coordinating the
requirements and review by the various jurisdictions, the Ministry of Ecology has established an Inter-
Ministerial Coordinating Committee and a Center for International Projects designed to expedite projects
that have foreign investments. The Center is prepared to review the EA at the scoping and early draft
stage to identify any major deficiencies.
In order to help familiarize them with World Bank and Federal EA procedures,
Rosstrojgazifikazia has expressed their preference to employ consultants to assist them in preparing the
EA which will address the environmental standards of the Russian Federation and the World Bank. It
is understood that the Ecological Center of International Fuel and Energy enjoys the confidence of both
the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and the Ministry of Ecology.
The EA will describe the existing environment in the vicinity of the project and establish expected
environmental impacts associated with the undertaking. The environmental advantages and disadvantages
will be identified and alternatives in project design which may mitigate environmental problems will be
presented.
The EA will propose the details of the management of the identified impacts to minimize or
eliminate them and will set out mitigative and restorative measures that the owner will implement during
and after construction. The EA will set out a plan to monitor and report on the implementation of these
measures until the restoration has been successfully implemented.
The EA will address, as a minimum, the conservation of rare and endangered species, critical
habits, cultural properties, wetlands and significant environmentally sensitive areas. As well, the EA will
deal with the Occupational Health and Safety of the construction workforce in accordance with Russian
legislative and regulatory requirements. The handling and disposal of any hazardous materials associated
with the undertaking and the provisions to control and clean up any spills of hazardous materials will be
formulated in the EA.



-96-
Annex 6-2
Page 22 of 24
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE - MOFE
The Development of a Gas Distribution Network Reconstruction Program till 2010
The Goals: The goals of this Study are to provide the Government with the services in the
selection of the facilities for the rehabilitation and improvement, in the clarification of its proper sequence
and financial sources.
The Current Status: There is an urgent need in the gas distribution networks rehabilitation.
Meanwhile the regional distribution institutions financial resources are limited. In these circumstances
it is important to define both the distribution networks that are in greatest need of attention and those
distribution companies which are able to implement the required reconstruction in most efficient way in
the current circumstances.
The Study Scope:  The Consultant will provide the analysis of the status of the majority of
distribution stock companies as being the potential participants of the Program. The technical conditions
of the distribution networks, the financial status of the companies, their management, industrial policy
will be evaluated from the point of view of the selection of the most efficient participants. The consultant
will propose the recommendation on the preparative measures till the reconstruction starts.
Task 1.  The analysis of the gas distribution networks technical conditions as well as of the
organizational, economical and financial conditions for the gas distribution systems reconstruction.
Task 2. The choice of the key aspects for the improvement and the preparation of the detailed
recommendations regarding the measures which should be realized till the distribution system
reconstructions.
Task 3. The preparation of the Russian gas distribution networks reconstruction draft program till the
year 2010 including the relevant assessment. This draft will be discussed with Rossgazifikazia, Ministry
of Fuel and Energy, regional authorities.
Task 4. The Consultant will finalize the draft program after observation by the Government and the
regional authorities have been taken into account.
The Study will address the measures that need to be taken by the Government in support of the
reconstruction Program. One of the major points to be addressed is to define the temporal and financial
scopes for the technical assistance of the international institutions in sector development, the means to
determine when and what should be on the distribution networks reconstruction, the potential for foreign
investments participation and the role of the companies own funds.
Tlhe Program has to cover the whole spectrum of the relevant problems including the stimulation
of the Russian production of the metering equipment, polyethylene pipes and other equipment.



-97-
Annex 6-2
Page 23 of 24
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE - MOFE
Development of the Legislation Specification to the Gas Supply
The Goals: The Study goals are to provide the government with the services in the development
of new legislation related to the gas sector and the provision of the regulation for the foreign investments
and financial support to it. The development of the legislative basis for the gas sector is a part of the
Governmental program of the economical reconstruction.
The Current Status: Regulation in the gas sector in Russia is evolving. The law "On the natural
resources" is adopted and the law "On the oil and gas" is under consideration. A decree on the regulation
of the gas industry was passed in December 1994. Meanwhile a number of existing Russian laws and
regulations need to be revised or called off as far as they create the obstacles to the gas sector effective
activity. As a result of the study the draft law "On the gas supply" as well as the proposals on the
correction of existing laws and regulations have to be developed.  The Study should assist the
Government in the policy implementation which will help to increase the efficiency in the growing gas
markets and to guarantee the rights and obligations for the gas producers and gas consumers.
The Study ScoDe: As a Study result the new legislative basis for the improved gas sector
efficiency in the developing market relations environment will be created. As expected, the Consultant
in order to achieve this goal, will implement the main tasks:
l.    The analysis of the current Russian legislative and regulative frame which forms the basis for the
business activities in the gas sector. The evaluation of the opportunities for the adaptation in the Russian
conditions the main legislative and regulative principles acting in the gas industry of the most
industrialized countries - as USA, Canada, UK, Germany, France, Norway, Netherlands, etc.
2.    The formation of the list of those new legislative acts which are required for the efficient gas
sector activity in the market conditions as well as of those legislative and regulative acts which should
be reviewed and corrected.  The discussions on the necessity and the directions of the desired
improvements in the legislation and regulations with the officials of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy,
Gazprom, Rossgazifikazia, gas producing and gas transporting enterprises.
3.    The development of the draft law "On gas supply" and on the proposals on the improvements in
the current legislation, with the contributions from the worldwide practice in this area. Among the main
subjects to be considered within this draft are: the licenses for the activities in the gas supply, the
supervision and controls on these activities, the operational procedures in the gas supply management,
the main requirements to the activities in the gas supply, the design and construction of the relevant
facilities, the state regulation in this area, the relationships between the gas suppliers, gas distributors and
gas producers, the involvement of the foreign investments, the responsibilities for the breach of this law
clauses, etc.
4.    The discussions on the draft law "On the gas supply" and on the proposals on the improvement
in the current legislation with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, Gazprom, Rossgazifikazia and their
presentation before the Russian Government and Parliament.



-98-
Annex 6-2
Page 24 of 24
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE - MOFE
Coordination Function on Behalf of the Ministry as Between and Within Each Study
The Goals: To provide the Govermnent with the services in the management of the Study work
on each project in this group, for the analysis and acceptance of their results, as well as the provision of
the Russian side monitoring of the Study implementation.
The Scope of Services: This assistance is required in order to coordinate the study programs on
each individual project and to clarify the sequence of their implementation.
In practice all the technical assistance projects which support the main gas distribution
rehabilitation credit are interlinked. That is why it is necessary to correspond periodically the results on
each of them in order that their results and recommendations do not contradict each other. The
consultants have to clarify the needs of sectoral development and assist in the preparation of these
supplementary projects which would provide the opportunities for further realization of studies already
implemented. In some cases, it will be necessary to manage the joint review of the results of a number
of the interlinked projects. The preparation of such meetings, the formalization of its conclusions and
the due information of the relevant institutions and projects executors should be done by both Western
and Russian consultants. It would be required as well to organize the review of the interim and ultimate
studies results with the Fuel and Energy Ministry, other Governmnental institutions, Rossgazifikazia,
Gazprom, Regional authorities.



-99-
Anne,x 6-3
Page I of 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Table I
Distribution System Rehabildation
Summary Cost Breakdown by Component
(S million US Equivalent)
Project Component                              Volgograd
Unit        Number         Cost
1. METERING
1.1 Industrial Meters                     units              521          13.4
1.2 Commercial Meters                     units              650           1.0
1.3 Private Homes Metering                units           34,000           4.0
1.4 Apartment-blocks Metering             units           12,955           8.7
1.5 Meter Test Equipment                  units                1           0.3
Sub-total (incl. contingencies)                                            27.5
2. ASSET PRESERVATION
2.1 Pipeline Replacement                   km                 20           1.4
2.2 Cathodic Protection                  system                1          11.0
2.3 Leak Detection Equipment               set                 1           2.5
2.4 SCADA                                system                1           3.0
2.5 Network Modelling                    system                1           1.1
Sub-total (incl. contingencies)                                            19.0
Sub-total (Technical Cost)                                                 46.5
3. IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE                                               1.5
4. IMPORT DUTIES                                                           1.8
Total Prject                         i                                     49.8



-100-                    Annex 63
Page 2 of 4
Tablc 2
Distribution System Rehabilitation
Cost Breakdown by Component
(S thousand US equivalent unless otherwise noted)
Components                              Volgograd
Local       Foreign       Total
1. METERING
1.1 Industrial Meters
Base Cost        1066         9080        10146
Physical contingencies      213          1816         2029
Price contingencies       129         1102         1232
Total cost                                   1409        11998        13407
1.2 Commercial Meters
Base Cost          53          681          734
Physical contingencies        11          136          147
Price contingencies         6           83           89
Total cost                                     70          900          970
1.3 Privates Homes Metering
Base Cost         994         2059         3053
Physical contingencies       199          412          611
Price contingencies       121          250          371
Total cost                                   1313         2721         4034
1.4 Apartment-blocks Metering
Base Cost        1625         4992         6617
Physical contingencies      325           998         1323
Price contingencies       197          606          803
Total cost                                   2147         6596         8744
1.5 Gas Meters Test Equipment
Base Cost          56          203           259
Physical contingencies        11           41           52
Price contingencies         7           25           31
Total cost                                     74          268          342
2. ASSET PRESERVATION
2.1 Pipeline Replacement
Base Cost         235          818          1053
Physical contingencies        47          164          211
Price contingencies        29           99          128
Total cost                                    311         1081         1391
2.2 Cathodic Protection
Base Cost        3673         4673         8346
Physical contingencies      735           935         1669
Price contingencies       446          567         1013
Total cost                                   4854         6175        11028
2.3 Leak Detection
Base Cost          30         1888         1918
Physical contingencies         6          378          384
Price contingencies         4          229          233
Total cost                                     40         2495         2534
2.4 SCADA
Base Cost         465         1775         2240
Physical contingencies        93          355          448
Price contingencies        56          215          272
Total cost                                    614         2345         2960
2.5 Network Modelling
Base Cost         193          621          814
Physical contingencies        39          124          163
Price contingencies        23           75           99
Total cost                                    255          821         1076
TOTAL PROJECT (million US$)
Base Cost         8.4          26.8         35.2
Physical contingencies       1.7          5.4           7.0
Price contingencies       1.0           3.3          4.3
Sub-total Technical Cost                      11.1         35.4         46.5
3. Implementaon Assistance                                  1.5          1.5
4. Import Duties                              1.8           0.0          1.8
rotal Cost                                   12.9          36.9         49.8



-101-
Annrex 6
Page 3 of 4
Table 3
Distribution System Rehabilitation
Cost Breakdown by Goods and Services
(S thousand US equivalent unless otherwise noted)
Goods and Services                        Volgograd
Local       Foreign       Total
1. Engineering
Base Cost         397         1179         1576
Physical Contingencies        79          236          315
Price Contingencies        48          143          191
Subtotal                                      525         1558         2083
2. Procurement
Base Cost           0         1134         1134
Physical Contingencies         0          227          227
Price Contingencies         0          138          138
Subtotal                                        0         1498         1498
3. Equipment and Materials
Base Cost        1467        21811        23278
Physical Contingencies       293         4362         4656
Price Contingencies       178         2648         2826
Subtotal                                     1938        28821        30760
4. Installation
Base Cost        6092         1001         7093
Physical Contingencies      1218          200         1419
Price Contingencies       740          122          861
Subtotal                                     8050         1323         9373
5. Construction Management
Base Cost         315         1110         1425
Physical Contingencies        63          222          285
Price Contingencies        38          135          173
Subtotal                                      416         1467         1883
. Shipping
Base Cost         119          555          674
Physical Contingencies        24          111          135
Price Contingencies        14           67           82
Subtotal                                      157          733          891
TOTAL PROJECT (million USS)
Base Cost         8.4          26.8         35.2
Physical Contingencies       1.7           5.4          7.0
Price Contingencies        1.0          3.3          4.3
Subtotal Technical Cost      11.1         35.4         46.5
7. Implementation Assistance                                1.5          1.5
8. Import Duties                              1.8                        1.8
TOTAL COST                                    12.9         36.9         49.8



-102-
Annex 6-3
Page 4 of 4
LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS - VOLGOGRAD
Description of Major Equipment/Material                      1996      1997        1998     1999
I SCADA
PC based system with hard drive, Color Monitors, modem & printers            2         0         0        0
Gas Chromatograph & Sulphur Analyser                                          1        0         0        0
RTU with 8 analog inputs. 8 digital inputs & 8 digital outputs, and         30        20         0        0
a 1200 baud modem
Enclosures with heater/blower and UPS                                       30        20         0        0
Cables & wiring                                                             30        20         0        0
Remote Radio, antenna, pole & cables                                         30       20         0        0
Base Radio Station with radio, antenna, modem & support structure             4        0         0        0
2 NETWORK MODELLING
IBM Compatible 486166MHz DX2 Computer with 16MB RAM.                          1        0         0        0
1 GB hard drive, 500 MB Lape backup drive, 20 inch SVGA
monitor, disk drive, mouse, 101 keyboard. multipen color plotter,
laser printer and digitizer
Software package for network analysis                                         I        0         0        0
3 CATHODIC PROTECTION
Isolation Flanges 150mm diameter                                             40      200       120       100
Isolation unions 150mm                                                      100      400       200      187
Isolation unions 50mm                                                     5,000   20,000   10,000   11,955
Isolation unions 15mm                                                      300       800       800      464
Anodes/Rectifiers                                                             0       40        25        4
4 LEAK DETECTION AND TEST EQUIPMENT
Flame lonisation units                                                        2        0         0        0
Portable detectors                                                         200         0         0        0
CP Test Equipment                                                             I        0         0        0
Dead Weight Tester                                                            I        0         0        0
Coating Tester                                                                6        0         0        0
Multi-Function Gas Chromatograph                                              I        0         0        0
Calorimeter                                                                   I        0         0        0
Odourant Meters                                                               6        0         0        0
Computer Hardware & Software (technical & accounting)                   I pkge.        0         0        0
5 COMMERCIAL METERS
Meters including valves & fittings                                         250       200       200        0
(34cm/b 0 pressure drop - 5mm water)
6 PRrVATE HOME METERS
Meters including valves & fittings                                        8,000    8,000    8,000   10,000
(7cm/h O pressure drop - 5mm water)
7 INDUSTRIAL METERS
Turbine meters (4000cm/h) including regulators, isolation valves,           300      221         0        0
relief valves, flow tranismitters & fiuings
8 APARTMENT BLOCK METERS
Meters including valves & fittings                                            0        0    7,000    5,955
(34cm/h 0 pressure drop = 5mm water)
9 GAS METER TEST EQUIPMENT
Sonic Nozzle meter for proving meters up to 34cm/h capacity                   I        0         0        0
10 PIPE REPLACEMENT AND EQUIPMENT
Average 150mm diameter Grade B with 3.4mm wall thickness                      0    10km      10km          0



-103-
Annex 6-4
Page 1 of 13
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
The implementation plan for the project reflects the capabilities and limitations of the participating
enterprises and agencies, in terms of the timing and scheduling of activities and the degree of assistance
required to ensure effective project implementation. It is designed to provide a realistic schedule for the
engineering, procurement, loan disbursement and installation of the project components based on the
Bank's prior experience in Russia and the relative inexperience of the participants in project
implementation. The balance of this Annex outlines the roles and responsibilities of the key personnel
involved in project implementation, a plan for initial project work, as well as the procurement plan and
the schedules for implementation of the project components. Annex 6-7 details the Bank's supervision
schedule, which is coordinated with key implementation milestones. Annex 6-6 details the project
monitoring and development indicators, which have also been coordinated with the anticipated
implementation schedule.
Gas Distribution Component
The network improvements component of the project will be implemented over four calendar
years, starting in the third quarter of 1995 through the second quarter of 1999. All components will be
launched in the first year of the project. A team will be formed to implement the project and will be
assigned staff with relevant background. A project director will head the team and be supported by
discipline coordinators. The key discipline coordinators required will be engineering, procurement,
planning and controls, construction and installation, quality assurance and administration. Considering
the high educational level of the GDC senior staff and their understanding of the problems faced by the
companies, the preferred option would be to assign senior staff to the project from within the GDC
organisation, with the chief engineer of the GDC taking the position of project director. The following
describes the principal responsibilities for the key personnel.
Project Director: The project director will have overall responsibility for the implementation of
the project. The director will report to the general manager of the GDC and have the following primary
objectives: i) to complete the project on schedule and within the agreed budget; ii) to ensure that the
quality, safety and environmental standards agreed for the project are understood and adhered to; iii) to
ensure that all documentation and reports are prepared on time and filed accordingly; and iv) to ensure
that the implementation team functions as an effective and cohesive group.
Engineering Coordinator: The engineering coordinator will have responsibility for all aspects of
the engineering including finalizing the technical specifications for procurement, completing the detailed
engineering required for the project and preparing detailed installation procedures, drawings, schedules
and plans. In addition the coordinator will work with the procurement group to finalize the commercial
sections of the bid packages, provide the basic input for the project schedules and regularly report the
completion status of the project tasks.
Procurement Coordinator: The procurement coordinator will be responsible for all aspects of
local and international procurement including issuing procurement notices, finalizing bid packages, issuing
bids, receiving proposals, supervising bid openings, evaluations and evaluation reports, preparing and
issuing purchase contracts. The responsibilities will also include coordinating with quality assurance on
vendor manufacturing surveillance, expediting and traffic control; arranging customs clearance and inland



-104-
Annex 6-4
Page 2 of 13
transportation where required; receiving inspection reports, warehousing and materials management after
delivery.  Regular reports will be prepared showing the status of all materials and equipment.
Planning and Controls Coordinator:    The planning and controls coordinator will be responsible
for all aspects of project planning, scheduling, cost estimating and cost control. The responsibilities will
include maintaining and updating the schedules and the cost estimate for completion of the project,
regularly analysing the project costs to ensure continued financial viability of the project and preparing
progress reports on the status of the project. Reports to the Bank on the financial aspects of the project
will be prepared in the standard Bank format. Regular discussions on the progress of the project will
be held with each coordinator and advice provided to the project director of potential cost or schedule
impacts.
Construction and Installation Coordinator: The construction and installation coordinator will be
responsible for all aspects relating to the construction and installation of the materials and equipment
associated with the project including preparing schedules and detailed procedures for the installation of
al] materials and equipment, coordinating the hiring of individuals or contractors for installation and
supervising the training of these personnel. During the installation period the coordinator would ensure
that quality, schedule and cost requirements are met and will provide regular reports to the project
director and the planning and controls coordinator.
Oualit Assurance (OA) Coordinator: The quality assurance coordinator will be responsible for
ensuring identifiable goals of quality are met throughout the project implementation. Reporting directly
to the general director of the GDC the QA coordinator will liaise directly with the project director on all
project quality related matters.  The responsibilities will include ensuring quality in the engineering,
procurement and installation of the materials and equipment, engaging 3rd party inspectors to carry out
inspections of foreign and locally supplied materials where required and coordinating all other material
inspections.  In addition the quality assurance coordinator will be responsible for ensuring safety is
maintained at all times on the worksite and also that the environmental mitigation measures are effectively
carried out.
Administration Coordinator: The administration coordinator will be responsible for all aspects
of office administration including office space coordination, secretarial services, office equipment
coordination, project filing system development and maintenance and project document control.
Note: It should be noted that all the coordinators described above may not necessarily be
dedicated full time to work on the implementation of this project. For example the planning and controls
coordinator could come from the existing accounting department and may have other responsibilities also.
Similarly the quality assurance coordinator may be responsible for quality throughout the GDC. On the
other hand coordinators such as the engineering, procurement  and construction and installation
coordinators will be dedicated full time to the project and each may have several people working for
them.
Technical Assistance to the GDC: Considering the GDC's lack of experience with international
and Bank procedures, especially with regard to finance and procurement, it is proposed that consultant
support services be provided under the proposed loan. The selected consultants should be conversant
with both Russian and Bank practices and should have the backing or support capabilities to carry out
their work effectively.  It is expected that the consultants will travel to, and remain in, Volgograd
working with the implementation team on an as required basis. The consulting teamn will include the
following skill mix:



-105-
Annex 64
Page 3 of 13
(a)    Two consultants specializing in gas distribution will support the technical areas: the first, a gas
distribution specialist, with expertise in design and implementation of all aspects of gas distribution
networks will provide advice on project implementation to the project director and the technical groups.
The other, a gas metering design specialist, with expertise in metering design and specification, will be
required on a short-term basis only to assist the engineering group.
(b)    A  procurement specialist will advise the procurement group in all aspects of the procurement
process and also will recommend institutional changes to strengthen the GDC's capability to procure from
local sources and abroad.
(c)    A financial analyst will assist the planning and controls group and the GDC financial managers
in establishing project accounting procedures, in facilitating the preparation of financial statements that
conform to international standards, and in providing general financial advice to the GDCs.
(d)    An independent 3rd party inspection company will be engaged to provide factory inspections for
materials and equipment.  As most of the equipment is standard and not engineered products the
requirement for this service is expected to be small.
In view of the urgency, it is proposed that requests for proposals for consultants under (a), (b)
and (c) above be issued as soon as loan negotiations have been concluded. The cost of the specialists
is estimated at US$1.5 million. The twinning arrangements proposed under the technical assistance
component of the project would complement the activities of the consultants. In view of the timing and
the fact that the utilities executing the twinning arrangements may also lack experience in Bank
procedures, the twinning is not seen, however, as a substitute for technical assistance.
In addition to the technical assistance financed by the Bank the GDCs may require assistance from
local consultants in the following areas:
(a)    A local procurement agent may be required to provide assistance in such areas as local
procurement, customs clearance for inported materials and local transportation of materials.
(b)    Assistance from a local engineering institute may be required to prepare the detailed installation
procedures and drawings as these institutes have been doing this work in the past.
Energy Efficiency Component
RESF would be responsible for evaluating, overseeing, and administering onlending for the
energy efficiency components of the project. During the first year, the energy efficiency projects will
be restricted to three of the four cities visited during appraisal (Volgograd, Ryazan and Saratov) plus St
Petersburg. In the following year, the geographic scope will be extended to include Nizhni-Novgorod,
Samara, Rostov-on-the-Don, Stavropol, and Vladimir. Pending the findings of a mid-term review, limits
on the geographic scope of the project could be lifted for the remaining years and for projects financed
through reflows.
The responsibilities of RESF will include: (a) the review and approval of detailed sub-project
procurement needs (prepared by the district heating companies and local power plants); (b) review and
approval of the execution plan for procurement activities, review of the economic and financial rates of
return and of the financial viability of the borrower; (c) control and review of the technical and financial



-106-
Annex 6-4
Page 4 of 13
aspects of sub-project implementation; and (d) review of the environmental assessment of the sub-
projects. Based on their review, the RESF staff will submit qualifying sub-projects to a loan review
committee, which will include the agency's board, supplemented by representation from the Ministry of
Finance. The review committee will be authorized to approve projects requiring loans up to US$1
million. Projects requiring loans of more than US$1 million, as well as the first two projects in each
service area, will be submitted to the Bank for final review and approval. A separate group will be
established within the RESF to implement the energy efficiency component of the project. During the
initial phases of the project, RESF will be assisted in both project evaluation and implementation by
consultants to be financed under the institution strengthening component of technical assistance.
Two sources of financing will be made available under the project to assist RESF: (a) the spread
between the Bank lending rate and the onlending rate will include 0.5 percent to cover their administrative
costs; and, (b) part of the proposed GEF project on greenhouse gas reduction will be used to finance the
costs of establishing this unit. It is proposed that the debt servicing payments by the executing agencies
be made as two separate components - one of 0.5 percent to RESF and the other to the Government,
excluding the 0.5 percent spread designed to cover RESF's administrative costs. This would provide an
incentive for RESF to undertake an effective follow-up on repayments. The RESF will submit cash flow
and income statements on a quarterly basis, detailing how their income was spent. Ministry of Finance
will be responsible for managing repayment of the subsidiary loans. The advisability of their contracting
this task to an agency bank will be discussed during negotiations.
The primary criteria for the viability of sub-projects will be: (a) an economic rate of return of
not less than 20 percent (real); (b) a financial rate of return of not less than 10 percent (real); (c) a
demonstrated ability on the part of the ultimate borrower to finance the local portion of project costs from
internally generated funds; (d) the technical feasibility of the proposal; (e) the proposed implementation
plan; (f) a debt service ratio of at least 1.2 to demonstrate the ability, on the part of the borrower, to
repay the loan to the Ministry of Finance; and, (g) an environmental assessment which meets Russian
requirements.
Technical Assistance Component
The components of the technical assistance related to project implementation, that is, the
assistance to the project implementation teams in the GDC and the training and technical support to the
RESF, will be implemented by the beneficiary agencies. The studies proposed for financing under the
loan will be implemented by the Department for Gasification and Gas Industry of the MOFE. The
proposed technical assistance includes a component for assistance to the MOFE in overall study co-
ordination, which will provide support to the ministry's implementation efforts. It has also been proposed
that the MOFE delegate implementation responsibility for the study to upgrade and internationalize the
technical gas standards and procedures to Rossgazifikazia, based on the latter's skills and interests in this
subject.
Implementation Schedules
Gas Distribution Component: The draft schedule for the implementation process is shown on
pages 6 and 7 of this Annex. This schedule outlines the activities which must be started in the first year
of implementation.  Implementation of the project was advanced during the Loan negotiations by
reviewing draft tender documents.  The first activity will be the selection of consultants for
implementation assistance. The Terms of Reference and Letter of Invitation has been finalized and will



-107-
Annex 6-4
Page 5 of 13
be issued as soon as possible so that a contract can be signed and the selected consultanms can mobilise
shortly after the loan is made effective. At the same time the procurement process for materials and
equipment has been initiated with the drafting of a General Procurement Notice. The technical
specifications and bidding documents need to be finalised so that tenders can be issued shortly after the
loan is made effective and the consultants for implementation assistance are mobilised.  (Note: Draft
Technical Specifications and TOR for consultants have been prepared during project preparation). Issue
of the tender documents in the third quarter of 1995 is essential if contracts are to be awarded and
disbursements made in 1996. The other activity which must start soon after negotiation is the
determination of exactly how much engineering work is required by the GDC, how will that work be
carried out and arranging the resources to carry out the engineering. In addition the GDCs must start
the detailed planning of how the construction and installation of the materials and equipment will take
place.
Summary schedules for the components are shown on pages 8 through 10 and the Procurement Plan and
Schedule on Page 1l. These schedules show that the major components of meters, cathodic protection
and SCADA would require 3 to 4 years to be fully implemented.  More detailed schedules for each
component will be required as implementation progresses.  These will be prepared by the project
implementation teams within the first 6 months of the project.
Technical Assistance and Energv Efficiency Components: Page 1 1 shows the planned schedule
for implementation of the technical assistance components of the project. All of the Technical Assistance
items will be started in the first year of implementation. Finally, page 12 shows the proposed schedule
for the initial phases of implementation of the energy efficiency component. Beyond the initial phases,
however, the schedule will depend on the rate at which qualifying subprojects are submitted for appraisal
to the RESF.



RUSSIA: GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
1         I                   1995      -        1996                1997               1998               1999               2000                2001
Activity                                 Duration    Start       1   2j  31Qtr 4 Qer I tr 2|0tr 3  t4 Q  I|Qt 2Qt 3r  4  tr    2   3 I  4t       r2 32tt3   4    1Q 2I 3Qt     4  rItr 2|Qr 3
LOAN PROCESSING                            25.8w    Mar 6 '95     .
Negotiation                              Iw    Mar 6 95
Board Approval                            Id    May I195
Signing by Rusian Federation             4w    May2S5 
LoanrrtadeeffectivebyRF                13.6w:. May 3095                     I
IMPLEMENTATION ASSIST.                       31wv. Mar 13 '95
Finalise TOR                             3w   Mtr1395
Finauise list of Consulants              2w     Apr 395
Finalise LOI                             2w. Apr 1795         9
BEnk Review                              3w .  May IS .9
LOI ssue                          .      Iw. May2295
Tender Pariod                            gw   May 29 95
Proposals Received                        3d:  Jul 19S95
Proposa Evaluation                .      3w    lul24S5
Prepare Reconmmon                        2w    Aug7S5 7 9
Bank Review                              3w. Aug2l95         .
Negotiations with Consultants            2w.  Sep 1195       .          9
Contract Signed                          1w    Sep 2595      .
Consultants Arrivc                       2w      Oct 295 S
INITIAL PROCUREMENT                        93.3w   Mar 13 '95   '#
Prepre General Proc. Notice              2w   Mar 1395 
Publish General Proc. Notice            12w    May 295 
Finalise Techmical Specs.                4w   Mar 13 95
Finalise Bidding Docunts                 4w.  Apr 10 95
Baun Review                              4w    May 89S5      .p
W(D f
Date: 3249Critical                                                             Progress                             Summary                                                                          (a
Noncritical                          Milestone   *                         Rolled Up   <C>                                                               0'



I            B ~             ~~~~~~ 2j
zo~~~~~~~~.... .... ...... ........ ......  ... .... ........ .............  ........  ............ ...........   ...  ...
0                            I    ... sX .so T  t. s. t. t S9. o  I s  .*.  C w .... 4 9. c  t 0  4  P  - -c f  I
o- ~    ~   ~~~ ~~~~ oz   t   31 S   s           :6. .-           :6  O.  < t  { q      -  W R t 
U                   _l_         _ _                _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
ftci           I                             a _            L
|~ ~ ~~~~~__ __ __ _    C )
C..~~~~~~~~~_ 
I                                                          ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1  6 6   C/
1  o L  5Ba                              -60T-
t.-9g X8UUV



C,                                                              I. s*     5* s              5.                         .  .       s  . 
| ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~....    .....    .....    ..... . .....    .....   __ .    .....    ... ..  .....    .....    .....    ... .. ....  ....    ....    .....    ......
|~~                                                             I                              |    I     
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0'
-.                                                                                                                                Ci2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 .  )
Jo 8 aSe0                                                            -o T-
V _9 xauuv



RUSSIA: GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABiLITATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
1995                199-        1      1997                199S6j              1999                2000                2001
Actft                                   |DIumflon |    Start    QtFr i!r20r3a2b 4 Qtrlfi2 Qt3    4 Qtlr 12  r[t4 r                  Xr2W3?r 4kPb 1ga 2ltr3I 3k t4  l012p2t 3Kx 4Nr Ikptr2gz
ENGINEERING                                   77_ _. Jan 2                                                     195                                  1   2   3           1
Prelininary Design                        25w      Jan 2 S95
Prepare Technical Specifications          20w .  Feb 27 95
Field Survey                               8w     Mar 496
Defuie isolation Sections           .      Sw: Apr 29 96
Finalize material quantities               8w:;  Apr 29 S6
PROCUREMENT                                   14Sw. Sep IS 95                 _I
Prepare Conunercial conditions            12w    sep 1895
Bid, Evaluate & Award                     26w:  Jun 249~6
Fabricate & Deliver                       82w . D. 2396
CONSTRUCTION                                  104w: Mar 17 197
Install Isolation Fittings               104w: Mar 17'97
Install Rectifierm, Ground Beds           52w    Sep 29 97
START UP &COMMISSION                           48w: Feb 16'98                                                                                                                                               F-
Start up &Commnssion                      48w;  Feb 1699
TEST EQUIPMENT                               106w    Mar 1'95   _                   I
PrepareSpecifications                     20w     Marl 195
Develop Operting Procedures               52w:! Mar 13 96
Bid, Evaluate & Award                     26w    Sep13 95       .
Deliver Equiipmenit                       40w:   Jun 5 '96
Opetor Training                           l6w    Oct23 96       .
(CDM
Deliver_ Equipnn.  40w  Jun 5 S6  .                                  x
Critical                              Progress                               Summary                                                                              0)
Date: 3/24/95                                                                                                                                                                                             0   1
Noncritical                            Milestone   *Rolled Up   ()t



f~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..... ....... ...... ....... ...... ...... ..... ...... s...... ........ ....... ...... ..... ..... ....... . ..... ...... ....  ... .. ....
ki~~ii
L ~      ~ .........1........ ........ ............. ..... .. ...... . ... ....... ............. ....... ....   .. .... ....
U'                                                     i  i                    1.                                   1 ;                          I 
I                                                                   I
El 40 O1)                                                                                                                          - 0 ied
V-9 xauuv                                                                   1-



-113-
Annex  6-4
Page 11 of 13
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISrRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Preliminary Procurement Plan and Schedule
Nature of           Cost       Method of    Prep. of   Submission   Award of   Completion
Package           Estimate   Procurement   Document    of Bids       Contract   of Package
million US$                  mo/yr       mo/yr        mo/yr       mo/yr
Industrial Meters                4.0      ICB        Sep-95       Jan-96      May-96       Jan-97
Industrial Meters                7.6     ICB         Sep-96       Feb-97      May-97       May-98
Industrial Meters                0.4      IS         Sep-96       Feb-97      May-97       May-98
Commercial Meters                0.5      ICB        Sep-95       Jan-96      May-96       Jan-97
Conmmercial Meters               0.4      ICB        Sep-96       Feb-97      May-97       Jan-98
Private Home Meters              1.5    ICB           Sep-95      Jan-96      May-96       Oct-97
Private Home Meters              1.2    ICB           Jan-97      Apr-97      Aug-97       Jul-99
Apartment Block Meters           0.5      ICB        Sep-95       Jan-96      May-96       Jan-97
Apartment Block Meters           6.0      ICB         Jan-97      Apr-97      Aug-97       Aug-99
Apartment Block Meters           0.1      IS          Jan-97      Apr-97      Aug-97       Aug-99
Meter Test Equipment             0.3      ICB        Sep-95       Jan-96      May-96       Jan-97
Pipeline Replacement             1.1     ICB          Jan-97      Apr-97      Aug-97       Mar-98
Cathodic Protection              1.0    ICB           Sep-95      Jan-96      May-96       Jan-97
Cathodic Protection              4.9      ICB        Sep-96       Jan-97      May-97       Jan-98
Cathodic Protection              0.3      IS         Sep-96       Jan-97      May-97       Jan-98
Leak Detection                   1.0    ICB          Sep-95       Jan-96      May-96       Jan-97
Leak Detection                   1.1     ICB         Mar-96       Jun-96       Oct-96      May-97
SCADA                            1.2    ICB          Sep-95       Jan-96      May-96       Jun-97
SCADA                            0.9      ICB        Sep-96       Jan-97      May-97       Jun-98
SCADA                            0.2      IS         Sep-96       Jan-97      May-97       Jun-98
Network Modelling                0.8      ICB        Sep-95       Jan-96      May-96       Jan-97
Energy Eff. Projects            18.0   ICB/IS        Sep-95       Jan-96      May-96       Jan-97
Energy Eff. Projects            24.0   ICB/IS        Sep-96       Jan-97      May-97       Jan-98
Energy Eff. Projects            18.0   ICB/IS        Sep-97       Jan-98      May-98       Jan-99
Technical Assistance
Implementation Support           1.5   Shortlist      Jun-95      Aug-95       Oct-95      May-99
RESF support                     2.0   Shortlist     Nov-95       Jan-96      Mar-96       Feb-98
Institutional support
(2 contracts)                1.2  Sole source    Nov-95       Jan-96      Mar-96       Sep-97
(6 contracts)                6.8   Shortlist     Mar-96      May-96       Aug-96       Sep-97
TOTAL                          106.5



IMPLEIM ATION SCHEDULE - TECINICAL ASSISrANCE
TA Itan                           1         2         3        4         5         6         7        8         9
Finalize terms of reference and
consultant short list    9/15/95   9/15195   9/15/95   9/15/95   12/31/95  12/31/95  12/31/95 12/31/95   9/15/95
Circulate request for proposals  9/30/95   11/30/95  11/30/95  11/30/95  3/31/96   4/30/96   5/31/96  6/30/96    11/30/95
Deadline for submission of proposals  11/15/95  3/1/96    3/1/96    3/1/96    5/31/96   6/30/96   7/31/96  8/31/96    2/28/96
Evaluation of proposals         12/15/95  4/15/96   4/15/96   4/15/96   7/15/96   8/15/96   9/15/96  10/15/96
Contract award                  1/1/96    6/30/96   5/15/96   5/15/96   7/31/96   8/31/96   9/30/96  10/31/96   3/15/96
Draft Report                    N/A       N/A       1/31/97   10/31/96  4/30/97   5/15/97   6/30/97  12/31/97   11/3L1
Final Report                    12/31/99  6/30/98   3/15/97   12/15/96  5/31/97   6/15/97   7/31/97  3/31/98    12f31MO
Completion of assignment        12/31/99  6/30/98   3/31/97   12/31/96  6/30/97   6/30/97   12/31/97 6/30/98    6/30/98
H
Key to Items:
1.    Assistance in Project Implementation - GDCs
2.    Training and Technical Assistance - RESF
3.    Energy Pricing Strategy Study
4.    Study of Gas Legislation
5.    Study of Tariffs for Gas Transit
6.    Gas Network Reconstruction Study
7.    Privatization Study
8.    Gas Standards Study
9.    Third Party Access Study and Co-ordination of Study Work (sole source)
* Report on Third Party Access Study
o x



-115-                                Annx 64
Page 13 of 13
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - ENERGY EFFICIENCY COMPONENT
First Phase - Evaluated Projects
ICB Components                                                                 Start Date
Solicitation of Formal Applications                                           April, 1995
Receipt of Applications                                                       April, 1995
Evaluation of Applications                                                    April, 1995
Preparation of Specifications                                                 April, 1995
Preparation of Draft Tender Documents                                     September, 1995
Approval of On-lending                                                    December, 1995
Circulation of Tender Documents                                             January, 1996
Deadline for Submission of Initial Bids                                       April, 1996
Award of Contracts                                                           August, 1996
Completion of Installations                                   December 1996 - March 1997
IS Components                                                                  Star Date
Solicitation of Initial Applications                                          April, 1995
Receipt of Initial Applications                                               April, 1995
Evaluation of Initial Applications                                            April, 1995
Preparation of Detailed Specifications                                    September, 1995
Approval of On-lending                                                    December, 1995
Requests for Quotations                                                     J January, 1996
Selection of Preferred Supplier                                            February, 1996
Award of Purchase Orders                                                   February, 1996
Completion of Acquisition                                                      June, 1996



-116-
Annex 6-5
Page 1 of 5
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PLAN
1.    The Bank has determined that this project requires a "category B" Environmental Mitigation Plan
(EMP), as defined in the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment, O.D. 4.01.
2.    The Russian Federation environmental requirements are outlined in the Environmental Assessment
Manual, 1992, which implements RSFSR Law on Environmental Protection, no. 2060-1, adopted
December 19, 1991. According to RSFSR Law on Environmental Protection No. 2060-1, adopted 19
December, 1991, Section V, Articles 36, 37, and Section VI, Articles 40,42 and 43, and Environmental
Assessment is required for this project under the category of "rebuilding of facilities." According to the
Environmental Assessment Manual, updated in 1992, ecological and other related implications of a project
must be considered in "remodeling or technically refurbishing" facilities. An EMP is also required if
foreign equipment is introduced. The environmental analysis is subject to review by the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources.
3.    After approval of the loan, site specific engineering will be undertaken in order to determine
parameters of each project. The engineering phase will result in recommendations for locations of pipe
replacement and specific amounts of pipe to be replaced. Locations for implementation of cathodic
protection will be determined after new leak detection equipment is in place and a survey of the system
has been completed. Specifications for the SCADA system will be developed, required RTU and meters
for the industrial and commercial customers will be identified and suppliers selected after evaluation of
competitive bids is completed.
4.    The engineering phase will also result in development of specifications for installations of burners,
controls, BTU meters, control values for district heating systems and district heating plant modifications,
and specifications of similar equipment as well as heat recovery systems for the industrial plant energy
conservation projects.
5.    Subsequent EMPs will be prepared by each of the three cities on the specific gas distribution
system projects. These EMPs will be reviewed by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and the Ministry of
the Environment and Natural Resources and by other agencies as appropriate.
6.    During preparation of the EMP, discussions took place with representatives of the Environmental
Committees and occupational safety officials in the three cities as well as representatives of the Ministry
of Fuel and Energy and the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources. Their interests and
concerns were incorporated in the EMP.
7.    The beneficial impacts of the project include reduced methane leak potential and potential for gas
conservation. These are discussed in greater detail below.
8.    Reduced Methane Leak Potential: Replacement of deteriorated pipes, installations of a cathodic
protection system and new testing equipment will reduce the potential of gas leaks and result in two
impacts:
*     Increase in public safety by reducing the risk of explosion due to undetected leaks;



-117-
Annex 6-5
Page 2 of 5
*     A cumulative beneficial impact resulting from the reduced potential for release of methane to the
atmosphere, thus reducing the greenhouse effect. Since methane emissions produce a greenhouse
signal that is 20 to 50 times greater than carbon dioxide for equivalent emissions, it is the second
most significant greenhouse gas being emitted by man's activities.
9.    Potential for Gas Conservation: Increased efficiency in the delivery of gas through the reduction
in the potential for leaks, through pipe replacement, cathodic protection and new testing equipment, better
system controls through installation of SCADA, and the combination of upgrading and new metering and
a change in pricing policy will result in gas conservation. This will make more natural gas available to
accommodate future population growth. As market forces create a greater external demand for gas at
higher prices, increased sales made possible by conservation of gas will result in an increase in an
economic benefit to the Russian economy.
10.   As a result of implementing the gas conservation projects (district heating and industrial plants),
the total yearly emissions of NOx. would be reduced by 1,064 tons and C02 emissions would be reduced
by 83,621 tons. These are considered to be beneficial projects.
11.   The potential adverse impacts of the project are the following:
-     Construction Impacts--Pipeline replacement will result in short term construction related impacts.
This will include traffic circulation, air quality, odor, soil erosion, water quality, fish movement,
noise and public safety risks.
-     Traffic Circulation and Other Public Activities--a potential temporary disruption of traffic
movement.
-     Air Quality--dust during clearing and grading activities, during trench digging and while moving
soil.
-     Odor--gas venting will result in odor near blowdown sites. The duration of detectable odor in
these cases is usually from a few minutes to an hour.
-     Soil erosion-in hilly areas there would be a potential for increase in soil erosion as a result of
the pipe replacement activities.
-     Water quality--if oil degraded pipes are not removed and disposed of properly at river crossings,
this could result in degradation of water quality.
-     Barrier to Fish Movement-trenching in the rivers may result in a temporary barrier to fish
movement.
-     Construction Noise-trucks, bulldozers, and welding equipment will be required for grading,
trenching, pipe laying, and back-filling. These pieces of equipment produce noise levels of 70-85
dBA at a distance of about 50 feet.
-     Increased Public Safety Risks-the old pipes that will be removed will be purged of gas and then
removed. There is a potential for public safety risks from normal construction operations.
12.   Mitigation measures that need to be taken are the following:



-118-
Annex 6-5
Page 3 of 5
a)    Construction Mitigation Measures for Pipe Replacement-- Protection of other Utilities--prior to
construction, the location of other utilities underground and above ground in the vicinity of the pipe must
be identified and permits from local authorities obtained. During construction, all the other utility lines
must be protected. Each utility should remain in full operation during construction. All ditches must
be returned to their original condition or better.
b)     Construction Safety-- In addition to the World Bank Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines,
Russian Federation Requirements will be adhered to as follows:
*  Instructions of SNiP 2.04.08-87: "Gas Supply" and "Safety Rules for Maintenance of Gas
Utilities ";
*  Russian Federation Health and Safety Regulations in the Gas Industry, 20 October, 1991;
*  Norms for Safety in Construction Industry, 1991;
*  Safety Rules and Norms in the Construction Industry. Noise Protection, July 1, 1978;
*  Federal Standard GOST 12.1.003-83
*  SNiP 2.05.06-85, Section 9, Environmental Protection for Pipelines;
*  SNiP 3.05.02-88, Building Code Gas Supply;
*  The State Committee for Safe Performance Supervision in Industrial and Mining Sectors, Safety
Rules in Gas Industry;
*  GosGor TechNadzor, Safe Operation of Reservoirs which are under pressure;
3  RosStroysGas, Operations, Regulations in Gas Industry, Health and Safety Regulations, July 1,
1992.
Each city has its own occupational safety regulations. Construction procedures should be in conformance
with all city regulations that apply.
c) Construction Procedures:
* Research of Pipelines--no excavation should be undertaken until detailed research of the existing
underground structures is completed by a qualified pipeline engineering concern.
* Pot holing--pot holing is the advance digging by hand to locate underground structures. Pot
holing should be used whenever it is necessary to locate the position of underground structures.
* Protection of Existing Drainage Patterns-at stream or river crossings, new pipeline should be
buried at least 3 meters under the scour line.
* Erosion control--in hilly areas where there is a potential for erosion, an erosion control plan
should be prepared.
* Dust Control--the construction area should be sprayed with water to control dust.
* Construction Noise--prior to venting of gas as part of pipe replacement operations notice should
be given to surrounding area residents and commercial and industrial establishments. Construction
activities should take place only during the daytime, and should conform to city noise ordinances and
regulations, as applicable.
* Treatment of Removed Old Pipes--the old pipes that will be removed should be purged of all gas
and then removed. Pipes that are abandoned in place should be cut, capped, and filled with inert



-119-
Annex 6-5
Page 4 of 5
nitrogen gas to eliminate future risks.
* Water Quality--the hydrostatic test water should be drawn from nearby sources, pressurized in
the pipe, tested for contamination, and then discharged to an existing waterway.
* Solid Waste-all solid waste generated at the construction site should be removed from the site
and deposited at an approved solid waste disposal facility.
* Toxic Soil--The potential for the presence of toxic materials in the soil should be investigated
prior to construction, and construction activities should be carried out according to the best practices
of health and environmental safety.
* Construction Inspectors--the gas utility in each city should designate inspectors to perform regular
inspections of construction activities to ensure that the contractors are following proper construction
procedures.
e Fire Protection and Emergency Response-an emergency response should be prepared for the
project prior to construction.
3 Continuation of Vehicular Circulation--vehicular circulation should not be disrupted during
construction.
* Vehicular Safety During Construction on the Road and on the Construction Site--all Federal and
local laws dealing with vehicle safety during construction should be adhered to.
* Future Maintenance--future maintenance activities should be undertaken on a regular basis as
follows:
* Periodic checks of cathodic protection equipment to ensure proper operation and effectiveness of
corrosion protection; maintain active participation by other agencies to ensure that notice is given
by them prior to excavating in the vicinity of the gas system pipe; leak surveys; maintenance of
valves, regulators, and metering devices according to regular schedule.
Mitigating Measures Monitoring:
a)    Public involvement during project implementation should be conducted as part of the project for
the residential and the commercial establishments that would be affected by the short term construction
impacts of the project.
b)    Monitoring of the implementation of mitigation measures should occur before, during and after
the pipe replacement has taken place. Monitoring should encompass all the mitigation measures required
as conditions of the project to ensure that they have been properly executed. Monitoring should be the
responsibility of the Environmental Coordinator.
In order to ensure that the project mitigation plan is executed effectively, the environmental management
capability of Volgograd Gorgas should be enhanced. Organizational changes should be instituted as
follows:
* A new position of Environmental Coordinator should be established within each gas utility



-120-
Annex 6-5
Page 5 of 5
company.
*  A staff development program for environmental compliance should be instituted
* Technical Assistance Program designed to keep the newly appointed Environmental Coordinator
current with developments in the environmental field
* Equipment Support for Environmental Management to support the environmental coordinator and
the personnel in the Environmental Committees. Various types of equipment should be supplied
to assist them in their work. Equipment considered are computers, including environmental and
gas distribution standards and procedures translated into Russian, fax machines, noise meters, and
air filters.
c)    Implementation responsibilities of the training program will be the responsibility of the GDC.
Areas of training would include:
m A counterpart coordinator will be designated in the foreign GDC to supervise training activities
there. This coordinator will be responsible for implementation of the program as planned. Each
trainee will have a mentor for the duration of the training. The mentor will be responsible for
follow-up, guidance, and support to the trainee while he/she is abroad.
* One person will be designated for training. This person will spend a total of three months
abroad. The first month will be spent during the engineering phase, in the first 6 months of the
project. The second month will be spent just prior to start of construction. The third month will be
spent after construction is completed.
Cost mitigation strategies are as follows:
a)    No additional costs are expected for construction mitigation measures because the best engineering
and construction practices would incorporate all of the measures recommended above as part of the
project cost. The cost of the public involvement program would be included in the project specific EMPs
to be prepared at a later phase.
b)    The total cost of the mitigation program would be $205,000, consisting of about $40,000 per year
for the environmental management program, $115,000 for the environmental training program, and
$50,000 for equipment.



-121-
Annex 6-6
Page I of 2
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
During project implementation a number of key indicators will be reviewed to ensure that the
project's objectives are explicitly monitored and controlled. The key areas of concem under the project
are that: (i) the financial viability of the borrowing enterprise is maintained; (ii) projected energy savings
take place; (iii) access to information increases to enable improved network design; and, (iv) project costs
are minimized. The following outlines the key variables that will be assessed and how the information
will be dealt with which are summarized in the table below.
Monitorable Targets
1996       1997       1998       1999
Gas Distribution Component (cumulative)
Meters Installed                         3,000     18,000     38,000     48,000
Cathodic Protection
- Design Finalized                         1
- Implementation                         0.1        0.4         0.8          1
SCADA - Base Stations                       0          4           4          4
- No. of Points                     0         20         40         50
Pipe Replaced (km)                          0          10         20
Energy Efficiency Component (cumulative)
Gas Saved (MCM)                                   100,000    200,000    380,000
Financial Performance (annual)
Self-Financing Ratio                  20%        30%        30%         30%
Return on Revalued Assets             10%        10%         10%        10%
Debt Service Ratio                     1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5
Accounts Receivable (sales equivalent)  3 mo.    3 mo.      3 mo.      3 mo.
Financial Viability
The key areas of concern regarding financial viability of the enterprises relate to self-financing
capability, debt servicing capability and the level of accounts receivable relative to sales.



-122-
Annex 6-6
Page 2 of 2
Each October, the utility will furnish a budget for the next fiscal year, indicating how the
proposed self-financing ratio covenant will be met to ensure that local costs can be financed from
internally generated funds. The analysis will focus on prices and production costs to ensure that
appropriate actions are taken to meet the project objectives.
Within three months of the end of each fiscal year, Volgograd Gorgas will furnish a copy of its
audited financial statements to the Bank for review. This review will focus on the profitability of the
enterprise and ensure that no new debt is undertaken that would undermine its debt service capability.
It will also focus on the return to shareholder's capital, so that the transition to a successful independent
joint stock company can be realized.
The accounts receivable situation is the current primary concern in the energy sector. Hence,
monthly summaries (which would later become quarterly summaries once they have been proven to be
successfully dealt with) of the status of this variable will be reviewed. Specific actions on debt swaps
and cutting-back/off supply to non-payers will be reviewed during supervision missions.
Energy Savings
The project includes two components that are expected to result in energy savings - induced
reduction of gas use from metering and investments in equipment that will decrease energy consumption.
The reported gas savings from similar metering projects in Russia has ranged from 25 to 50 percent.
Therefore, data will be collected on gas consumption during the early stages of meter implementation to
establish baseline data. Monthly records will then be kept for a period of about two years (to establish
the effect of seasonality on consumption) to determine the impact of metering on household gas
consumption.
Investments in energy savings (burners, controls, boilers) will be assessed to determine the impact
of these investments on energy efficiency. If some of these investments are shown to have particularly
high impacts, RESF will attempt to have similar investments implemented in other cities.
Access to Information
Under the gas distribution rehabilitation component, the GDC will have improved access to
information as a result of the SCADA system. The combination of this information and network analysis
tools is expected to enable their staff to better design investments in system upgrades. The leak detection
equipment will also provide better information on fugitive methane emissions. This information, coupled
with the implementation of cathodic protection, will enable the GDC staff to identify problem areas in
their network which need to be addressed. This information will be collected to determine the best way
in which the cathodic protection system should be implemented and will enable the GDCs to assign
priorities for pipe replacement.
Project Costs
Uncertainties with respect to project costs will be explicitly dealt with during project
implementation. One of the key questions that will be addressed is the ability of Russian suppliers to
compete under Bank-financed ICB. If barriers to entry are identified, an assessment of these barriers will
be undertaken to determine how they might be overcome.



-123-
RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                            Annex 6-7
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT                           Page 1 of 1
PROPOSED SUPERVLSION PROGRAM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                ..... .............. _. __..._. ___..____..__...._..........
Approximate                                                      Expected Skills
Dates      .       .Activity                                     Re,!!ire4        Manweeks
Jun-95 Project Launch                                 Task Manager                      2
Start Studies                                  Gas Engineer                      2
Recruit Consultants                            DH Engineer          j            2
Finalize Tender Docs                           Financial Analyst                 2
Review 1995 Financial Budgets                                                    8
Nov-95 Bid Document Review                            Task Manager                      2
Review 1994 Financial Statements               Gas Engineer                      2
Review Bid Documents                           DH Engineer                       2
Review Cathodic Protection                     Financial Analyst    1            2
Review Pipe Replacement                                                          8
Feb-96 Bid Evaluation                                 Task Manager                      2
Review Bid Evaluations                         Gas Engineer                      3
Review Implementation Logistics                DH Engineer                       3
Review New Energy Efficiency Projects                                            8
Jun-96 Year 1 Review                                  Task Manager                      2
Review Studies                                 Gas Engineer         1            2
Review Bid Evaluations                         DH Engineer                       2
Review Implementation Logistics                Financial Analyst    E            2
Review 1995 Financial Budgets                  Lawyer                            2
Review New Energy Efficiency Projects                                           10
Mar-97 Bid Document Review                            Task Manager                       2
Review 1994 Financial Statements               Gas Engineer                      4
Review Bid Documents                           DH Engineer                       4
Review Cathodic Protection                     Financial Analyst    |            2
.Review Pipe Replacement                                                        12
FY98 to FY00
October Review Bid Documents                           Task Manager                      2
Review Implementation Logistics                Gas Engineer                      2
Review 1995 Financial Budgets                  DH Engineer                       2
Review New Energy Efficiency Projects          Financial Analyst                 2
8
March Review 1994 Financial Statements                Task Manager                      2
Review Bid Documents                           Gas Engineer                      4
Review Cathodic Protection                     DH Engineer                       4
Review Pipe Replacement                        Financial Analyst                 2
1~~~1
FY01 Project Completion Review                       Task Manager         !            2
Gas Engineer                      2
DH Engineer                       2
Financial Analyst                 2
_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _     _  _   _      _  _     _  _      _  _                  8



-124 -
Annex 7-1
Page 1 of 6
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ASSUMPTIONS
A.    Project Costs
1.    Cost estimates and the timing of the costs for the Control and Asset preservation and Metering
components and the timing of these are based on the cost estimated, as shown on page 3. The cost
estimate for the Efficiency component is based on consultant estimates.  The timing of the costs for the
efficiency component are assumed to be divided 30, 40 and 30 percent in 1996, 1997 and 1998
respectively.
2.     Environmental costs are included in the control and asset preservation component. Costs for an
environmental coordinator position in each city is are included as well as a training component. The
estimate also includes equipment to enhance the environmental capability of the utility in each city. The
total costs are US$141,000 in year 1, US$66,000 in year 2 and US$20,000 thereafter.
B.    Project Benefits
Control and asset preservation component:
-     Extension of pipeline lifetime from 20 years to 60 years:
- Replacement cost of buried pipelines: US$114/m. The timing of the benefits is pro-rated
in accordance with cumulative capital costs incurred, including a one-year lag function.
-     Power savings - Economic value: US$0.065/KWh.
-      Savings related to network analysis and control - 10 percent increase in benefits obtained
through extended pipeline life.
Efficiency Component
4.    The sum of gas savings in each project, as estimated by the consultant. The timing of the
benefits is pro-rated in accordance with cumulative capital costs incurred, including a one-year lag
function.
- Economic value: US$40/MCM
Metering Component
5.     Gas savings:
- Industrial meters: 2 percent of gas consumption
- Apartment blocks, private space heating and commercial customers: 25 percent of
consumption. The timing of the benefits is pro-rated in accordance with cumulative capital



Annex 7-1
Page 2 of 6
costs incurred, including a one-year lag function.
Economic value:
- Industrial customers: US$40/MCM.
- Commercial, apartment blocks, private space heating: US$140/MCM



PROJECT COSTS
Total         1996        1997       1998        1999
Control and Asset Preservation
Total*                                      15.24        3.69        5.81       3.90         1.49
- Pipe Replacement                           1.05
- Cathodic Protection                        8.35
- Leak Detection Equipment                   1.92
- Meter Test Equipment                       0.26
- Network Analysis                           0.81
- SCADA                                      2.24
Meters
otal                                       20.55        3.96        8.28       4.16         4.16
- Industrial                                10.15        2.91        7.23       0.00        0.00
- Commercial                                 0.73        0.34        0.28       0.11        0.00
- Private Homes                              3.05        0.70        0.70       0.69        0.96
- Apartments                                 6.62        0.00        0.06       3.36        3.20
Energy Efficiency
Total  E                                    44.55       13.36       17.82      13.361
* Total includes $0.6 million associated with environmental mitigation program.
pJ>
Q:D
(D (D
0 1
ON



PROJECT BENEFITS
Component                 Control and Asset Preservation                                  Metering                               Efficiency
Benefit factor             Reduced Asset           Power         Industrial     Commercial    Private Homes    Apartments          Gas savings
Replacement Cost        Savings      Gas savings      Gas savings      Gas savings      Gas savings
extension of lifetime                                  ResidentiaU      Residential/     Residential/     Ind LRMC
Economic value            from 20 to 60 y. + 10%  $0.065/Kwh      Ind LRMC       Comm LRMC        Comm LRMC        Comm LRMC          $40/Mcm
from network analysis                   $40/Mcm         $140/Mcm         $140/Mcm         5140/Mcm           CHP
Unit                $ mill./year       $ mill./year     MCM/yr           MCM/yr           MCM/yr           MCM/yr           MCM/yr
Total Annual Benefit                                              29,682           24,075           30,600           26,169          279,537
Value ($ millions)                7.55           0.12             1.19             3.37             4.28             3.66            11.18
1996                   0.00           0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
1997                   1.90           0.03             0.34             1.57             0.98             0.00             3.35
1998                   4.90           0.08             1.19             2.86             1.96             0.04             7.83
1999                   6.91           0.11             1.19             3.37             2.94             1.89            11.18
2000 - 2016                  7.55            0.12            1.19             3.37             4.28             3.66            11.18
0I
ka)



PROJECT ECONOMICS
Component         Control and         Metering         Efficiency          Total           Total
Asset                            Investments           Gas              All
Preservation                                          Distribution    Components
EIRR              EIRR              EIRR              EIRR            EIRR
52%               59%              25%               56%            38%
Net Benefits         Asset                             Efficiency        Meters &
($ millions)     Preservation        Metering          Program      Asset Preservation    Total
1996              -3.69             -3.96           -13.36             -7.64          -21.00
1997              -3.88             -5.39           -14.46             -9.26          -23.73
1998               1.08              1.88            -5.54              2.96           -2.58
1999               5.53              5.23            11.18              10.77         21.95
2000               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2001               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33 f      
2002               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33                       co
2003               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2004               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2005               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2006               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2007               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2008               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2009               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2010               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2011               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2012               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2013               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33
2014               7.65             12.51             11.18             20.15          31.33
2015               7.65             12.51             11.18             20.15          31.33
2016               7.65             12.51             11.18             20.15          31.33
2016               7.65             12.51            11.18              20.15          31.33@ 
20171_             7.65             12.51,           11.181             20.15          313                          (D (D
Ln
-4
0c



Metering -
Net Benefits
EIRR        59%        10%    459%        140%         55%
Year          Total    Industrial Commerc. PrivSpace   Apartments
1996       -3.96      -2.91    -0.34     -0.70         0.00
1997       -5.39      -6.89    1.28       0.28        -0.06
1998        1.88       1.19    2.74        1.27       -3.32
1999        5.23       1.19    3.37        1.98       -1.3
2000       12.51       1.19    3.37        4.28        3.6
2001       12.51       1.19     3.37       4.28        3.6
2002       12.51       1.19    3.37        4.28        3.66
2003       12.51       1.19    3.37        4.28        3.66
2004       12.51       1.19    3.37        4.28        3.66
2005       12.51       1.19     3.37       4.28        3.66
2006       12.51       1.19    3.37        4.28        3.66
2007       12.51       1.19     3.37       4.28        3.66
2008       12.51       1.19     3.37       4.28        3.66
2009       12.51       1.19     3.37       4.28        3.66
2010       12.51       1.19     3.37       4.28        3.66
2011       12.51       1.19    3.37        4.28        3.66
2012       12.51       1.19     3.37       4.28        3.66
2013       12.51       1.19    3.37        4.28        3.66
2014       12.51       1.19     3.37       4.28        3.66
2015       12.51       1.19     3.37       4.28        3.66
2016       12.51       1.19     3.37       4.28        3.66
2017       12.51       1.19    3.37        4.28        3.66
CD (D
Ox
0I



-130-
Annex 8-1
Page I of 6
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
I.    This Annex outlines the assumptions used in the financial analysis of the project, and details the
findings of the assessment of the financial internal rates of return.
A.    Financial Rate of Return - Metering
2.     Gas distribution companies would benefit financially from the meter installation program only
through more accurate measurement of quantities purchased and sold. More accurate measurement has
two potential impacts: first, it will eliminate the under-reading of industrial sales and purchases that is
currently experienced as a result of the age of the meters; and secondly, it will help to reduce or
eliminate the "losses" now incurred as a result of billing by norms. (The GDCs purchases from Gazprom
are metered, but sales to residential and un-metered commercial customers are estimated based on the
norms. The sum of the quantities purchased and quantities billed do not always match.)
3.    In estimating the benefits of metering, it was assumed that meters would eliminate the losses now
incurred as a result of billing commercial customers based on norms. It was also assumed that, once
the meters were installed, commercial customers would reduce their consumption to the level of the
norms. Hence commercial sales volumes would remain unchanged (except for projected changes in the
demand forecast), but the gas purchased to supply these needs would decline by the level of estimated
"losses". Current commercial losses as a percent of commercial sales were estimated by the consultants
as being 0. 1 percent for Volgograd Gorgas.
4.    In the industrial sector, financial benefits were based on the premise that existing meters are
under-reading both sales and purchases by 1 to 2 percent. The benefits calculation assumed that more
accurate metering would result in an increase in sales and purchases equal to 1 percent of current and
projected industrial sales.
5.     For residential customers, it was originally anticipated that metering would yield benefits similar
to those in the commercial sector - although to a much greater degree since norms were judged to be
significantly less than actual consumption. However, the norms for residential gas usage have recently
been increased to as much as double their previous levels. This increase should effectively eliminate most
discrepancies between the amounts billed and the amounts consumed. Consequently, the installation of
residential meters was assumed to yield no financial benefit to the utilities.
6.     Other assumptions relating to the calculation of FIRR on the metering component of the projects
are as follows:
Retail gas prices (constant 1993 price levels, excluding VAT):
Commercial, industrial                           US$40 per MCM by December, 1995
Residential                                      US$40 per MCM by December, 1997
Retail margins (% of purchase price):
Commercial, industrial                                    13.9%



-131-
Annex 8-1
Page 2 of 6
Residential                                            455.6%
Capital Cost of Projects:
As per cost estimate (expressed in 1993 price levels) plus 5 percent duties on foreign currency
components. Grant financing under the Global Environment Facility was deducted from the
capital costs to determine FIRRs of the implementing agencies.
Installation of Meters:
In accordance with cost estimates for each utility
7.    The table on pages 4 shows the calculation of FIRR on the metering component of the project
for Volgograd Gorgas. The estimated FIRR is 12.3 percent.
B     Financial Rate of Return - Metering with Rental Charge
8.    Clearly, the metering component of the project is not financially viable from the perspective of
the Gorgas under the base assumptions with regard to prices. While the potential economic benefits are
substantial in terms of induced conservation and consequent freeing up of gas for export, financial
returns to the gas distribution company are minimal and insufficient to support the investment required.
Possible approaches to resolving this problem include:  (a) recovering part and/or all of the meters'
costs through a demand charge and/or through direct customer contributions; or (ii) setting gas prices
based on a defined return on assets.
9.     Under the first alternative, customer charges or contributions would have to cover a substantial
proportion of meter capital costs. Assuming that on-lending to the gas distribution companies is at a
nominal rate of 10 percent, repayable in foreign currency, financial returns on the project would have
to be in the order of 7.5 percent in real terms simply to cover borrowing costs. Allowing for a return
on equity of 15 percent, and assuming a long-term capital structure of 60:40 debt/equity, a minimum real
FIRR requirement would be in the order of 10 percent. To achieve a 10 percent FIRR on the metering
component of the project, Volgograd Gorgas would have to recover 92 percent of the capital costs of the
meters from their customers. Given that the unit costs for meters are estimated to be US$90 for private
homes, US$840 for conmmercial customers, US$500 for apartment blocks (which would serve
approximately 10 customers each), and US$17,000 for industrial meters, an attempt to finance the
meters through up-front customer contributions is constrained by customer ability to pay.
10.   Alternatively, the Gorgas could impose a demand charge which would recover the financial cost
of the meters (including a 10 percent return on investment) over a more extended period. Recovering
the full cost of the meters over 10 years would require monthly demand charges as shown in the table
below. If the Gorgas were to recover only that percentage of meter cost required to yield an overall 10
percent return on the investment (i.e. 92 percent on average), demand charges would be reduced
accordingly.



-13 2-
Annex 8-1
Page 3 of 6
Annually                    Monthly
Commercial                                       $138.00                      $11.40
Private Homes                                     $14.65                       $1.20
Apartment Blocks (per unit)                        $8.15                       $0.70
Industrial                                      $2,767.00                    $230.60
11.   To place these demand charges in perspective, residential norms for cooking plus water heating
(typical of an apartment unit) are in the order of 85 m3 per month which, at US$40.00 per MCM would
suggest an energy charge of US$3.40. The demand charge would therefore represent roughly a 20
percent increase in the monthly bill. For private homes, which are likely to also use gas for heating,
norms would be in the order of 600 m3 per month, giving a projected monthly energy charge of
US$24.00. The demand charge of US$1.20 represents only a 5 percent increase in the monthly bill.
The charges are also moderate relative to incomes, as average monthly incomes are approaching
US$200, and total household incomes are therefore presumably approaching an average in the order of
US$300-400/month.
12.   Assuming that the meter rental charges are set to fully recover the capital costs of meters and
meter installation (assuming a capital recovery requirement of 10 percent/10 years), the FIRR on the
meter component of the project would rise to 14.5 percent. The table on page 5 provides details of these
calculations.
C.    Financial Rate of Return - Network Improvements
13.   Financial returns to Volgograd Gorgas as a result of investments in network improvements
(cathodic protection, SCADA, network analysis tools) will accrue from the same sources as the economic
returns; that is, a combination of deferred pipe replacement, reductions in investment requirements, and
reductions in electricity costs.
14.   For the financial analysis, the cost of pipe replacement was estimated to be US$114 per meter.
This presumes that Russian prices for materials would be equal to international prices, but that prices for
local services and labor would be only 40 percent of international prices.
C.,
15.   Annual savings in pipe replacement were calculated as the difference between replacing the full
network over a 20 year period and replacing it over 60 years. In addition, the use of more sophisticated
network analysis tools was assumed to add an additional benefit equal to 10 percent of this saving.
Annual savings in electricity costs were based on consultant estimates of savings in kWh consumed, and
an electricity cost of US$65.00 per MW.h.
16.   Page 6 summarizes the assumptions of the financial analysis for the network improvement
components of the project, and shows the estimated FIRR. Financial returns on this component are
estimated at 34.9 percent.



METERING IMPACTS - ALL METERS
VOLGOGRAD
Financial impacts of Metering Projects
(1993 $US X 1000)
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000   2001-17
Cost of Meters - Constant $US
- Foreign                                         3,561     7,241     3,146     3,067
- Domestic                                          653     1,036     1,017     1,088
- Duties                                            178       362       157       153
Change in Purchases (1)
- Residential
- Commercial                                         -3        -9       -13       -13        -14       -14       -14
- Industrial                                        137       642       980     1,007     1,030      1,042     1,066
Change in Sales (1)
- Residential
- Commercial
- Industrial                                        156       731     1,117     1,148     1,173      1,187     1,215
Net Cash Flow                                     -4,370    -8,541    -4,171    -4,155       157       159        163
FIRR -,real                            -12.3%
Duty Rate                                  5%
(1) escalated with projected demand growth after 1998
(D (D
0p 



METERING IMPACTS - ALL METERS
VOLGOGRAD
Financial Impacts of Metering Projects, including Rental Charge
(1993 $US X 1000)
1994      1995      1996       1997      1998      1999      2000   2001-17
Cost of Meters - Constant $US
- Foreign                                          3,561      7,241     3,146     3,067
- Domestic                                           653      1,036     1,017     1,088
- Duties                                             178       362        157       153
Meter Rental Charge Revenues                          357      1,418     2,472     3,174      3,525     3,525      3,525
Change in Purchases (1)
- Residential
- Commercial                                           -3        -9       -13       -13        -14       -14       -14
- Industrial                                         137       642        980     1,007      1,030     1,042     1,066
hange In Sales (1)
- Residential
- Commercial
- Industrial                                         156       731      1,117     1,148      1,173     1,187     1,215
Net Cash Flow                                      -4,013    -7,123    -1,699       -980      3,682     3,684     3,688
.        . .  ....  .. .. -.. .... . ..  .   ..    .. . . .
FIR   el R                               14.3%
Duty Rate                                   5%
(1) escalated with projected demand growth after 1998
CQ D
M (D
x
Ul
co
0i
1h1l



-'35-                                               Annex 8-1
Page 6 of 6
Financial Impacts - Network Improvement Projects
- Impacts on Pipe Replacement & Power Costs
Economic/Financial Cost of Pipe (100 m Sections)
. .X ....*.....**..*     L.... ....a.
...        .......~~~.c~~:. :t.t.~~:~ .::y~,:.:
Civil Works                                           $54.00        1.0     $ S54.00
Engineering                                          $12.00        1.00    $12.00
Materials                                            $36.00        1.00    $36.00
Resurfacing                                          $12.00        1.00    $12.00
$114.00               $114.00
.           ....................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  . .. .. .. .
Length of Pipe (km)                                                1805
Econ. Cost per km ($000)                                            114
Fin. Cost per km (S000)                                             114
Total Required Investment ($000)                                205,770
Average Annual Investment ($'000)
- without Projects                                               10,289
- with Projects                                                   3,430
Average Savings                                                   6,859
Additional Due to Analysis Tools                                    686
Total Annual Savings                                              7,545
Annual MWh Saved                                                  2,032
Cost of Electricity ($/MWh)                   65
Duties on Foreign Supplies                   5%
Financial Intemal Rate of Return - Volgograd
Capital Cost of Projects - $000
Foreign                                                2,679      3,872      2.256        827
Local                                                    465      1,869      1,623        639
Duties                                                   134        194        113         41
Annual Savings in Investment - $000                                                     3,772      7,545       7,545     7,545
Annual Savings in Electricity - $000                                                       66        132        132        132
Net Cash Flow                                         -3,278     -5,935     -3,992      2,331      7,677       7,677     7,677
FIRR - real                               34.9%



-136-
Annex 8-2
Page I of 5
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
RISK ANALYSIS AND MANAGEMENT
Background
1.    Projects in Russia, in general, face a considerable degree of risk. Many of the risks are
attributable to the uncertainties associated with the stability of the macroeconomic environment. In
addition, project specific risks include uncertainties on equipment and installation costs and the
effectiveness of the equipment. As the newly formed joint stock companies have acquired new
responsibilities and reporting requirements (to their shareholders), some initial problems will arise
affecting their ability to perform effectively.
2.     As a result of the potential impacts of these uncertainties, a risk analysis was undertaken with
a goal of managing these risks to avoid unacceptable project returns. The process of determining a
risk mitigation strategy consisted of the following steps:
(1)    establish a risk list based on a brain-storming session with technical, economic, and financial
specialists experienced in similar projects;
(2)    establish a risk mitigation list of possible remedies that would address the risks identified in
(1);
(3)    model the stochastic nature of project implementation without the risk mitigation to determine
the expected rate of return and its probability distribution;
(4)    analyze the impact of each of the risk mitigation strategies to determine the impact on
expected returns and its variance;
(5)    formulate a risk mitigation strategy based on an analysis of the costs and expected benefits of
the proposed risk actions.
Risks
-Rik List .. .     3.      The risk list compiled identified a set of key risks indicated in
Table 1. The primary risks are associated with the cost of the
Equipment Quantity  equipment and the expected value of the benefits. The equipment costs
Equipment UnitCt        are subject to a number of uncertainties.  The most likely costs assume
Equiipment Unit Costs   standard foreign costs based on the assumption that Russian costs will
Output Prices        approach foreign costs (or greater) as input subsidies are reduced,
Energy Savings       based on experience in Central Europe. However, Russian supplied
Investment Plan       equipment could remain low if manufacturers take advantage of low
Russian labor costs while upgrading equipment quality to meet
international standards. There is a possibility this scenario could take
place as a number of foreign manufacturers have either established joint ventures or they are actively
pursuing this option. Equipment costs could also decrease if equipment is supplied from another
country whose labor costs are low, as has been the experience on other similar projects. Installation
costs could also be less than that assumed if the Gas Distribution Companies (GDCs) increase
productivity. This may happen as a result of their becoming joint stock companies and based on
guidance from their foreign partner. Some productivity gains could be initiated by reducing the size
of the teams responsible for construction. The quantity of equipment required could also vary



-137-
Annex 8-2
Page 2 of 5
depending on the evolution of the gas market. Some companies could go bankrupt, and no longer
need the equipment. However, new companies may require gas supply as investments take place.
Migration would also have an affect on the size of the market and, hence, the equipment needs.
4.    The project benefits are a function of a number of assumptions that are fraught with
uncertainty. The pace of the price reform program has an affect on the value of the benefits and
market size (as energy efficiency responses take place). The size of the market is a function of many
assumptions on the reform program, including economic growth and the structure of the economy.
Not only is there uncertainty with respect to the nature of the reforms, but also the rate at which they
are implemented.
5.     The size of the benefits associated with energy savings depends on the effectiveness of the
equipment, systems design and equipment maintenance. The "most likely" case represents a
conservative estimate of the benefits, to compensate for potential implementation problems and poor
maintenance. However, as companies are privatized, the incentives to succeed will mitigate this
problem.
6.    The benefits of the asset life extension component are also uncertain. The consultant
responsible for project preparation assessed the benefits from this program to represent 10 percent of
the investment program costs based on experience abroad. However, based on the system design in
Russia, the consultant estimated that these benefits could be as high as 15 percent of the investment
program. In addition to this fundamental assessment of the potential benefits of asset life extension
are the uncertainties inherent in the investment program itself, including the amount of equipment
required and the unit costs of this equipment.
Risk Mitigation Actions                                              Risk MIitigiation List
7.     Given that the project is subject to many uncertainties, project  Pr* Refo
design and proposed implementation were formulated to reduce the risk   nrice Reform
of achieving unsatisfactory financial returns. Given that the economic  Institutonal Reform
returns are robust, and that the GDCs have become joint stock         Training/Twinning
companies with 51 percent private ownership, it was determined that   Phased Procurement
the analysis should focus on financial returns.                       Financial Covenants
Gas Market Analysis
8.     Most of the managers of the GDCs visited expressed concern     Procurerent Review
about the financial viability of the investments given the uncertainties
on price reform. The project design requires prices to industrial
customers (all customers except households) to reach US$40/MCM by
the end of 19951, when investments are expected to start to be commissioned. This risk has been
addressed by the following approach. Project processing has been contingent upon continued price
reform. The price increases during 1993, particularly the decree in July 1993 which increased
industrial prices and linked monthly adjustments to inflation, made project processing feasible as the
Government made its commitment to price reform clear. Continued process of gas prices has been a
condition of Board presentation.
1 The project financial benefits are not directly a function of price as the GDCs revenues are a function of
the differential between the purchase price from Gazprom and the selling price to the customer. However, the
Government has linked wholesale and retail price increases. Therefore, the margin associated with a
US$40/MCM of about US$5.00/MCM is the price objective for the GDCs.



-138-
Annex 8-2
Page 3 of 5
9.     Further measures in continued price reform are dealt with through the financial covenants.
The design of the covenants are based on three principles: (a) adequate internal cash generation to
fully finance local costs; (b) adequate internal cash generation to maintain a debt service ratio of 1.5;
and, (c) adequate returns on net revalued fixed assets (10 percent) to attract equity financing. These
covenants will be reviewed frequently during the project implementation cycle to ensure that project
financial viability is maintained. Because of the divisible nature of the project, procurement will be
closely linked to financial returns. A major, mid-term project review will take place to assess the
costs and benefits to ensure the continued viability of the project. Semi-annual reviews will be
undertaken to ensure that key indicators are being maintained such as, price levels, equipment costs,
installation costs, energy savings and overall network investment costs.
10.   Institutional reform is considered to be a cornerstone of the expected success of the project.
The formation of independent joint stock companies has been a condition of inclusion under the
project. The benefits associated with corporatization/privatization are largely a function of the
attitudes and focus of the management and employees of the GDC. The employees have become
shareholders in a joint stock company whose benefits are directly tied to the financial success of the
GDC. There is considerable evidence that attention to profitability has already been established. The
GDC has been careful with the size of the project, having reduced the size of the loan to make sure
that only its priority needs are addressed.
11.    During project implementation, institutional reform will be reinforced through
twinning/training relationships. Volgograd Gorgas would be linked to a foreign GDC who would
provide training in key areas like: (a) technical aspects such as cathodic protection, metering and
SCADA systems; (b) financial and accounting practices based on GAAP standards; (c) management
information systems; (d) marketing; and, (e) human resource development. Shareholders and the
Board of Directors are expected to take an increasingly active role in the functioning of the company.
This is expected to be further reinforced when the Government further divests of its shares. This
process would be dealt with under a study in which the Government would seek assistance from
consultants on divestiture of its remaining shares.
12.    A component of the bid evaluation process is expected to include an assessment of the
financial viability of each project component given the bid prices. Should the lowest evaluated
technically responsive bid be much higher than the estimated cost, a review of the procurement
process would take place to identify problems. If problems warrant it, they could be dealt with
through retendering. If the cost of equipment would, through some unforeseen problem, jeopardize
the project or the owner's financial viability, the component would be dropped from the project.
Analysis
13.    Each component of the project's financial costs and benefits were assigned a probability
distribution based on the uncertainties for costs and quantities of capital expenditures for each year of
implementation. For ease of representation, each expenditure was assigned a triangular distribution,
representing most likely, minimum and most likely. The stochastic nature of the process was
simulated using a conunercially available risk analysis program. The simulation made use of Latin
2   Unlike power generation and similar projects whose benefits are contingent upon completing all of the
proposed investments, this project can achieve benefits with only part of the project implemented. For example,
installing half of the meters will result in half the benefits, cathodic protection on half the pipe network will
achieve half of the life extension benefits, etc.



-139-
Annex 8-2
Page 4 of 5
Hypercube sampling to increase the accuracy of representation of the input distributions.
Results
14.   The two different subcomponents of the gas distribution component - metering and asset life
extension - were analyzed separately. The Base Case on Asset Life Extension (cathodic protection,
SCADA and pipe replacement) resulted in an expected FIRR of 23.7 percent. This is less than that
indicated by the deterministic evaluation of the FIRR because the probability distribution of the
benefits are negatively skewed. The analysis was rerun, assuming that, as a result of pro-active
support of Russian manufacturers by the GDCs, Russian manufacturers would compete for the supply
contracts (Scenario 1). This was modelled by increasing the probability of a low priced bid. As a
result of attracting interest of Russian manufacturers, the expected FIRR increased to 25%. The
second scenario added the impact of modifying the bidding process if the bid prices were higher than
expected. This scenario (Scenario 2) assumed that if bid prices were higher than an acceptable
margin, bidding documents would be revised and rebidding would take place. The results of this
action would increase the expected FIRR to 25.8%. Scenario 4 added the impact of increasing
project implementation efficiency. This is expected to take place as a result of the formation of joint
stock companies, combined with the comprehensive twinning/training. This resulted in further
increasing the expected FIRR to 26.5%. Figure 1 summarizes the results of the incremental impact
of these assumptions.
Figure 1
95%
90%
85%
80%
75%
70%
65%
~60%I
aOR 5650%%              -/- /  Zf                                      *    Base Case
0
w 450%  I                                                                    Scenario 1
45%I
-c 4%-aSScenario 2
J 40%
35%                                                              -i    Scenario 3
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0      0       0      0              P 
*&   M3  Ml   M               io     k
en     on      tl     cm      en     01
ASSET LIFE EXTENSION FIRR



-140-
Annex 8-2
Page 5 of 5
15.   A similar analysis was undertaken for the metering component. The Base Case on Metering
(commercial, private houses, industrial, apartment and meter test equipment) resulted in an expected
FIRR of 11.9 percent. Scenarios 1, 2 and 3 (as outlined above) increased the expected FIRR to
12.3%, 13%, and 13.2%, respectively. A further analysis (Scenario 4) assessed the impact of
improving the metering cost recovery through the proposed meter rental charges. This increased the
expected FIRR to 15.6%. These Scenarios are summarized in Figure 2.
Figure 2
95%
90%
85%
80%
75%
70%
65%                                                                        Base Case
a 55%                                  -                                     Scenario 1
0
50%              t                                                          Scenario2
~45%
r I  r lScenario 3
- 40%
35%             /                                                         Scenario 4
30%
25%
20%       I:
15%
10%
5%
o    o    0    0    0    0    0    0
o    .-    ..         .~  .3  .~    .
O    -    M    X    42 0 n   cD 
0o   0    0    0    0    0    0    0
METERING FIRR



-141-
Annex 8-3
Page I of 6
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
GAS DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PRO FORMA FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1.    This Annex details the assumptions and findings of the analysis of the financial performance of
Volgograd Gorgas, incorporating the financial commitments associated with the project, and summarizes
the findings with regard to the project's financial viability in terms of the cash flow and debt servicing
capabilities of the borrower, and of the projected ability to comply with financial covenants.
A.    Cash Flow and Self-financing Analysis
2.    A review was carried out to examine the ability of Volgograd Gorgas to finance the local share
of the project costs and also to adequately meet reasonable debt service and return-on-asset requirements
over the project life. Cash-flow projections were developed based on current and projected sales, sales
margins, and operating costs, and incorporating the cash flows associated with financing the projects and
meeting debt service requirements.
3.    Base financial figures were obtained for 1992 and 1993. Projections of revenues were based on
forecasts of sales volumes and retail prices. Operating costs were projected based on wholesale prices
associated with the retail price forecasts, and on inflationary adjustments to 1993 cost levels. VAT has
been excluded from both the purchase and selling prices of gas, since it is essentially a pass-through item
from the perspective of the utilities. Balance sheet accounts were generally adjusted with inflation,
through links to sales and expenditure projections (for example, inventories, accounts payable and cash-in-
bank were linked to operating costs, accounts receivable were linked to projected sales).
4.    Income statements have been prepared based on a GAAP style accrual basis. This could overstate
the corporate income tax liability, particularly during the first one to two years while the accruals
problem is being resolved. Over the longer term, however, the accrual basis is likely to conform to
actual statements as utilities follow the general move to accrual-style accounting.
5.    The key assumptions in the cash-flow analysis are summarized on Page 2. Page 3 provides
highlights of the findings. Pro forma income statements, balance sheets and source and application of
funds statements are included on Pages 4 through 6.



Cash Flow Analysis
AAs3umptionj                                                                     1992             1993            1994             1995             1996            1997             1998             1999            2000             2001            2002
Corporate Income Tax (of Profits)                                                  32.0%           32.0%            35.0%            35.0%           35.0%            35.0%            35.0%           35.0%            35.0%            35.0%           35.0%
Property     Tax     (of   A ssets)                                          ................   ........  ............   ........  ............   .........................  1.0 %   .    ................   .........................   ................   ........ ........    ........ ........  .............. .....l
Road     Tax     (of   Sales     M argin)                                   ................   ........  ............   ........  ............   .........................  0 .4 %   .    ................   .........................   ................   ........ ........    ........ ........  ............... ...l
D uties     (Foreign     Suppliers)                                         ................   ........  ............   ........  ............   .........................  5.0 %   .    ................    .........................   ................   ........ ........    ........ ........  .............   ....l
Depreciation (Years - Straight Line)                         ................ ................................ ................                            30 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................................
Interest Rate                                                                                       10.0%           10.0%            10.0%           10.0%            10.0%            10.0%           10.0%            10.0%            10.0%           10.0%
Dividend Pay Out                                                                                                                                                                       50.0%           50.0%            50.0%            50.0%           50.0%
Loan Repayment - years                                                                   17 years
Grace Period                                                                              5  years
Escalation  Rates
Int'l in US$                                                                                   1.30%           1.94%            3.15%           2.95%            2.85%            2.70%           2.60%            2.50%            2.50%            2.50%
Cumulative International                                                        99              100             102              105              108             111              114              117             120              123              126
Russian                                                                                      827.2%    481.8%                   64.1%           29.9%            12.9%              6.2%            6.2%             6.2%             6.2%            6.2%
Cumulative Russian                                                              81             751            4369             7171             9319           10521           11170            11859            12590           13367            14191
US$/Ruble Exchange - average                                                                           719            2385            3741             4605             4841             4980            5118             5255             5401            5558
Depreciation Rate                                                                                     3.3%            3.3%            3.3%             3.3%             3.3%            3.3%             3.3%             3.3%             3.3%            3.3%
Revaluation Rate                                                                                 823.2%    481.8%                   64.1%            29.9%            12.9%             6.2%             6.2%             6.2%            6.2%             6.2%
Natural Gas - Cost of Purchases - Current R/MCM
Residential                              600             600           6,106           10,061          11,391           12,094           12,840          13,632           14,473           15,365
Other                          6,808    43,907   114,335   197,661   221,337   234,989   250,099   264,870   281,207   298,551
Natural Gas - Sales Prices - Current R/MCM
Residential                           1,667            1,667          14,182    23,371                 26,461           28,093          29,825           31,665           33,618          35,692
Otherl                         7,756    50,022   130,256   225,186   252,159   267,711   284,926   301,754   320,365   340,124
tQ10
: 3
x
0
ol  l1



VOLGOGRAD GORGAS
PRO FORMA FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Acrue            Actual          Esttmatod        Esdtimttd        Eslinmtd         Estimated        Enmat.d           Estimted         Esti*ated        Estimted         Estimated
Be" Cae                                              1992             1993              1994             1996             1996             1997             1998             1999             2000             2001              2002
.... . .. . , , .. .. . . . . . . -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- - - . -- - -- - -- -- - -- .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. . ..     - -- - -   -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - - . -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -   -------- .... ----------- --........-   ----- ----- ----- -----   --- --- --- --- --- ---
HIGHUGHTS OF FINDINGS
Natural Gas.- SaleS (MCM)
Residential                                            179.424          188.703          227.355          220,893          214,325          207,670           200,952          194,197          187.418          184.668          181,911
Other                                                3,393,043        3,387,185        3.183,797        3,144,133        3,221,506         3.283.495        3,372,901        3,448,962        3.492,399        3,569.945        3,636.874
Total                                                3.572,467        3,575,888        3,391,152        3.365.026        3,435,831         3,491,165        3,573.853        3,643,159        3,679,817        3,754,613        3,818,785
Price in Rubles/MCM
Residenrial                                                               1,667             1.667          14.182           23,371            26,461           28.093           29,825           31,665           33,618           35,692
Other                                                                      7.756          50,022          1 30.256         225.186          252,16 9          267.71 1         284.926          3011,754         320,365          340.124
Net ProfitllLossl                                      63,322          931.236        2,769,896       16,225.938       35,406,863        39,668,879       40,340.769       39.786,920       42,107.093       47.731,089       53,497,274
Net Profit I Net Revalued Assets                                           234%              19%              73%               50%              27%              21%              18%              19%              21%              23%
Investment - locl                                                              0                0                0       7,128,629       18,652,376        16,571.014       11,538,381                0                 0                0
Investrnent - foreign currency                                                 0                0                0      37.089.479       59,897.375       30,760.668        23.380.577                0                 0                0
Extemal Fnancing - cuulative                                                 0%                0%               0%              84%              79%              75%              74%              74%              74%              74%
Funding Surplus/Shortfall                                                      0       3.092.061       16,471,861       28,718,316       24,778.373        10,495.914        9,973,571       24,491,315       27.478,298       30,669,963
Cumulative Surplus/Shortfall                                                   0       3,092,061       19.563.922       48,282.238       73,060,611        83,556,524       93.530.095     118.021,410       145,499,708      176.169,671
Total Debt Service                                                             0                0                0        1,854,474       6,893.895        11,710.734       25,564.187       26,283.786       25.816,631       25,334,880
Debt Service Coverage                          _______             _____________21.6                                                             7.4               5.1              2 5              2.6              2.8   ____  3.1
Receivables/Sales                                         5.0%            20.5%            20.5%  _____________  .___________           __________  ____________  ________2____
P abeslPurchases                                          7.1%            23.9%            24.0%                                                                                                                                                                   F'
w  (D
0
Fh, 00



VOLGOGRAD GORGAS
PRO FORMA FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Acsui          Actual    I  Estimated      Estmated       Esdmasted      Estimat.d      Estimated      Estimated     Estinated      Estimated      Estimated
Base Case                                    1992            19319                         951996                       1997           1998           1999          20G0           2001           2002
(Rubles . 1000)
OPERATING INCOME
Sales R"evenes
Natural Gas. Residential                                 159,672        378.925      3.132,791      5,009,050     5.495.093      5.645.292      5,792.010      5.934,591      6.208,174      6.492.680
Natural Gas. Other                                    31,068.590    158.259,344. 409.543.035   725,436.768   827,962.224  902.964.129    982,699,495  1.053.843,792  1.143.685.599  1.236,989.814
Natural Gas. Total                                    31,228,262    1 586.37.269    412,675,827    730,445.618    833.457,317    908.609.421    988.491.505  1.059,778.383  1.149.893,773  1,243.482,494
Meter Rental Cha,ge                                            0              0              0      2.889.002      9,475.221    12,925,931     16.626,465     17.498.316     18.425,089     19,415,739
[PG Rewenun                                               31.012        180.426        296. 146      384.811        434.469        461,366        489.716   _ 519.921           551.988       596,034
Total Sales Revepues                       3,597,549     31.259.274    158.817,894   412.971,972    733,71 9,631   643.367.007    921,996.616  1,005,607.666  1.077.796,619  1,168,670,851  1.263,484.266
Other Revenues                                 4.020        111,622        649.399      1.085.905      1,385.036      1,583.7686     1,680,219     1.782,617 _ 1,671,331         1,988,750      2,109.2899
Net Non-Operating Income               8______                 ,814         51.278         64,167        109,387        123.480       131.096        1 i39-,161     147,766        156,880        166.556
TOTAL INCOME       3.801,569     31,379.710    159,519.372    414.122,045    735,214,036    646,054,255    923,787.931  1.007.509.484  1.079.815,716  1.171,014,481  1.265,760,111
OPERATING EXPENSES
Gas Purchanse
Natural Gas, Residential                                                130.386      1,349,5680     2.156,418      2.365,661      2.430.322     2,493,495      2,54,667       2,672,646      2.795,12 7
Natuwal Gas, Other                                                  136,914,334    359,484,351    636,766.209    726,759,919    792.594.298   862,583,563    925.031,851  1,003,992.242  1,065.791.629
Natural Gas, Total                       2,447.017    27,469,164    139.050,720    360,833.032   683,922.626    729.125.580   795,024,620    865.077.048   927,588,719  1.006,564,887  1,086.586,955
LPG Costs                                                139.903        916,355      1,343.224      1.745,385      1.970,617      2.092.160     2,221,200      2.358.196      2,503.647      2,658.066
PsyoK                                         '123.810       848,094      4,934.079      8.098,655     10,523,392     li.881,371    12.614.188     13,392,203     14,216,305     15.095,153     16,036,1899
Benefits                                                     324,022      1,886.109      3.094,164      4,020.557     4,539,385      4,619,365      5,118.613      5,432.194      5,767,240      6.122,951
Depreciation                                                  37,204      1,293,366      2.106.484      2.737.165     4,564,316      7,464.159      9,502,254     11,252.298    11,946,315      12,693,137
Maintenance & Repair                          107,928        297.968      1.733.531      2,845.368      3.697.272      4.174,382     4,431,849      4,705.195      4,995.402  -5,303,507         5,630.616
Value Added Tao RemiTtances                   792.292
Property Tax                                                   5.088        76.250        555.825      1.267,731      2,850.174      4.137,791      4,888,326      5,514.394     5,923,165      6.418,220
Road &OCther Taxes                                            14.605        75.794        203,193        360,650        411,162       447,816        4866.732       5 21,414       565.509        611,294
Other Services                                                94,160        547.907        699,155      1.1688.362     1,319.132      1,400.493     1,486.872      15.79          1.675.943      1.779,311
Gas Sector Rehabilitation Fundl                                           1,956,655      5.184.260      9.152.319     10,433.174    11,358.480     12.34-1,446    13.219,167     14.332.689     15.4899.554
Other Costs                                                   31,769        184,943        303,561       394.447        445.348        472,816        501,978  _    532,939         565,610       600,708
Profits Defweed to Future Periods                            474,693                                                                                4                            18263
Interest E.p*nses3                                                        0                     0       1,954,474     6,893,995     11.710.734     14217,602      14.633,473     1,4,3          13,012,917
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES   _3,470.845         29,735,690    152.550,710    385,466,930    675.944.381    778.608,556    855.974,469    933.937,469  1,001,842,979  1.084,086,699  1,169.619,817
EARNINGS BEFORE TAXES.                        130,724      1,644.020      6.967,862     28.655,114    59,269.654     68.445.699     67,813.462     73.572.01 5    77,972,-736    86.927,781    -96,140.293
NON-OPERATING EXPENSES
Amortize Eochange Fluctuation                                      0              0             0              0              0              0      4,066.358      4,361.8863     4,298,799     4,244.852
Escess Payroll Tao                         25,596       251,317       1,462,123     2,399,697      3.118,413      3,520,825      3.737.982      3.968.532     4,213.303      4,473.1 70     4,749,085
Corporate Income Tao                       41,918       461.467      2.438,682     10.029,290     20,744,379     23,255,995     23,734.71 2    25.750,205   _27.290.456     30,424.724     33,649.103
TOTAL NON-OPERATING EXPENSES           67,402        712.784      4,1897,76-7   12,429.177     23.862,792     26,776.819    27,472,693     33.785,096     35.865,643     39-,196,892    42,643.019
NET PROFIT/(LOSS)                                             931:26        28769896     1Q,225,3       35G40688 3                   4240289 7Q11A    _a692        417  9         47,731089           .29 274
MWemo: weigSled ~Ave Cost of Gas                                7.61 5        41 .004       107,230        195,959       208,849-    222,456           237,452        252.074       268,089        265.061 
Memo: Weighted Ave Sales Plrice t1 Gas                          8.733         46,790        122.637       212,597        238.733        254,238        271.328        287,998        306,262       325.623                      0
Memno: Mar in per unit sold                                     1,052          5,776         15,406         26.638        29,895         31,782         33,976 L       35.923         38.174        40~,561                     -ht  co
Memo: Cash Ibm Fro  Natural Gas                         3,760,099    19,586,549     51,842.795     91,523.191    104,331.737    113.584,601    123,414.457 L132.191,665    143,328,886    1 54.695.539 
Memo: Cas Floes trm LPG                                  1108,891)     1637.9291    (11047.079) ___1.360,574)    (11536.147)1   (1,630,894)    (11,731.4841    (11838,27861    (1,951.659) ___2.072033)                     ONu



VOLGOGRAD GORGAS
PRO FORMA FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
ActCal           Actne           Esttmntd         Es4mt78. 2 d     Est5,826ted      Est7i7323d       Es1m1d 8,Es08ti7  9       f  -Es3ted                Est2t2  d        Es1n11 ted
8tatt C.33 1992                                                       1993              1994             1995             1996             1997             1998             1999             2000             20021             23702
(Rubles x 1 000).__
ASSETS                   __
Cash _ _ _ _et Reale47,997 26698                                        3049 3 15 1,770,457             2,905,977        3,776,027   14,            2        63,300  4.526,251  4,805,421 5,101,808            5,416.477         5,750,553
Sort Term 1-t,,esmens                                        __ j     .      .       ............... .....  3,092,061  19 563,922  48,202,238  73,060,611  83,556,5241    9,3,9             1,2,1            4,9,0            7,6,7 
Cash hln Iestmenrs                                      47,997          304,315       84.62.518         22,469,899      52,058,265        77,323,911       88,082,775       98,335,516      123,123,218      150,916,185      181,9205224
Ac-counts re&e,v-ble - trade                 I         1 79, 378      6 ,404,683      32, 540,006      84, 613,434     150,331,117      172. 796, 664    188, 907 ,010     206,038,002      220. 828, 724 _239,488, 836       258,874,089
Accounts rec-avbl. -ther                                 _              410,553        2.085.880        5,423,891        9,636,526        11.076,612       12,109,317       13,207,448       14.155.563       15,351,714       16.684,347
MaNterials mventory _12,947                                             182,752        1, 063,~222      1,745,143        2,267.639         2,560,264        2,718,175        2,885,826        3,063,818        3,252,787        3.453.412
VAT Recabile                                                             53,755
OtherNassets                               ty33                          12547            721996       415,814          87.1687          1375.777             186,619          1834 2.        216,35 9         221,023        295,08 7
Total Curren Asset          241,855         7,368,605      40,624,622     114,372,182       214,449,233       263,933,227      292,003,896      320,664,921      361.381.672      409.232,845      461,079,170
E.chtange Fluctuat.o. - Debt                                                   0                0                0                0        1,900,785        4,740,154        4,345,141        3.950,128        3,555,115        3,160.103
AdsedCsto xed           Assets                      1, 250, 729_       946.926       3 8.650 1-.0-43 6 63.1 194. S 1~8    126, 333,062  215,479,244     2 71, 256.437     3 19.986. 584    337, 568, 931    3 58,389.444     380.494,12 1
_Less  Accumulated Deprc-t-o                _        983,79           1549,1631    (23,611,774)    (40,862,179)    ISS F5833 47981         (67,602,764)    (79,236,513)    (93,625,902)   (110,652,841) ..    94398) (5,0976
Net Revalued Asse.Zs _      26)6,980         397;763        14;889;269       22 332;339       70,499,583      147,876,480      192,019,924      226,360,682      226,916,090      228,965,464      230,404.41
Caia   ok nProlss|                                      _                68,625            68,625           68.625           68,625           68,625           68,625           68,625           68.625           68,625            68,625 
TOTAL ASSETS            508.83         7.834.993       55.582.516      13677314         285 017 441      413.779.118      48.3.9            551.439.369      592 316 516      641 822 049
LIABILITIES h EQUITY_ _._
Current Liabdiltoes                          I
Accounts payable - T,ad.                             172 ,888       6.599 ,046  _33.52 7.498         8 7,181,199     154,893 .218     178.040, 526     194, 639, 773 _212 ,290,640        22 7.530, 216    246. 756.607     266. 730,144
Acco.nts payable  Other                               32,129          464,702        2.703.563        4,437.552         5,766.155        6,510,241        6,911,779 _      7.338.082        7.790,679        8,271.191        8.781.340
Other Liab.l,t-es                                                          7,356          42,796            70.244           91.275          103,054          109,410          116.158          123,323          130,929          139,004
......................... - ----------------------..  -----    --- --- --  -- --   -- - -    - - ........ ..................    ........ .......................    .................... I- - - - - - - - - - -- - . . - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - I= ......... ......   ........  - - -- .. . ...  ......
Total Curren L,ab,1,1.es      205,017         7,071,104      36.2 73.858 _ 91.688.995          160, 750,647     184,653,822      201.66-0.962 _  219.744,880       235,444,218      255,158,727      27.548
Long Term Debt                                 _                                                0                0      37.089.479 1 98,887,6398              132.487,675  148,193,012      140.509.569      132,439.360      12,613
Budgetary Funds                                             ..              .3              8,938            8,938            8,938            8,938            8,938            8 938 ....                         893
Total Lr.ng T.,. Lbsbdnties                _         8,938            8,938            8,938       37,098.417       98,896.577      132,496,613      148,201,950      140.518.507      132,448.298      123,976,074
Other Liabdiles h Eq.-ty
Revaluation Surplus                                        0_0                      15.774.874       25.324.428       32.010.729       35.402.193       39,678,114        48,602,168       60.409.874       74.405.562       88,527,651
Special(fund                                         286,011 1        737,144 |0                               0 _0                              0                0                0                 O              -0                 0
Chartertund                                           17.807           17,807 |          17.807           17.807           1 7,807          17,807           17.807           1 7.807          1 7,807          17,807            1 7.807
Retained Earn.ngs                 _                                                     3,507,040    19,732,977       55,139.840       94,808,719      114,979,103       1 34.872.563     155.926,110      1 79,791,654     206,540,291
Net Equ.Tyl        303,818          754,951       1 9299,721       45,075;212       87,168,376      130,228,719       154,675,024      183,492.538      213579           242503           290879
1------- - ------ ---  ------------------ --- - - --- --  1--------- - --- -- ------------------                                              ------------------------  ------------ - -----.---- -- --------
TOTAL LIA81LIT-IES h EOUITY          5865           73493            55251          136 773 145 1285.017.441          413,779,118 1488.832.599           551 439.369      59.1.11          641.822.049       9   1.1                  U1 | D
k 
Fh |C
0:)



VOLGOGRAD GORGAS
PRO FORMA FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Actual            Actual          Estmated    | Estiated             Estinted    |   Estimated          Esteratad        Estkmated         Est iad          ESnimated         Esimated
Base Cm"                                              1992              1993             1994              1995             1996              1997             1998              1999             2000              2001             2002
--   - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -   ------ ----- ----  .......     .....  -   -------------, ,    .   .... ...,,,,,......         .. . . .. . . ..          -    -- - - -- - - -  --- --   ,,-,,-,,-,,-,,,-.-,-,-,,-,,-,,-,,,-,, ,... ...... . .
iRubles  1 000)                             _ _              _    _                  
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Profit/lLoss)                                                                      2,769,896       16,225,938        35,406,863       39.668.979        40,340.769       39.786,920        42,107,093       47,731,089        53,497,274
Interest                                                                                        0                0        1,854,474        6,893,895        11,710,734       14,217,602        14.633.473       13,842,636        13,012.817
Depreciation                                                                           1,283,368        2.106.484         2,737,165        4,564,316         7,464,159         9,502.254       11.252,298       11,946,315        12,683.137
------   ---.      .............  , ,==mm=Aww~mm    .......... ,.    .....     ...    -----------,,....   ......... ,,,mm   , ,, ........   ,,,,,, ,,,,,,, _........,,.  W,, ,, -------- ,.  .....
Internalty-Generated Funds               _   __          _          4.053.264       18,332,421       39,998,502        51,127,091       59,515,661        63.506,776       67.992.863        73,520,040       79,193.228
Long-Term  Debt                                      __=              _________                 0                 0      37,089.479        59,897,375       30,760,668        23,380,577                 0                 0                 0
Amnrtine Eshange Fluctuaton _o__ _ _                                                             0                0    __           0                0                 0       4,066,358         4.361.883        4.298,799         4,244,852
Emternally-Generated Funds                                                   0                 0      37,089.479        59.897.375       30,760,668        27.446,935        4,361,883         4.298.799        4,244,852
-- - - -- - - -   -- - -- - -- - - - - -   ----,     ,,,,,   ,   ,,,,,,,, ,,  ... . . . . . . .    ..  ,,,   ........ . . . .    .. . . . . .. . . . . .   .....  .... ....  -- - - - - -   W.. .. ..   ... .. ... .. ..
______    TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS  _ _ _ _                         _.__           4,053264         18332421         77.0857.98      111.024.466        9.27             9      .          7234.46          77.818.839        84i0
USES OF FUNDS                                  .____                               _                           _                                                          _              _                                                _
Long-Term Debt Retiremet                                                                         0                0                 0                0                 0      11,346.585        11,650.313       11,973,995        12,322,063
Interest o  Long-Term Debt                     _  _         =    =             _                 0                0 _ 1854,474              6,883,895        11,710,734       14,217,602        14,633.473       13,842,636        13,012,817
-Rehabilitation Projemt
RhDotestic S.Pplies                                                                           0                0        7,128,629       18,652,376        16,571.014       11,538,381                  0                0                 0
Foreign Suppliers                          _                                                 0                 0      37,089.479        59,897,375       30.760.668        23,380,577                 0                 0                0
Dividends                                                                                        0                0                 0                0       20,170,384       19.893.460        21,053,546       23,865.545        26,748,637
IncmlDec) in nun-Cash Working Captal          =___-                        _             1504,939)         725,040         1,427.034          315,1 74          304.664          324,366           229,711          343,697           350,523
_____ _  _ _ _ ,,,,,, , . . ,,,,,,,, = ,,, , ,,, , , = ~~~~....... ....    ,,, ,,,,, , -- -- -- -- --  -- -- --- -   W..   .. . . . ... . . . . .  .  ........... ..................  --- - -- -           .. .. .. .  ,,, --- -- --
TOTAL USES OF FUNDS       _504939)                                                   725040         47L499 616       85 758 820        79.517,464       80.700.970        47,567.043       50.025872         52 434040
Net Change in Cash Position- _    -                                  4,558,203        17,607,382       29,588.365        25,265,646       10,758,865 _ _10.252.740           24,787,703        27,792,967       31,004,039
Funding Surplus/Shortlall,                     ___________        3.092,061       16,471,861        28.71 8316       24,778,373        10.495,91 4        9,973,571       24,491.315 5     27.478,298        30,669,963
O(D
0
m m.



r ___________________________________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                  IBRD   25919R
-                                                                        5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F. b--    -6, d.-i--.                                                                                 U.S.A.
-d   ~          J                        0            500           TWO0 KSOMEThS
RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                               ,m   _                                   0    200 CW /U.S.A.
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
MAIN NATURAL GAS FIELDS
AND MAIN TRANSMISSION LINES
\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
NORWAY               \              -                                                                                                                               _             //
. DENMARK0   >        '   SWEDEN         >    i K.-                          ,                                                                                                                /
*   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~S-0H)OKMANOV <
GERMtANY--\,r
GL- -A_N-                         FINLAND   ,2  \                              .                                                                                                      /   --
-  t                        X                       x KRur~~~~~~~~~~~~OLZESERN- 
POLAND        f      E         1                    ; -X             __ _           ,          
I&,rv    \  B   IvOs  H E                                -                  jr~~~~~~~~~~~~YAURGi-                                          ,
O  ,   5)  /^    \                             ;            <                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EREGOVOYE
),5 vASTRA   )        \'                    )Cox)~~ 
TURKEY       3.O      C                                                                                                                                                                                                          JAPAN
y t . \^+e f MONGOLIA 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  PROJECr CITIES
N.6e                                      -z                                                                                       GAS PIPEUNES
IRAQ  ,r  Af-  +1\ 0 rh,mi S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W' _ GAS/CONOENSATE FIELDS
ISLAMIC REP OF IRAN           > % b    \                               5           ~i            CHINA-                                                         -INTERNATIC)NAL3CKtJNDARIES
S   r}           >X>v\   ~~~~~KYRGYZ        Y
g                      ~~~~~~~~DAULUTAE*D   \       -   _     *>     RIP._/oAR 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pt17












