                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26027

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (CPL-38760)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                                 FOR A

                                         Russia Energy Efficiency




                                              June 26, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective May 28, 2003 )

                                        Currency Unit = Ruble
                                               1 Ruble = US$ 0.033
                                                 US$ 1 = 30.72 Rubles

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                         January 1 -    December 1

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                               Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR                              Country Portfolio Performance Review
EEP                               Russia Energy Efficiency Project
FEPS                              Final Executive Project Summary
GEF                               Global Environment Facility
GHG                               Greenhouse Gas
GOR                               Government of Russia
ICB                               International Competitive Bidding
ICR                               Implementation Completion Report
JSC                               Joint Stock Company
MoF                               Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation
MoEDT                             Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of the Russian Federation
                                  Until June 2000 ­ Ministry of Economy of the Russian Federation1
MoEN                              Ministry of Energy of the Russian Federation Until May 2000 ­ Ministry
                                  of Fuel and Energy of the Russian Federation2
MOP                               Memorandum of the President
NCB                               National Competitive Bidding
OECD                              Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCD                               Project Concept Document
PIU                               Project Implementation Unit
PSR                               Project Status Report
PTL                               Program Team Leader
RESF                              Russian Energy Saving Foundation
SAR                               Staff Appraisal Report
SLA                               Sub-Loan Agreement
TA                                Technical Assistance
TM                                Task Manager
TTL                               Task Team Leader
_________________________________________________________
1
 Until June 2000 ­ Ministry of Economy of the Russian Federation.
2Until May 2000 ­ Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the Russian Federation


                                       Vice President:      Johannes Linn
                          Country Manager/Director:         Julian Schweitzer
                            Sector Manager/Director:        Peter Thomson
                   Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Vladislav Vucetic

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                  Russia Energy Efficiency


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            45
Annex 8. Project Completion Report Prepared by the Borrower                      46

Project ID: P008803                                                      Project Name: Russia Energy Efficiency
Team Leader: Vladislav Vucetic                                           TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Russia Energy Efficiency                                 L/C/TF Number: CPL-38760
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: District heating and energy efficiency services (48%); Power (27%);
                            Oil and gas (25%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Climate change (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    02/15/1994                                        Effective: 11/02/1996              12/26/1996
   Appraisal:    04/20/1994                                            MTR:
    Approval:    05/02/1995                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               01/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          RUSSIAN FEDERATION/Ministry of Finance/Ministry of Energy and JC
                                           Investenergoeffect
                      Other Partners:      Municipal Unitary Enterprise Teplovye Sety of Semenov (city of Semenov),
                                           Municipal Heating Enterprise Kaliningradteploset (city of Kaliningrad), Unitary
                                           Enterprise Ryazan Municipal Heating Networks (city of Ryazan), Government of
                                           Archangelsk Communal Services Department (city of Archangelsk).

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Johannes F. Linn                               Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               Julian F. Schweitzer                           Russell Cheetham
Sector Manager:                 Peter Thomson                                  Jonathan Brown (EC3IV)
Team Leader at ICR:             Vladislav Vucetic (since                       Gary Stuggins
                                10/28/2002)
ICR Primary Author:             Serguei Milenin; Pekka Kouri


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The principal objectives of the Russia Energy Efficiency Project (EEP) were: (i) to increase the efficiency
of energy use in the selected regions of Russia by supporting investments in more efficient equipment and
increasing the use of customer metering; and (ii) to support the government's gas sector reform program
through technical assistance. Those objectives would be realized both directly through project-financed
investments and indirectly through demonstration impacts.

Energy was estimated to account for 15 percent of Russia's GDP, 11 percent of the industrial production,
and 50 percent of its convertible foreign exchange earnings in the early 1990s. Rapid stabilization of the
overall economy was unlikely to occur unless macroeconomic reforms were paralleled by energy sector
reform and recovery. Within the energy sector, the gas sub-sector is critical. Gas is the primary source of
fuel in the domestic market, and in 1993 it accounted for approximately 20 percent of foreign exchange
earnings. Natural gas is also expected to become increasingly important, in both export and domestic
markets, because of its environmental attractiveness.

The Russian Federation is among the most inefficient users of energy; its energy intensity level is 3-14
times higher than that of the OECD countries. In 1992, Russia's energy use per unit of GDP was 14 times
that of Japan, 8 times that of the United Kingdom, and 5 times that of the USA. This inefficiency stems
from a combination of factors, including widespread use of outdated equipment, absence of metering, and
prices and regulations that discourage efficient use of energy. Energy inefficiency not only accelerates the
depletion of economic resources, but also represents the prime cause of pollution and degradation of the
natural environment. Thus, Russia is one of the largest sources of GHG emissions in the world. In 1990
GHG emissions in Russia amounted to 3,039 mln tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Carbon dioxide, released to
the atmosphere mostly as a result of the utilization of organic fuel, accounted for 78 per cent of the total
emissions.

In that context the project objectives are clear, realistic, and important for the Russian Federation. They
were in line with CAS objectives for the energy sector in Russia particularly with respect to increasing cost
recovery and efficiency of energy use, and strengthening national institutional and regulatory framework for
the sector (Report No 14473-RU of May 15, 1995; Report No 16549-RU of May 6, 1997; Update Note
R98-288 of December 1, 1998; Report No 19897-RU of December 1, 1999). The project also followed
CAS priorities for the environmental sector, with respect to providing support to the mitigation of GHG
emissions and the atmospheric pollution.

The investment component of the EEP was closely linked with the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Project
funded by the US$ 3.2 mln GEF grant (GEF Report No. 13076-RU of November 1995). A portion of the
Grant (the Utilization Component, US$ 0.8 mln) was used to identify and appraise for further financing
under the EEP investment projects, which would increase the efficiency of energy use and, thus, generate
considerable benefits in CO2 emissions reduction. This blended GEF operation was closed on June 30,
1999 (ICR Report No. 20901 of September 18, 2000).

The project was built on priorities for macroeconomic reform and sector development in the country.
Through a number of replicable model investment programs in the selected regions of Russia, it supported
critical technical improvements in heating networks, which were in urgent need of rehabilitation. The
project also demonstrated the potential for (i) improving cost-recovery through the increase in operational
efficiency of heating enterprises, and (ii) reducing the associated adverse environmental impacts, including



                                                      - 2 -

GHG and hazardous emissions. In that regard, project objectives remain relevant under the most recent
CAS (Report No 24127-RU of May 14, 2002), which specifies the improvement of business environment
and mitigation of environmental risks as areas for priority Bank intervention.

The project aimed at influencing sector policies and supporting gas sector reform. However, from the
outset it was recognized that such an effort would be difficult due to the complexity and instability of the
institutional framework, and the large number of organizations, authorities and regions involved. Given the
Borrower's very limited previous experience in administering similar operations, the project was demanding
in terms of building implementation capacity.

Since the project was initiated, there were no changes in the Borrower's circumstances and development
priorities, which would require revision of the project objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The principal objectives of the project are: (a) to increase the efficiency of energy use within Russia: and
(b) to support the government's reform program through technical assistance. Specifically, the studies will
focus on gas sector structure, regulation, and pricing.

The original project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project (original loan amount - US$ 70 mln) consisted of two components: (i) technical assistance to
support governmental reform program for the gas sector ­ Part A; and (ii) investments in energy efficiency
of the heating enterprises in selected regions ­ Part B. In particular, this includes (also see Section 3.4):

1. Energy Efficiency Investments (Investment Component, original budget ­ US$ 60 mln). The energy
efficiency component would finance investments in improving energy efficiency of district heating and
combined heat and power utilities in the selected regions. It would also provide support through technical
assistance in developing and implementing such investments. The recommended investments (US$ 58 mln
credit line) for increased efficiency include, inter alia: (i) burner replacement and associated controls; (ii)
boiler replacement at municipal district heating companies; (iii) portable diagnostic instrumentation for
power plants and municipal boilers to facilitate better adjustment of the equipment; (iv) automated control
systems at boiler plants; and (v) automatic temperature control equipment and heat energy meters at
heating substations.    Technical assistance (US$ 2 mln) was envisaged to (i) help potential executing
agencies in identifying sub-projects and in presenting their technical, economic and financial viability, (ii)
appraise energy efficiency investments by municipal utilities (district heating) and power plants, and advise
the Ministry of Finance on the feasibility of financing these sub-projects, and (iii) provide assistance and
disseminate information to industrial enterprises to evaluate and assess commercial funding for energy
efficiency measures. Local heating and power utilities located in the cities of (1) Saratov, (2) Voronezh,
(3) Cherepovets, (4) Ryazan, (5) St. Petersburg, (6) Stavropol, (7) Rostov-on-Don, (8) Samara, (9)
Nizhny-Novgorod, and (10) Vladimir were the originally proposed beneficiaries of the component.

2. Gas Sector Studies - TA to the Ministry of Energy to support reform program in the gas sector (original
budget - US$10 mln). The project envisaged support for studies in the following areas: (i) upgrading the
current gas industry standards and construction procedures; (ii) preparing a third party access decree for
the gas industry; (iii) preparing specific tariff recommendations for gas transport; (iv) preparing
recommendations for an energy pricing strategy; (v) preparing recommendations on the privatization of the
gas sector; (vi) consulting assistance for a gas law and regulatory requirements; (vii) preparing an overall



                                                      - 3 -

plan for the gas distribution system rehabilitation; (viii) coordination of the study program.         The
beneficiary for that work was the Ministry of Energy of the Russian Federation

As indicated above, the EEP was complemented with the GEF-financed Russia Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Project (Grant amount ­ US$3.2 mln), referred to in the SAR as a GEF-financed project component.
Grant program was to include (i) assessment of the release of methane, and the development of mitigation
programs for natural gas production, transmission, and distribution sub-sectors (PTD component), and (ii)
assessment of GHG emissions from gas utilization and development of mitigation programs for the
utilization sub-sector (Utilization component). Program for the utilization sub-sector (Grant budget ­
US$803,700) was to support preparation of financially viable investment projects, sound in terms of CO2
emissions reduction to be funded under the EEP. The Utilization component of the GEF grant was
implemented successfully, while the PTD component was not implemented.

Assessment of the design:

Project components were well designed technically and were reasonably related to the project objectives.
The national sector ministry - Ministry of Energy (MoEN) - had the overall responsibility for the project
implementation. Energy efficiency investments were to be managed by MoEN through its affiliate entity -
the Russian Energy Saving Foundation (RESF).             In accordance with the Borrower's budgetary
regulations, IBRD loan proceeds were to be on-lent to beneficiaries (sub-borrowers) by the Ministry of
Finance (MoF) under sub-loan agreements (SLAs). RESF would (i) undertake review of initial investment
proposals from the regions; (ii) work with potential sub-borrowers to strengthen their proposals; (iii)
provide centralized support with technical, financial and procurement expertise to the implementation of
individual investment programs (sub-projects). A number of sub-project proposals were reviewed at
appraisal, and an initial list of potential sub-borrowers was made part of the legal document. It was
expected that the project would build capacity within the RESF so that this entity could continue on behalf
of the government identification, appraisal and follow-up on the energy efficiency investment programs in
various regions of Russia beyond the project life.      Since the project implementation unit would also
manage the Utilization component of the associated GEF grant, its core expertise would initially be funded
with GEF resources. A margin of 0.5% on the SLAs amount disbursed and outstanding would be paid to
the RESF to cover the related operating costs in the longer term. Once the number of the signed SLAs
exceeds ten, a commercial bank would be engaged to administer the repayment to MoF.

Gas Sector Studies were to be administered directly by MoEN with the technical and procurement support
provided by a coordinating consultant. When this Loan was appraised, the Bank expected that it would
provide considerable leverage to influence the reform agenda in the gas sector. However, this did not work
out to be the case because there was considerable opposition from within the Government and outside to
making major changes (also see Section 8).

The Project Interagency Supervisory Board, consisting of the authorized representatives and experts from
MoEN, MoF, Ministry of Economy, and the other federal agencies concerned was established to provide
governmental oversight and ensure interministerial coordination for both project components.

3.4 Revised Components:
Component; Cost; Rating

(1) Technical Assistance - Part A;          $9,395,000.00;                 U
(2) Goods - Part B;                         $47,500,000.00;                U
(3) Technical Assistance - Part B;          $2,300,000.00;                 S
(4) Unallocated;                            $10,200,000.00;                NR
(5) Incremental Operating Costs - Part B; $605,000.00;                     S




                                                    - 4 -

The following substantial modifications have been made to the project since appraisal:

(i) The Project SAR (Report No. 13046-RU of April 11, 1995) makes reference to a Gas Distribution
Rehabilitation Component to be implemented in the city of Volgograd. Although this component (US$36.5
mln) was identified and appraised, it was later excluded from the project. MOP Regarding Modifications
to the Project was communicated to the Board in September 1996.

(ii) On July 9, 1997 cities of Archangelsk and Kaliningrad have replaced Voronezh and Stavropol on the
list of sub-borrowers. As of March 3, 2000 the original list of eligible sub-borrowers was modified to
include potential beneficiaries from a wider range of regions. The legal definition of eligible sub-borrower
was also extended to include regional and city administrations.

The loan closing date was extended from June 30, 2001 until September 30, 2002 (on June 21, 2001) and
then until January 31, 2003 (on September 26, 2002) to allow completion of programs funded by the
Investment Component.
In April 2001 GOR requested the Bank to utilize available funds of the Investment Component to support
rehabilitation of the heating sector - linked to reforms and financial improvements - in the Far East regions
of Russia. However, in June 2001 the government indicated that it would reconsider the format and
specific geographical area for Bank's assistance.       The decision on the part of GOR was delayed and,
eventually, the Far East energy efficiency program did not proceed.

In June 2001 GOR also requested the Bank to restructure the Gas Sector Studies and transfer the
responsibilities of Implementing Agency for this component from MoEN to the Ministry of Economic
Development and Trade.        Although the Bank concurred with that request, the restructuring did not
materialize as GOR later decided to cancel the uncommitted funds.

Changes in the scope of project components are summarized in Section 10.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was consistent with objectives of the CAS and governmental development priorities and
complied with the applicable safeguard policies of the Bank. The technical design corresponded to the
project objectives. Assumptions about the demand for the project output and the international commodity
prices were reasonable. The SAR documented the project and its background in sufficient detail.           Key
project stakeholders participated in appraisal and loan negotiations.          The proposed implementation
arrangements were adequate and in direct control of the government; they correctly followed Borrower's
governance structures and accounted for institutional constraints. Needs in the implementation capacity
building were assessed and adequately addressed in the project design.

The project preparation was challenging for both the Bank and the Borrower. Bank-financed projects were
new to Russia, and the Borrower's learning of the relevant operational requirements, procedures, and
practices had to be an integral part of the dialogue. There was a need for the government to develop a
number of new nation-wide policies, in particular ­ those related to the on-lending of IBRD loan proceeds
to the regional sub-borrowers. During 1992 - 1998 GOR and MoEN also suffered from frequent changes
in key officials responsible for the project. For all these reasons, the project start up was slow and required
extensive input from the Bank (see Annex 4).

For the purpose of the ICR, the project is rated satisfactory for quality at entry. The project was not
subject to a quality-at-entry review by QAG.




                                                      - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project objective with respect to increasing the efficiency of energy use in the participating regions has
been largely achieved, and the demonstration impact of the project in that regard has been significant.
Sub-projects, funded by the credit line, were completed successfully with satisfactory outcomes. These
investments have significantly improved quality and decreased costs of energy supply in the subject
regions. In some cases, the outcomes have exceeded initial expectations. Implemented programs have also
generated substantial benefits in reduction of CO2 and hazardous emissions from heat production.
Selected project activities are now being successfully replicated in non-project regions funded from the
commercial sources. Thus, in the participating regions, the Energy Efficiency Investment component has
achieved most of its major objectives and is expected to achieve satisfactory development results. The
outcome of the completed investments is satisfactory, fully relevant to Russia's current policy objectives
for the sector, and consistent with the objectives of the CAS for Russia. Actual benefits to date (see
Section 4.2 and 10.2) are expected to exceed US$ 17.1 mln equivalent in economic savings, US$ 11.1 mln
equivalent in financial savings, fuel savings of 109.1 thousand conventional tonne, and the CO2 emissions
reduction of 193.1 thousand tonne. Annual fuel savings from sub-projects are estimated at 63.22
thousand conventional tonne (see Annex 1). Completed sub-projects have generated EIRR from 31.3%
to 289%; and FIRR from 18.7% to 82.9% (see Section 4.3, 4.4, and Annex 3). The achieved results on the
ground and direct benefits for the local population in the project regions are significant (see Section 4.2).

However, as only US$ 16.6 mln (i.e. 29 %) of the US$ 58 mln energy efficiency credit line was disbursed,
and only 4 out of the planned 10 regional sub-projects were implemented, the actual scope of the completed
investments is significantly smaller than originally expected. The second project objective - to support the
gas sector reform through financing of critical studies ­ also has not been achieved in full, as the agreed
program of Gas Sector Studies (see Section 3.3) was implemented only partially. For these reasons the
development impact of the project was limited compared to what could have been achieved, and the project
overall outcome is rated unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Valuable physical outputs were delivered under both project components.               However, none of the
components have completed the original program in full.

Energy Efficiency Investments (US$60 mln planned, US$ 18.5 mln actual).

The component has financed: (i) investment sub-projects in the cities of Ryazan, Semenov (Nizhny
Novgorod region), Kaliningrad and Archangelsk (US$ 16.6 mln in all), (ii) TA for the development and
implementation of these sub-projects, including centralized technical, financial, and procurement support
(US$ 1.36 mln), and (iii) incremental operating costs of the central PIU for the component (US$ 0.53 mln).
Sub-loans have financed only the cost of equipment (boilers, pipes, meters, controls, etc.), whereas
installation and commissioning were funded by beneficiaries as part of their co-financing.        Identification
and preparation of sub-projects was co-financed by the associated GEF Grant (See Section 3.3 above).

Following the dramatic devaluation of the Russian ruble in 1998, local costs of all sub-projects increased
more than three times and exceeded the amounts originally reserved or planned in city budgets.
Particularly, the devaluation increased the sub-loan servicing and repayment obligations, and the local
co-financing requirements when equipment was to be imported (to pay custom duties and etc.). Mainly for
that reason, sub-projects developed for a number of regions and available for financing did not proceed.
This includes programs in Saratov, Tobolsk, Samara, and the Rostov region for the overall amount of US$
24.24 mln in foreign cost, which were originally accepted for funding under the EEP.                  Cities of



                                                     - 6 -

Cherepovets, St.Petersburg, and Vladimir have also withdrawn from the Project.

All procurement envisaged under sub-projects for Ryazan, Semenov, Kaliningrad and Archangelsk was
completed in full.    Economic and financial benefits for heating enterprises and cities are significant (see
also Section 4.3 and 4.4). Investments have also generated significant environmental benefits, resulting
from: (i) switch where possible from coal and heavy oil to gas-fired boilers, (ii) increased overall efficiency
and reduced heat losses, and (iii) tightened hazardous emissions control. For the entire program, the
2001-2002 heating season demonstrated economic cost savings of US$ 6.4 mln equivalent and financial
cost savings of US$ 3.4 mln equivalent, fuel savings of 53.1 thousand conventional tonne, and CO2
emissions reduction of 87.5 thousand tonne. Economic cost savings of the 2002-2003 season are expected
to exceed US$ 10.7 mln equivalent and financial savings - US$ 7.7 mln equivalent, fuel savings - 56.0
thousand conventional tonne, and CO2 emissions reduction ­ 105.6 thousand tonne.

Implemented sub-projects have achieved tangible results on the ground and directly improved living
conditions of more that 160 thousand people. In particular, for 76 thousand people in Archangelsk and 55
thousand in Semenov, their winter apartment temperatures increased from 12-16 to stable 20 degrees
Celsius. In Semenov, in many buildings, hot water is now available in summer and not only during the
heating season, as before.      The quality of domestic hot water for more than 35 thousand people in
Kaliningrad has improved dramatically. Following the installation of heat meters, the Ryazan municipality
discovered that the actual heat consumption was 30% lower than what was regularly invoiced by the heat
supplier (RAO UES), which resulted in savings and allowed the city to finance other priority programs.

Although four sub-projects were completed successfully, the implementation was demanding on the
executing agencies and local project teams, which were at some points unable to effectively manage
implementation and on a timely manner undertake installation and commissioning of the equipment. Thus,
in Archangelsk, the lack of local technical and administrative capacity and leadership caused significant
implementation delays. Providing of the local co-financing sometimes was an issue ­ in Archangelsk the
installation of boiler houses was delayed for about a year as no funds were available in time to pay custom
duties for the procured equipment.

Project cities also had to balance and manage their significantly increased multiple debt obligations to the
federal government (MoF) and the other financiers. Ryazan, Kaliningrad and Archangelsk met their EEP
sub-loan servicing and repayment obligations successfully, but Semenov failed to repay in time and had to
enter in debt restructuring negotiations with MoF. The SLA with Semenov was suspended, and there were
delays in payments to a contractor.

Details of individual sub-projects are summarized in Section 10. The completed programs have achieved
important results, however, only US$ 16.6 mln (i.e. 29 %) of the US$ 58 mln energy efficiency credit line
was disbursed, and only 4 out of the planned 10 regional sub-projects were implemented. The scope of
investments and their resulting nation-wide impact is, therefore, much smaller than was originally expected.
For that reason, the component is rated modest for the achievement of physical and financial objectives and
its institutional development impact, although financial and economic returns for the implemented
investments are quite good (see Sections 4.3 and 4.4).

Gas Sector Studies (US$10 mln planned, US$ 4.0 mln actual).
The component was expected to finance 10 contracts but in the end, it only financed studies on (i) gas
pricing for the distribution sub-sector (US$ 1.2 mln); (ii) status of the gas distribution sub-sector, including
its interrelation with the gas production and transmission sub-sectors (US$ 1.1 mln); (iii) re-organization
and strengthening of enterprises in the gas distribution sub-sector (US$ 0.8 mln); and (iv) coordination of


                                                    - 7 -

studies and advisory support to MoEN (US$ 0.9 mln).

Studies contributed to the background analysis, underlying development of the governmental policy and
regulatory framework for the gas sector. In particular, study outcomes were used by the government for the
development of the (i) Methodological Guidelines on the Calculation of the Gas Transport Tariffs for the
Gas Distribution Companies of Russia; (ii) Guidelines on the State Regulation of Prices and Tariffs on Gas
Supply; (iii) Rules on Gas Supply to Consumers in Russia; and some other important policy documents,
such as the gas industry section of the Governmental Action Plan for 2000-2001, the Concept for the Gas
Market in Russia, and etc. Study recommendations with respect to further development of the legal
framework for the sub-sector, institutional strengthening of the gas distribution companies, and
establishment of the required regulatory controls are currently being used by the government in regular
operational work.

Although the program has produced valuable results, a number of pre-identified at appraisal critical sector
reform issues (see Section 3.3 above) have not been addressed, largely due to significant implementation
and procurement delays (also see Section 7.6). Therefore, the development impact is much lower than
what was originally planned. The component is rated modest for the achievement of physical objectives
and its impact on sector policies and institutional development.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic analysis for the investment component of the project (Energy Efficiency Investments) was
conducted at appraisal and reflected in the SAR. The analysis reviewed costs and benefits of potential
investment programs in four cities (Ryazan, Saratov, Volgograd, and Voronezh) and demonstrated that the
package of sub-projects ultimately implemented could provide an average economic rate of return greater
than 25 %.    Rate of return for the evaluated replicable specific investments in municipal district heating
varied from 14% (small boiler replacement in Voronezh) to 276% (installation of the automatic
temperature controls in Ryazan). From that evaluation, an EIRR of 20% was established as a minimal
requirement for individual sub-projects. The Loan Agreement indicates the EIRR of 20 % as one of the
sub-project eligibility requirements.

Average economic rates of return for the implemented sub-projects, expected at the time of sub-projects
preparation, and re-estimated at completion, are provided in a table below.         EIRRs for the specific
investments under sub-projects are provided in Section 10.

Economic values

  Sub-Project              Expected at preparation                 Re-estimated at completion
                    EIRR      NPV (12%)            Cost       EIRR      NPV (12%)          Cost
 Semenov            28.3%      7,059,543       (15,466,000)    34.7%     10,716,069    (9,548,000)
 Ryazan             195%       4,457,418       (1,087,800)     289%      6,012,352      (656,967)
 Archangelsk        72.4%     13,812,730       (9,792,000)     31.3%     6,224,017     (7,438,447)
 Kaliningrad        44.0%      6,133,793       (6,788,000)     65.8%     6,251,178     (6,033,961)

The increase in re-estimated benefits for sub-projects in Semenov and Ryazan resulted from the lower
actual investment cost and the lower gas prices.      In Archangelsk the sub-project was restructured and a
number of originally expected high-return investment items were not financed. For Kaliningrad, the
original feasibility study provided conservative estimation of equipment efficiency and resulting benefits,
which in practice turned to be higher.



                                                      - 8 -

The actual cost figures, projection of benefits, the underlying assumptions about costs and benefits, and the
other key information supporting the analysis and economic IRR/NPV calculations is provided in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Based on the analysis made at appraisal, an FIRR of 10% was established as a minimal requirement for
individual sub-projects. The Loan Agreement indicates the FIRR of 10 % among the other sub-project
eligibility requirements.

Average financial rates of return for the implemented sub-projects, expected at the time of sub-projects
preparation, and re-estimated at completion, are provided in a table below.          FIRRs for the specific
investments under sub-projects are provided in Section 10.

Financial values

  Sub-Project              Expected at preparation                  Re-estimated at completion
                    FIRR          NPV               Cost       FIRR          NPV       Cost
                                 (12%)                                     (10.5%)
Semenov             19.6%      5,470,000       (15,466,000)     19.5%     6,000,830      (9,548,000)
Ryazan             103.4%      3,621,858        (1,087,800)     82.9%     2,510,940       (656,967)
Archangelsk         61.6%      14,475,000       (9,792,000)     22.1%     4,481,572      (7,438,447)
Kaliningrad         38.9%      5,595,530        (6,788,000)     18.7%     1,838,253      (6,033,961)

Key information supporting the analysis and financial IRR/NPV calculations is provided in Annex 3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project was expected to support the following institutional improvements: (i) building capacity of
authorities and heating enterprises in the participating regions to develop and implement sound energy
efficiency programs; (ii) strengthening ability of the federal government to design, appraise, and supervise
investment programs in the heating sub-sector; and (iii) strengthening the federal legal and regulatory
framework for the gas sector.

The institutional development impact of the project for the local administrations and heating enterprises of
the participating regions was substantial.      However, as only 4 regional investment programs were
completed and as the Gas Sector Studies were not implemented in full, the overall nation-wide impact was
limited and lower than expected. Therefore, for the purpose of the ICR (Section 2), the institutional
development impact of the project is rated as modest.

The valuable results of the completed program include, in particular, the following:

l The project provided important technical and methodological support to regional and local authorities
    in developing commercially viable and environmentally sound investment programs for the heating
    sector. Based on assessments made as part of the project, local heating companies were active in
    building up their internal decisional, analytical and technical capacity, as well as in acquiring at their
    own cost monitoring, metering, and control equipment, which would lead to improved operation of
    facilities and increased quality of heating services.

l Dissemination of experience with preparation and implementation of sound investment programs



                                                      - 9 -

    generated significant positive response from the regional authorities and managers of the heating
    enterprises. The project had a strong demonstration impact and triggered energy efficiency programs
    in the non-project areas, which are funded from the commercial and governmental sources.             In
    particular, 9 energy efficiency programs, with the total costs exceeding the equivalent of US$ 34.7 mln,
    were launched in the Nizhny Novgorod region to replicate activities of the Semenov sub-project. These
    programs have individual investment costs ranging from the equivalent of US$ 0.1 mln to US$ 25.0
    mln and are financed mostly by the (i) local, municipal, regional, and federal budgetary funds; (ii)
    commercial investors; and (iii) loans from the Sberbank (Savings Bank of Russia). The blended
    GEF-financed Russia GHG Reduction Project (see Section 3.1 and 3.3 above) supported publicizing
    the effects of the project ­ it funded two seminars on methods and equipment to determine GHG
    emissions from thermal processes (in Rostov-on-Don and Kaliningrad). The PIU Investenergoeffect
    also presented the experience gained during the preparation and implementation of the energy efficiency
    programs under the EEP at five major thematic conferences in Russia.

l The project has strengthened the capacity of the federal government to support targeted and
    commercially viable investments in district heating across the country. The JSC Investenergoeffect,
    established as a subsidiary entity of the Russian Energy Saving Foundation under MoEN, which served
    as a central implementation unit for the project, has gained sufficient experience and competences in
    projects design, competitive procurement and implementation supervision to continue on behalf of
    MoEN appraisal and supervision of energy efficiency programs beyond the project life. During the
    EEP implementation, the input of Investenergoeffect to the project was essential. However, currently
    its impact is limited as it is not engaged in implementation of any follow-up program.

l Through the TA component for the gas sector, the project contributed to a legislative and regulatory
    capacity-building effort of the government. However, the institutional development impact of that
    component is viewed as still relatively modest compared to what was expected under the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

None

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Governance. Project implementation required a high degree of coordination between MoEN and the other
federal agencies concerned. Although formally established, this coordination was not effective enough to
ensure timely consideration of the critical implementation issues under the Investment Component of the
project.   Continuous delays on the part of MoEN in addressing key project matters (particularly ­ in
approval of the PIU budgets) have caused significant operational problems, including blocked funding for
the central PIU and the virtually discontinued implementation of sub-projects in the regions.           This
eventually led to a suspension of disbursements under that component from August 18, 2000 till December
27, 2000 (see Section 7.2).

Macroeconomic conditions. The financial crisis of August 1998 has negatively affected the implementation
of the Investment Component, resulting in inability of several pre-identified cities to borrow under the
credit line (see Section 4.2 above) and the shortage of local counterpart financing, which delayed
implementation in Archangelsk and Kaliningrad.




                                                     - 10 -

Budgetary co-financing. Co-financing from the federal budget for the implementation of the TA under both
project components was provided in full and on a timely manner.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

JSC Investenergoeffect, which was established by MoEN as an implementing agency (PIU) for the
Investment Component, operated effectively. Internal arrangements for project management, monitoring
and evaluation were adequate. Investenergoeffect has demonstrated strong commitment to the project:
despite the unavailability of funds to cover operating expenses throughout the year 2000 (see Section 5.2
and 7.5), the PIU has maintained the required project management controls, retained qualified staff, and
ensured continuity of implementation and supervision services.

Gas Sector Studies were implemented by MoEN directly through its relevant departments. However,
MoEN failed to establish single point responsibility for component deliverables and ensure adequate
coordination between various internal authorities, which resulted in delays with procurement and
inefficiencies in managing consulting contracts.

5.4 Costs and financing:


In the SAR total costs of the project activities (as restructured in 1996 before loan signing (see Section
3.4(i))were estimated at the equivalent of US$ 76.3 mln., of which US$ 70.0 mln were to be financed by
the IBRD loan. Counterpart co-financing to cover costs of engineering, procurement, and installation of
equipment under investment sub-projects was estimated at US$ 6.3 mln. Original loan allocations were as
follows: (i) US$ 47.5 mln for the procurement of goods, US$ 2 mln for the technical assistance, and US$
10.5 mln of unallocated under the Investment Component; and (ii) US$ 10 mln for the TA under Gas
Sector Studies. Revisions made to the project scope during implementation are summarized in Section 10.

Disbursements amounted to US$ 22.5 mln, or 32.2 % of the loan. The incomplete use of funds mostly
resulted from (i) the reduced scope of the Investment Component due to the decreased cities' borrowing
capacity following the 1998 financial crisis, which led to cancellation of potential sub-projects (see Section
4.2 above); and (ii) implementation and procurement delays with Gas Sector Studies. Also, disbursements
under the Investment Component of the project were suspended from August till December 2000 in view of
significant operational problems (see Section 7.5).

Estimated project costs and actual disbursements are presented in Annex 1.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project is likely to be sustainable with respect to its objective to increase efficiency of energy use in the
participating regions of Russia. Key considerations affecting the rating are as follows:

l Since the project's initiation, regional counterparts have maintained a strong commitment to the project
    objective (recent actions of the Borrower at the policy level in support of energy efficiency are
    summarized in Section 10.1). Given the commitment on the part of authorities, efforts are expected to
    be made by the Borrower to maintain and strengthen the development capacity established under the
    project (also see Section 4.5 above).




                                                     - 11 -

l Investments in the regions have shown high economic, financial, and environmental viability.          The
    project had a strong demonstration impact and triggered energy efficiency programs for some
    non-project areas and facilities, which are funded from the commercial and governmental sources. For
    example, as indicated in Section 4.5, in the Nizhny Novgorod region 9 programs replicating the
    relevant project's technical solutions have been launched mostly with local and budgetary financing.

l The Russia Municipal Heating Project, funded by the IBRD loan (US$ 85 mln), has been approved. It
    will address issues of energy efficiency in the context of the overall reform of the housing and
    communal services, and will allow the government, participating municipalities, and heating companies
    to deploy viable investment programs in 8 - 9 regions of Russia.

Therefore, activities initiated under the EEP are likely to be sustained and expanded in the long term.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Investments under the project have supported core functions of beneficiaries and addressed their critical
priorities. The appropriate technical, financial and institutional arrangements for the regular operation are
in place.

The output of energy efficiency programs will be monitored on a regular basis and a monitoring plan is
now under finalization with MoEN.          Transfer of the required knowledge and skills from the PIU
Investenergoeffect to MoEN for that purpose has been successful.         Although MoEN is yet to define the
exact role of the Investenergoeffect in further energy efficiency programs, arrangements are under
consideration to maximize benefits from its available capacity and skills for the governmental follow-up
and the appropriate replication and dissemination of the project experience.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank performance in lending is rated overall satisfactory. The Bank provided adequate support to
GOR and MoEN in identifying key project activities.            It has also assisted the Borrower in project
preparation and ensured a high degree of participation on the part of GOR and MoEN in the appraisal.
Objectives of the project were fully consistent with the governmental development priorities and the Bank's
assistance strategy for the country. The project complied with Bank's applicable safeguard policies. The
project's technical design was simple and effective. Components of the project were clearly defined in the
legal document and the respective technical requirements were laid out in appropriate detail. Project's
institutional design and the proposed implementation arrangements, including those for procurement and
financial management, were adequate.

However, as indicated in Section 3.5, there was a need for the Borrower to learn and adapt to Bank policies
and requirements, and develop its own new operational procedures (covering the on-lending to the regions,
project governance, etc.). For that reason the project start-up was slow and required extensive support
from the Bank. Thus, there were delays in loan effectiveness, in establishment and staffing of the project
implementation unit (PIU). Procurement under Gas Sector Studies was also delayed. The Bank, therefore,
maintained Unsatisfactory IP rating until early 1998, when the PIU became fully functional. DO rating
remained unsatisfactory until early 1999, when Gas Sector Studies started to make progress.

7.2 Supervision:



                                                     - 12 -

The project implementation progress was reviewed and reported, and the project performance ratings
appropriately reflected the performance during the particular rating periods. Implementation problems
were identified in a timely manner and were addressed adequately and proactively. Advice to the Borrower
and the follow-up on agreed actions was adequate. The project performance was also reviewed as part of
the CPPRs beginning in 1997.

The Bank maintained Unsatisfactory both DO and IP ratings for the project from July 1996 till July 1997
to account for significant delays in loan effectiveness and establishing the implementation capacity. DO
rating remained Unsatisfactory until March 1999, as there were delays in launching the Gas Sector Studies.
The Bank also maintained an Unsatisfactory implementation performance rating for the project throughout
the year 2000, when the MoEN abolished the PIU for the Investment Component, and later on, when there
were delays with the implementation in the regions. In all cases remedial actions were recommended to the
Borrower to resolve the project implementation issues. In 2000 the Bank had to suspend disbursements to
enforce legal covenants and ensure re-establishment of the central implementation capacity for the
Investment Component (see Section 7.5 below). Extensive support was provided to MoEN in restoring the
required capacity within the PIU Investenergoeffect, and later, in the attempt to bring implementation in the
regions back on track.

The quality and quantity of Bank staff and consultants, their time in the field, the timing of supervision
missions, and the support of the Bank management to staff at critical points were adequate. The Bank
performance in supervision was satisfactory.

In the meantime, the Bank probably should have been more active in pushing the Borrower to cancel the
uncommitted funds of the investment credit line when it became apparent that no more sub-projects from
the agreed list would proceed. That cancellation took place, but at a later stage as the government first
tried to identify new sub-projects, and then was considering a near-emergency program to rehabilitate
heating sector in the Far East of Russia (see also para 7 in Section 8 below).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

At all stages of the project cycle the support to GOR and MoEN from the Bank was adequate. Bank's
effort both at lending and supervision was intensive (see Annex 4) and the Bank has exercised maximum
flexibility to address changing circumstances and priorities of the Borrower. Staffing of the Bank's team
was adequate and the required skill mix and continuity was maintained. The country office provided full
support to the task team at all stages. During supervision, the Bank's response to implementation risks was
adequate. The project complied with the applicable Bank's policies and procedures. Overall, the Bank
performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

At the preparation stage, GOR and MoEN demonstrated a strong commitment to the project objectives.
The provided technical, institutional, administrative and financial support was adequate.          Regional
stakeholders were participating in the project design and involved in loan negotiations. The performance of
the Borrower during project preparation is rated satisfactory.

However, following the Board presentation, the project had to be restructured (see Section 3.4). As the
EEP was one of the early IBRD investment projects in Russia, both preparation and initial implementation



                                                    - 13 -

involved a lot of learning on the part of the Borrower. It took time for the Borrower to make the loan
effective, establish the implementation capacity (PIU for the Investment Component and arrangements
within MoEN to implement the Gas Sector Studies), and finalize on-lending arrangements for the
sub-projects. This resulted in a slow start-up of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
During implementation, commitment to the project objectives on the part of the government at the policy
level was reiterated by MoEN officials. However, at the project level, the implementation was constrained
by poor stakeholder coordination and administrative inefficiency (also see Section 5.2 above). The Project
Interagency Supervisory Board under MoEN, although formally established, operational, and in direct
control of the government, often failed to address critical implementation issues on a timely manner (the
Project Interagency Supervisory Board was originally comprised of the authorized representatives of
MoEN, and RESF (general); MoEN, Ministry of Economy, Federal Energy Commission, and MoF (for
Gas Sector Studies); MoEN, State Committee on Science and Technology, MoF, and Ministry of Economy
(for the Investment Component)).

For example, in 2000 the lack of coordination and inaction on the part of the government caused significant
operational problems with the Investment Component of the project, which required the Bank to exercise
remedies and suspend disbursements under the loan. In particular, due to delays in review and approval of
the PIU agency agreement and operational budget, for 8 months from March till October 2000 no funds
were made available to the PIU to cover staff salaries, office supplies, communications, office rent, and
other operating costs. PIU staff contracts, which expired in September 1999, were not officially extended,
and, as a result, the PIU staff were not paid, even though they continued to implement the project. The
accumulated backlog of unpaid invoices from suppliers amounted to US$3 million. There was also a great
concern regarding the adequacy of internal controls and adherence to the relevant project implementation
policies and procedures. On June 21, 2000, in view of implementation problems, the Ministry of Finance
revoked existing authorizations to sign withdrawal applications under the Investment Component of the
loan.   Suspension of disbursements was in effect from August 18 till December 27, 2000, and the
implementation of the Investment Component resumed only in 2001.                The irregularities of 2000
undermined credibility of the program in the regions, demotivated regional participants and contractors, and
eventually resulted in significant implementation delays.

Overall, the implementation performance of the government for the project is rated unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
As outlined in Section 5.3, JSC Investenergoeffect was authorized by MoEN to implement the Investment
Component of the project, whereas the Gas Sector Studies were administered by MoEN directly.          Thus,
both entities should be considered implementing agencies for ICR purposes.

PIU Investenergoeffect - a subsidiary of the RESF - was established by MoEN in 1997 to administer the
investment program under the EEP and manage the Utilization Component of the associated GEF-financed
Russia Greenhouse Gas Reduction Project (see Section 3.1). Investenergoeffect operated effectively and
delivered results in accordance with agreed implementation plans. The internal technical, financial, and
administrative capacity was adequate. Throughout year 2000, despite the unavailability of financing to
cover operating costs, the PIU continued to provide critical implementation support to sub-borrowers and
maintained required project management controls. The performance of the JSC Investenergoeffect was
satisfactory.

As regards the Gas Sector Studies, the capacity to administer the program in the relevant MoEN technical



                                                    - 14 -

department was adequate and the required external procurement support was in place. However, MoEN
failed to impose sector reform, as there was apparently considerable opposition from within the government
and outside to making major changes in the gas industry. Mostly for that reason only 4 of the expected 10
studies were launched. MoEN also failed to ensure single point responsibility for component deliverables
and the required coordination between various concerned departments within the ministry was not
established, resulting in delays with procurement and inefficiencies in managing consulting contracts.
Eventually, the planned program of studies was not implemented in full. The performance of MoEN as an
implementing agency is rated unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower failed to establish and maintain implementation capacity to fully achieve project objectives
and maximize benefits from the operation. Despite the recognized need in the energy efficiency investments
in many regions (also confirmed during preparation of the Municipal Heating Project), 67.8 % of resources
available under the loan eventually had to be cancelled. Repeated changes in Government and MoEN
officials may have contributed to reduced commitment and resolve to solve the issues. The Borrower's
performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Examining the reasons why the project implementation was only partially successful leads to the following
lessons learned.

1.       The project demonstrated commitment on the part of the regional authorities to implement
operational policies and practices supporting more efficient use of energy. Energy efficiency measures are
viewed as an important element of development programs by local heating enterprises, which are willing to
invest their own limited resources in advanced technologies and equipment.

2.       Heating networks in most of the cities reviewed under the project were worn out and needed urgent
rehabilitation. Due to the demonstrated high viability of investments in improved energy efficiency, the
local commercial sector in the project regions now becomes increasingly active in supporting such
initiatives. These investments also demonstrate significant development impact.

3.       Strong local leadership and expertise is essential for the regional development programs to succeed.
Timely availability of counterpart funding is also key for ensuring the quality of project deliverables.
Establishment of the local implementation capacity and arrangements for the sufficient and timely local
co-financing of project activities should be assigned the highest priority at the preparation stage since it
directly affects procurement and administrative efficiency during implementation.

4.       The ability of the government to implement the project was constrained by lack of coordination
between MoEN and the other stakeholders and, for the Gas Sector Studies, by administrative inefficiency at
the project level. The Borrower should consider it a priority during implementation to establish and
maintain arrangements to ensure the required interagency coordination and single-point responsibility for
project deliverables.

5.       The PIU for the Investment Component of the project ­ JSC Investenergoeffect ­ was operationally
autonomous from MoEN. Although arrangements for ensuring governmental oversight and the reporting of
the PIU to the government were in place, it is now apparent that the implementation could have been more



                                                    - 15 -

efficient if the PIU would operate in a closer link to MoEN. This would strengthen PIU capacity to work
with the regional authorities and executing agencies, and would help MoEN to address critical
implementation matters timely and proactively.

6.         When appraising regional sub-projects, special attention should be paid to assessing the
creditworthiness of sub-borrowers. As indicated in Section 4.2, one of the participating cities (Semenov)
failed to timely start repaying its SLA to MoF. The SLA was suspended, and there were delays in
payments to a contractor. To prevent such cases in the future, the Bank and MoF have agreed that for the
new operations, including the follow-up Russia Municipal Heating Project, all regional sub-borrowers
(cities) are subject to detailed creditworthiness analysis.

7.       Including a TA component on an investment loan to reform the sector has not yielded satisfactory
reform results on this or several other loans, including the two large loans to rehabilitate the oil sector in
Russia (Oil Rehabilitation Project ­ ICR Report No 20582 of June 30, 2000 and Second Oil Rehabilitation
Project ­ ICR Report No 20671 of June 30, 2000). It has been found that Investment Loans do not provide
sufficient leverage to overcome the resistance to making significant changes in the sector and adjustment
loans are a much better lending product for that purpose.

8.       There is no established practice for the Borrower's implementation response to a massive
devaluation of the national currency, which significantly reduces its ability to commit funds and disburse
under the loan (like in the case of the ruble devaluation in August 1998). In retrospect, it seems that the
implementation of the Investment Component from late 1998 should have concentrated on completing the
ongoing sub-projects, whereas the uncommitted remainder of the credit line should have been cancelled. In
case of the EEP, such major cancellation of funds took place at a rather late stage (in January 2002) as the
government first tried to identify new sub-projects, and then was considering a near-emergency program to
rehabilitate heating sector in the Far East of Russia (see Section 3.4).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The draft ICR was reviewed by the Ministry of Energy of the Russian Federation. The Ministry agrees in
principle with the findings of the Bank's report. English translation of the project completion report
prepared by the Ministry is attached to this ICR as Annex 8.


(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information


10.1 Borrower's actions at the policy level to support energy efficiency and address project objectives.

The development of a national institutional and legal framework to increase the efficiency of energy use in
the country has been considered a priority by GOR in recent years. A set of laws, procedural requirements
and technical standards were put in place at the federal level, including 2 federal laws, 22 resolutions of the
government, and 2 decrees of the president. In particular, these are the federal law "On Energy Efficiency"
(1996); guidelines on the energy audit of enterprises (1999); government resolutions "On the urgent



                                                     - 16 -

measures to promote energy efficiency" (No 1087 of 10/02/95), "On increasing the efficiency of the use of
energy resources and water by enterprises and organizations funded from the federal budget" (No 832 of
07/08/97), and "On additional measures to provide incentives for energy efficiency" (No 588 of 06/15/98).
Twenty new regulatory acts are expected to be put in place in support of the federal law "On Energy
Efficiency".   The Federal Program "Energy Efficiency in Russia" was implemented in 1998 - 2001.
The follow-up Federal Program "Energy Efficient Economy" for 2002 ­ 2005, recently launched by the
government, supports a wide range of measures to strengthen efficiency in the production and utilization of
energy. Increasing energy efficiency in the various sectors of national economy is also assigned the highest
priority by the Energy Strategy of Russia until 2020, adopted by the government in 2000. Twenty six such
sectoral programs are currently operative. Energy efficiency requirements are currently part of 314 federal
standards (GOST) and 15 more federal standards are expected to be adopted soon. Existing construction
standards (SNIP) are being revised to increase up to 1.5 ­ 2 times the requirements with respect to energy
saving ability of residential and industrial buildings. They will also require more extensive use of heat
metering and control equipment.

At the sub-national level, an institutional and legal framework to promote energy efficiency is also being
established - 35 respective regional laws are effective, 362 resolutions on energy efficiency have been
issued by the regional governments. Forty seven sub-national energy efficiency programs are under
implementation.     Strong efforts are being made to establish entities to support and monitor energy
efficiency activities and to ensure that energy service companies have access to advanced technologies and
equipment as well as the best operational practices.       More than 50 regions have established energy
efficiency centers, agencies and associations for that purpose, which operate either on a commercial or
non-profit basis. Ten regional foundations to support energy efficiency activities are currently operative.

10.2 Summary description of the energy efficiency programs supported under the Project

a)     Ryazan     (loan cost - US$ 494,984; local co-financing ­ US$ 161,983; beneficiary - Unitary
       Enterprise "Ryazan Municipal Heating Networks")

The sub-loan has financed installation of heat meters and automatic control systems for heat sub-stations.
Thus, 35 heat meters were installed at heat sub-stations, 6 centralized heat sub-stations were equipped with
automatic controls. The sub-project was completed in 1998 and since then has resulted in annual economic
cost savings of US$ 1.26 mln equivalent and financial cost savings of US$ 0.35 mln equivalent, fuel
savings of 2.0 thousand conventional tonne per year, and GHG emissions reduction of 3.9 thousand tonne
of CO2 annually.




                                                     - 17 -

C o m p o n e n t                                         Description                                     E I R R
C o n t r a c t E E P / R Z N / I H M 0 0 1               H e a t m e t e r s                            5 0 8 %
C o n t r a c t E E P / R Z N / R C S 0 0 3               Autom a t i o n o f 6 C H S                   26.1%
A l l c o m p o n e n t s t o t a l                                                                      2 8 9 %


C o m p o n e n t                                         Description                                     F I R R
C o n t r a c t E E P / R Z N / I H M 0 0 1               H e a t m e t e r s                            2 4 1 %
C o n t r a c t E E P / R Z N / R C S 0 0 3               Autom a t i o n o f 6 C H S                   17.3%
A l l c o m p o n e n t s t o t a l                                                                     82.9%


E n v i r o n m e n t a l s a v i n g s                                                                ton / year
C O 2 - e m issions savings                                                                               3,908
N O x - e m issions savings                                                                                  6
S O 2 - e m i s s i o n s s a v i n g s                                                                      0
D u s t - e m issions                                                                                        0
A s h - e m issions                                                                                          0


F u e l s a v i n g s o f t h o u s a n d c o n v e n t i o n a l t o n n e p e r y e a r                 2.02


IB R D - l o a n                                                                                U S D   4 9 4 , 9 8 4
C o - f i n a n c i n g                                                                         U S D   1 6 1 , 9 8 3

b)             Semenov - Nizhny Novgorod region (loan cost - US$ 7,305,578; local co-financing ­ US$
2,242,472; beneficiary - Municipal Unitary Enterprise "Teplovye Sety of Semenov")

Activities have covered almost full rehabilitation of the heating system of the city. The installed equipment
includes: (i) 30 automated container boiler houses with a total output of 116,7 megawatts; (ii) 20
kilometers of pre-insulated heating pipelines; (iii) instrumentation for the tuning of energy equipment and
the energy and environmental audit; and (iv) 6 sets of meters and control instruments for heat and hot water
supply. Results of the 2001-2002 heating season demonstrate high economic, financial and environmental
efficiency of investments: economic cost savings of US$ 2.93 mln equivalent and financial cost savings of
US$ 1.91 mln equivalent, fuel savings of 25.6 thousand conventional tonne, and CO2 emissions reduction
of 30.7 thousand tonne.




                                                                                      - 18 -

Component                        Description                                        EIRR
Contract EEP/SEM/BFE004A         Boilers for the city of Semenov                   32.0%
Contract EEP/SEM/BFE004B         Boilers for the city of Semenov                   36.9%
Contract EEP/SEM/BFE010          Boilers for the city of Semenov                   27.0%
Contract EEP/SEM/CLD009          Meters for the city of Semenov                    40.1%
Contract EEP/SEM/HEM005          DH and DHW pipes for the city of Semenov           3.2%
Contract EEP/SEM/BFE083A         Boilers for the Oblast of Nizny Novgorod          63.2%
Contract EEP/SEM/BFE083B         Boilers for the Oblast of Nizny Novgorod          35.0%
Contract EEP/SEM/OMO054          Mobile Laboratory Equipment for the Oblast area   469.5%
All components total                                                               34.7%


Component                        Description                                        FIRR
Contract EEP/SEM/BFE004A         Boilers for the city of Semenov                   17.1%
Contract EEP/SEM/BFE004B         Boilers for the city of Semenov                   22.6%
Contract EEP/SEM/BFE010          Boilers for the city of Semenov                   14.0%
Contract EEP/SEM/CLD009          Meters for the city of Semenov                    25.5%
Contract EEP/SEM/HEM005          DH and DHW pipes for the city of Semenov           -0.6%
Contract EEP/SEM/BFE083A         Boilers for the Oblast of Nizny Novgorod          28.2%
Contract EEP/SEM/BFE083B         Boilers for the Oblast of Nizny Novgorod          17.6%
Contract EEP/SEM/OMO054          Mobile Laboratory Equipment for the Oblast area   191.0%
All components total                                                               19.5%


Environmental savings                                                             ton/year
CO2 - emissions savings                                                            30,744
NOx - emissions savings                                                              50
SO2 - emissions savings                                                             1,740
Dust - emissions                                                                     42
Ash-emissions                                                                        79


Fuel savings of thousand conventional tonne per year                                25.6


IBRD-loan                                                                     USD 7,305,578
Co-financing                                                                  USD 2,242,472

c)      Kaliningrad         (loan cost - US$ 4,910,328; local co-financing ­ US$ 1,123,633; beneficiary -
        Municipal Heating Enterprise "Kaliningradteploset")

The sub-project has addressed rehabilitation of the city's main heat production facility, and upgrade of
secondary heating facilities and distribution networks. Procured equipment includes: (i) water, heat and
gas meters; (ii) equipment for the automated gas boiler house; (iii) 11 automated centralized heat
sub-stations; (iv) 185 automated individual heat sub-stations; (v) 16 km of pre-insulated plastic hot water
pipelines; (vi) automated control system for the combined heat and power plant; (vii) dispatch system for
the heating facilities of the city; and (viii) emissions control equipment.            The 2001-2002 heating season
demonstrated economic savings of US$ 1.52 mln equivalent and financial savings of US$ 0.71 mln
equivalent, fuel savings ­ 15.9 thousand conventional tonne, and CO2 emissions reduction ­ 38.3 thousand
tonne. Most of the procured equipment have entered in operation in 2002, and economic cost savings of
the 2002-2003 season are expected to exceed US$ 2.2 mln equivalent, corresponding financial savings -
US$ 1.11 mln equivalent, fuel savings ­ 23.7 thousand conventional tonne, and CO2 emissions reduction ­
52.5 thousand tonne.




                                                              - 19 -

Component                                          Description                              EIRR
ContractEEP/KLN/HME014_SPM015_GME016_BAS021_HEM019 RTS"Severnaya"HeatingStation            142.3%
Contract EEP/KLN/BFE017                            BoilerHouseEmeljanova300                75.5%
ContractEEP/KLN/CHS018_RCS020_CHS022               CentralHeatingSubstations               25.6%
Contract EEP/KLN/CHS018A_WHE023                    CentralandIndividualHeatingSubstations  20.3%
Contract EEP/KLN/HEM024                            DHWpipelines                            103.5%
Allcomponentstotal                                                                         65.8%


Component                                          Description                              FIRR
ContractEEP/KLN/HME014_SPM015_GME016_BAS021_HEM019 RTS"Severnaya"HeatingStation            31.0%
Contract EEP/KLN/BFE017                            BoilerHouseEmeljanova300                44.0%
ContractEEP/KLN/CHS018_RCS020_CHS022               CentralHeatingSubstations                9.3%
Contract EEP/KLN/CHS018A_WHE023                    CentralandIndividualHeatingSubstations  13.4%
Contract EEP/KLN/HEM024                            DHWpipelines                            37.9%
Allcomponentstotal                                                                         18.7%


Environmentalsavings                                                                      ton/year
CO2-emissionssavings                                                                       61,455
NOx - emissions savings                                                                      85
SO2-emissionssavings                                                                         89
Dust-emissions                                                                               18
Ash-emissions                                                                                15


Fuelsavingsofthousandconventionaltonneperyear                                               28.7


IBRD-loan                                                                            USD  4,910,328
Co-financing                                                                         USD  1,123,633

d)       Archangelsk (loan cost - US$ 3,844,402; local co-financing ­ US$ 3,594,045; beneficiary -
         Government of Archangelsk, Communal Services Department)

Investments supported rehabilitation and replacement of the selected heating facilities, and construction of a
heating main to ensure adequate heat supply to a remote city district. Procured equipment includes: (i)
container boiler house and boilers, (ii) heat main (10 km) and distribution (30 km) pipelines, (iii) electric
transformer sub-station, and (iv) equipment for making energy audits. The heating main, boiler equipment
with a total output of 10 megawatt, and 0.8 km of heat distribution pipelines have been commissioned. The
rest of the equipment is expected to enter into operation by the end of 2003. In 2001-2002 heating season
economic cost savings amounted to US$ 0.48 mln equivalent, financial savings - US$ 0.28 mln equivalent,
fuel savings ­ 3.6 thousand conventional tonne, and CO2 emissions reduction ­ 14.7 thousand tonne. In
the 2003-2004 season economic savings are expected to exceed US$ 3.4 mln equivalent, financial savings -
US$ 3.6 mln equivalent, fuel savings ­ 5.9 thousand conventional tonne, and CO2 emissions reduction ­
22.5 thousand tonne.




                                                            - 20 -

Component                 Description                                                     EIRR
Component no 1            Distribution pipelines, disconnection of old boiler houses      52.8%
Component no 2            Distribution pipelines, disconnection of old boiler houses     273.5%
Component no 3            Heating mains, 1000 mm pipeline                                 14.7%
Component no 4            Mobile laboratory equipments                                    88.7%
Component no 5            New boilers                                                     14.9%
Component no 6            Mobile boiler house + transformer                               37.7%
All components total                                                                      31.3%


Component                 Description                                                     FIRR
Component no 1            Distribution pipelines, disconnection of old boiler houses      28.5%
Component no 2            Distribution pipelines, disconnection of old boiler houses      54.8%
Component no 3            Heating mains, 1000 mm pipeline                                 8.7%
Component no 4            Mobile laboratory equipments                                    51.7%
Component no 5            New boilers                                                     12.3%
Component no 6            Mobile boiler house + transformer                               32.4%
All components total                                                                      22.1%


Environmental savings                                                                    ton/year
CO2 - emissions savings                                                                   29,940
NOx - emissions savings                                                                    22
SO2 - emissions savings                                                                    514
Dust - emissions                                                                           62
Ash-emissions                                                                              56


Fuel savings of thousand conventional tonne per year                                       7.0


IBRD-loan                                                                          USD  3,844,402
Co-financing                                                                       USD  3,594,045
e)        Environmental benefits

Projections for environmental benefits of sub-projects are summarized below.

Ryazan
Emissions savings                                  1998         1999          2000    2001       2002    2003    2004   2005
CO2
CO2 - emissions savings          Ton/yr              0            0            0      2,036     3,908   3,908    3,908  3,908
NOx
NOx - emissions savings          Ton/yr              0            0            0        3         6       6        6      6
SO2
SO2 - emissions savings          Ton/yr              0            0            0        0         0       0        0      0
Dust
Dust - emissions                 Ton/yr              0            0            0        0         0       0        0      0
Ash
Ash-emissions                    Ton/yr              0            0            0        0         0       0        0      0
Semenov
Emissions savings                                 1998        1999         2000      2001     2002    2003    2004     2005
CO2
CO2 - emissions savings          Ton/yr             0         2,008        18,847   30,338    29,074  29,777  30,744   30,744
NOx
NOx - emissions savings          Ton/yr             0           4            33       52        46     48      50       50
SO2
SO2 - emissions savings          Ton/yr             0          105          674      992      1,576   1,686   1,740    1,740
Dust
Dust - emissions                 Ton/yr             0           2            10       15        39     41      42       42
Ash
Ash-emissions                    Ton/yr             0           4            27       40        73     77      79       79




                                                               - 21 -

Kaliningrad
Emissions savings                        1998    1999      2000     2001     2002      2003    2004      2005
CO2
CO2 - emissions savings      Ton/yr        0     6,063    17,028   30,780    45,811   59,143   61,455    61,455
NOx
NOx - emissions savings      Ton/yr        0       8        18        39      62        82      85        85
SO2
SO2 - emissions savings      Ton/yr        0       18      156       134      111       89      89        89
Dust
Dust - emissions             Ton/yr        0       4        19        19      19        18      18        18
Ash
Ash-emissions                Ton/yr        0       3        17        16      15        15      15        15
Archangelsk
Emissions savings                        1998    1999     2000      2001     2002     2003     2004      2005
CO2
CO2 - emissions savings      Ton/yr       0     4,162    10,662   14,474    15,060    18,853  26,163    29,940
NOx
NOx - emissions savings      Ton/yr       0        3        7        11       11       15       20        22
SO2
SO2 - emissions savings      Ton/yr       0       69       180      249      260       329     452        514
Dust
Dust - emissions             Ton/yr       0        9       23        30       31       37       53        62
Ash
Ash-emissions                Ton/yr       0        8       20        27       28       34       48        56
10.3    Summary of revisions in project scope

In the course of implementation, the scope of activities under both project components was revised at
Borrower's request as follows:

(i) The budget for Gas Sector Studies was reduced from the original US$ 10 mln to US$ 9.395 mln as of
March 3, 2000, and further to US$ 7.872 mln as of January 23, 2002 reflecting the decreased estimated
cost of activities. As of March 18, 2002, uncommitted TA funds were cancelled, bringing the budget of the
component down to US$ 4.422 mln.

(ii) The budget for the Energy Efficiency Investments was increased from the original US$ 60 mln to US$
60.605 as of March 3, 2000, to account for PIU operating expenses. The component was reduced to US$
22.128 mln as of January 23, 2002 based on actual commitments under the credit line, since it became
clear that no more on-lending would be feasible. It was further reduced to US$ 21.188 mln as of
September 20, 2002, when the uncommitted TA funds were cancelled.




                                                 - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

The amount of savings in fuel was established at appraisal as an indicator to assess the outcome of the
energy efficiency investment program.    Table below provides details on the projected in SAR and the
actual annual savings from the project.

                                         Estimated annual savings from the project
                                        Projected in SAR               Actual
Mazut                (tonne)                    -                     21,358
Coal                 (tonne)                    -                     18,141
Gas                  (1000 nm )
                              3             180,000                   20,423
Electricity          (MWh)                      -                      3,636
Untreated water      (m )
                        3                       -                    1,306,950
Treated water        (m )
                        3                       -                    414,442


It was estimated at appraisal that the annual fuel savings from the Energy Efficiency Investment
Component would be equivalent to gas savings of 180,000 MCM (1000 nm3). This projection was based
on the assumption that the US$ 58 mln credit line will be disbursed in full. However, only US$ 16.6 mln
of the credit line was disbursed, therefore, an equivalent of 51,517 MCM or 58.49 thousand of fuel
conventional tonne, should be considered as target annual savings for the actual investment program of
reduced scope.    As indicated in a table below, the actual annual fuel savings from the completed
sub-projects are estimated at the equivalent of 63.22 thousand conventional tonne, which exceeds the
appraisal target.


       Estimated annual fuel savings by sub-projects
             (in thousand conventional tonne)
Ryazan                                  2.02
Semenov                                 25.6
Kaliningrad                             28.6
Archangelsk                             7.0
Total                                   63.22




                                                  - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Costs by Components
  (US$ million equivalent)
                                       Appraisal         Actual/Latest     Percentage of
       Project Component               Estimate           Estimate          Appraisal
Gas Sector Studies (Part A)              10.0                4.1               41%
Energy Efficiency Investments            66.3                26.0              39%
(Part B)
Total                                    76.3                30.1              39%

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
  (US$ million equivalent)
  Appraisal Estimate
Expenditure Category                Procurement Method*                N.B.F.***        Total Cost
                           ICB             NCB            Other**
1. Goods                  (52.0)             -              (6.0)           -             58.0
2. Services                  -               -             (12.0)          6.3            18.3
Total                     (52.0)             -             (18.0)          6.3            76.3

Actual/Latest Estimate
Expenditure Category                Procurement Method*                N.B.F.***        Total Cost
                           ICB             NCB            Other**
1. Goods                  (14.7)             -              (1.9)          7.1            23.7
2. Services                  -               -              (5.4)          0.4             5.8
3. Operating costs           -               -              (0.5)          0.1             0.6
Total                     (14.7)             -              (7.8)          7.6            30.1
*       Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IBRD Loan.
**      Includes goods to be procured through international shopping and consulting services.
***     Not Bank Financed - co-financing for engineering, procurement and installation from the local
executing agencies and the Government of Russia.

Project Financing by Component
(US$ million equivalent)
   Component        Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of Appraisal

                    Bank       Govt.*         Bank        Govt.*          Bank         Govt.*
Gas Sector           10.0          -           4.0          0.1           40%             -
Studies
Energy               60.0        6.3           18.5         7.5           31%           119%
Efficiency
Investments
Total                70.0        6.3           22.5         7.6           32%           120%
* Includes financing of engineering, procurement and installation by the local executing agencies and the
Government of Russia.




                                                   - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1. Economic Summary

Economic Rates of Return

From the perspective of economic feasibility, all subprojects and their components yielded a high economic
rate of return.

             Archangelsk      Kaliningard       Ryazan          Semenov
 EIRR        31.3%            65.8%             289%            34.7%

Data used for Economic Benefits and Costs calculations

Savings in fuel consumption, electricity, treated water, untreated water, personnel and repair/maintenance
costs were computed based on the difference in costs before and after investments, and valued at the
economic price of the relevant items.

The lifetime of the individual investment items is estimated as follows: (i) boilers - 15 years; (ii) pipes - 15
years; (iii) individual heat substations (IHS) and centralized heat sub-stations (CHS) - 10 years; and (iv)
mobile laboratory equipment - 5 years.

Main Assumptions

Price of gas. Russia possesses an amble indigenous supply of natural gas. Proven reserves total over 40
trillion cubic meters, while annual production is in order of 600 billion cubic meters. The super-giant
fields in the Yamal Peninsula (Urengoy, Yamburg, Zapolyarnoe) represent a low-cost source of supply,
which, despite their remoteness, allow Russia to compete effectively in European markets and also convey
the benefit of low-cost energy to domestic consumers.

Unfortunately, little information is publicly available on the long-run incremental costs of gas production.
Sources have cited the production costs in Yamal at as low as US$5.00 per 1000 cubic meters (MCM).
While existing wells are slowly being depleted, it has been estimated that step-outs from these fields could
be developed, which could maintain current production levels at costs in the order of US$7 - US$10 per
MCM. The marginal cost of transmission to European Russia (a distance of approximately 2,500 km.) is
estimated at between US$1.00 and US$1.50 per MCM per 100 km. While this is relatively high given that
an extensive pipeline network is already in place, the transmission system crosses adverse terrain, and is
reputed to be in poor condition and costly to maintain. Assuming a marginal production cost of US$10 per
MCM, the economic value of gas delivered to Semenov would range from US$35 to US$47.5 per MCM,
and delivered to Kaliningrad - from US$45 to US$57.5 per MCM.

An alternative economic value can be derived by calculating the net-back for exported gas delivered to
European markets. Assuming a price of US$68 per MCM at the Finland border, and taking into account
that transit fees are virtually zero, it gives approximately a value of US$55 - US$50 at the Russian border,
and it can be estimated that the price in Kaliningrad will be the same. Transmission costs from the border
to Semenov would reduce the value to approximately US$45 - US$50 at the city gate. However, the
quantity of gas which Russia can export is capped by the desire of European countries to maintain
diversified sources of supply. Hence, the net-back figure probably overstates the true economic value - the
economic value of gas delivered to Kaliningrad is estimated at US$50, and of gas delivered to Semenov ­


                                                      - 25 -

at US$40 per MCM.
Price of Heavy Oil (Mazut) and Coal. The economic prices of mazut and coal are assumed to be
equivalent to their financial prices in market economies (mazut - US$140 per ton, and coal - US$62 per ton
in average), adjusted to reflect the shadow prices of local inputs. The economic value of mazut is estimated
at US$98 per ton delivered to Semenov, and at US$110 per ton delivered to Kaliningrad. The economic
value of coal is estimated at US$58 per ton delivered to Semenov and at US$63 per ton delivered to
Kaliningrad.

Price of Electricity. The economic price of electricity in Russia is depressed by the effect of current
over-capacity in the system. Hence, in calculating the economic price based on long-run marginal cost, the
discounted value approaches the short-run marginal cost of supply. The low cost of the primary thermal
fuel (gas), together with the prevalence of co-generation (CHP plants account for approximately 40 percent
of total capacity) further limit the economic value. Since no comprehensive analyses of long-run marginal
cost of supply was carried out in Russia, the economic value of generation is taken as US$20 per MWh.
Since there is less reserve capacity in the transmission network, the economic value is assumed to be
US$10 per MWh. Distribution is assumed to be at US$30 per MWh, because of high distribution losses
and the relatively bad condition of the network. The economic value of electricity is estimated at US$58
per MWh in Semenov and US$63 per MWh in Kaliningrad.

Price of Water. The economic price of water is estimated to be comparable to financial prices in market
economies. The economic value of untreated water is estimated at US$0.40 per m3 and, of treated wate -
at US$1.20 per m3.

Economic values
                                                                 Treated    Untreated
City             Electricity    Coal      Mazut        Gas         water     water      Salary
                                                    USD/1000                             USD/
                USD/MWh USD/ton          USD/ton       nm3       USD/m3     USD/m3      month
Semenov             58           58         98          40          1.2       0.4        500
Ryazan              60           60        100          45          1.2       0.4        500
Archangelsk         63           63        110         N/A          2.4       0.8        500
Kaliningrad         63           63        110          50          1.2       0.4        500


2. Financial Summary

Financial Rates of Return

From the perspective of financial feasibility, all sub-projects and their components yielded a high financial
rate of return, despite the relatively low prices paid for energy supply ­ and the low economic cost of
supply, which will tend to temper future energy price increases.

             Archangelsk      Kaliningard     Ryazan           Semenov
 FIRR        22.1%            18.7%           83%              19.5%




                                                     - 26 -

Main assumptions ­ Financial Analysis

The table below indicates the assumptions used in the financial analysis for the inflation, ruble/US$
exchange rate, and fuel price increases.

                           1998 1999    2000   2001    2002     2003      2004      2005      2006      2007
 Inflation          in 28%      89%     32%    21%     16%      12%       10%       8%        7%        6%
 Russia
Exchange         Rate 9.74      24.63   28.50  30.00   32.55    34.73     36.54     37.97     38.98     39.59
RUR/US$
 Fuel          Price 95%        100% 116% 195% 238% 271% 290% 309% 330% 351%
 Increase

3. Cost-Benefit Analysis, EIRR, FIRR and NPV by sub-projects.
Ryazan
All contracts
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
EIRR                                         288.8%

Total Capital Costs, without VAT             662,107  US$
                                             662,107  US$
Project Start Date                            1997
Project In-Service Date                       2002
Project Useful Life                            11     years



Expenditures without VAT
                                              1997    1998     1999      2000      2001      2002      2003
Total Expenditure in Real Prices in US$      144,564 509,388    0         0        6,244     1,911      0

Savings                                       1997    1998     1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005

Operating costs
Electricity
- quantity of electricity (Mwh)                0       0        0         0        122       199       199       199       199
- cost of electricity ($ / Mwh)                60      60       60        60        60        60        60        60        60
Total electricity                              0       0        0         0        7,262    11,904    11,904    11,904    11,904
Operating costs
Total operating costs                          0       0        0         0        7,262    11,904    11,904    11,904    11,904

Heat Purchases
 - quantity of purchased heat (GCal/yr)        0     39,438   78,876    78,876    86,250    93,031    93,031    93,031    93,031
 - heat purchase price                        16.00   16.00    16.00     16.00     16.00     16.00     16.00     16.00     16.00
Purchased heat                                 0     631,009 1,262,018 1,262,018 1,379,998 1,488,494 1,488,494 1,488,494 1,488,494

Total Savings                                  0     631,009 1,262,018 1,262,018 1,387,260 1,500,398 1,500,398 1,500,398 1,500,398

Net cash flow                               -144,564 121,621 1,262,018 1,262,018 1,381,016 1,498,487 1,500,398 1,500,398 1,500,398

Net Present Value (disount rate 12%)          US$
NPV electricity savings                       34,948
NPV heat purchases                          6,517,072
NPV total costs savings                     6,552,019
NPV                                         6,012,352




                                                       - 27 -

Ryazan
All contracts
Value added tax                              20%


Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
FIRR                                         82.9%

Total Capital Costs                        794,528    US$
Project Start Date                           1997
Project In-Service Date                      2002
Project Useful Life                           11     years

Expenditures including VAT
                                             1997    1998     1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    Total
Total Expenditure in Real Prices in US$    173,477 611,266     0       0     7,492   2,293     0     794,528

Savings                                      1997    1998     1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005

Operating costs
Electricity
- quantity of electricity (MWh)                0       0       0       0      122     199     199     199     199
- cost of electricity ($ / MWh)              41.07   16.24   21.05   28.67   29.19   31.27   31.75   32.56   33.81
Total electricity                              0       0       0       0     3,548   6,231   6,326   6,489   6,738
Operating costs
Total operating costs                          0       0       0       0     3,548   6,231   6,326   6,489   6,738

Heat Purchases
- quantity of purchased heat (GCal/yr)         0     39,438  78,876  78,876  86,250  93,031  93,031  93,031  93,031
- heat purchase price                        8.02    11.31    4.47    3.87    4.82    6.08    7.52    8.57    9.16
Purchased heat                                 0    446,180  352,845 304,932 415,811 565,433 699,176 797,537 852,046

Total Savings                                  0    446,180  352,845 304,932 419,359 571,664 705,502 804,026 858,784

Net cash flow                              -173,477 -165,086 352,845 304,932 411,866 569,371 705,502 804,026 858,784

Net Present Value (disount rate 10.5%)       US$
NPV electricity savings                      21,900
NPV heat purchases                         3,152,458
NPV total costs savings                    3,174,358
NPV                                        2,510,940




                                                       - 28 -

Ryazan
Project Summary

                                          Total         Ryazan          Ryazan
                                                       Contract        Contract
                                                    EEP/RZN/IHM001  EEP/RZN/RCS003
                                          US$            US$             US$
Investment Costs
Without VAT                              575,850       144,564          431,286

Investment Cost with VAT and Custom      689,109       173,477          515,632
Duties

Internal Rate of Return
EIRR                                     289%           508.3%          26.1%
FIRR                                      83%           241.0%          17.3%



Net Present Value from Economic
Analysis (discount rate 12%)              US$            US$             US$
NPV electricity savings                  34,948                         39,141
NPV heat purchases                     6,517,072      5,094,508         731,839
NPV total costs savings                6,552,019      5,094,508         770,980


Net Present Value from Financial
Analysis (discount rate 10.5%)            US$            US$             US$
NPV electricity savings                  21,900                         23,201
NPV heat purchases                     3,152,458      2,218,641         653,169
NPV total costs savings                3,174,358      2,218,641         676,369




                                       - 29 -

Semenov
All contracts
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
E I R R                                                                          34.7%

T o t a l C a p i t a l C o s t s , w i t h o u t V A T                       9 , 4 8 4 , 4 8 3     U S $
                                                                              9 , 4 8 4 , 4 8 3     U S $
Project Start Date                                                                1 9 9 8
Project In-Service Date                                                           2 0 0 2
Project Useful Life                                                                 1 7             years



E x p e n d i t u r e s w i t h o u t V A T
                                                                                  1 9 9 8           1 9 9 9             2 0 0 0           2 0 0 1           2 0 0 2           2 0 0 3           2 0 0 4
T o t a l E x p e n d i t u r e i n R e a l P r i c e s i n U S $             1,312,494          3,100,389          2,958,520         1,913,498          1 9 9 , 5 8 3            0                 0

S a v i n g s                                                                     1 9 9 8           1 9 9 9             2 0 0 0           2 0 0 1           2 0 0 2           2 0 0 3           2 0 0 4           2 0 0 5
F u e l C o s t
M a z u t
 - quantity of fuel (ton)                                                             0             1 , 4 9 9           9,639            1 4 , 1 8 4      2 0 , 0 3 2       2 1 , 6 1 7        2 2 , 3 7 6       2 2 , 3 7 6
 - cost of fuel ($ / ton)                                                         98.00             9 8 . 0 0           98.00             9 8 . 0 0         9 8 . 0 0         98.00             9 8 . 0 0         9 8 . 0 0
 - Subtotal                                                                           0           1 4 6 , 9 0 2       9 4 4 , 6 3 7   1 , 3 9 0 , 0 4 2 1 , 9 6 3 , 1 6 5 2 , 1 1 8 , 4 5 1 2 , 1 9 2 , 8 0 9 2,192,809
C o a l
 - quantity of fuel (ton)                                                             0                 0                  0                  0             3 , 1 1 5         3,115             3 , 1 1 5         3 , 1 1 5
 - cost of fuel ($ / ton)                                                         58.00             5 8 . 0 0           58.00             5 8 . 0 0         5 8 . 0 0         58.00             5 8 . 0 0         5 8 . 0 0
 - Subtotal                                                                           0                 0                  0                  0          1 8 0 , 6 7 0     1 8 0 , 6 7 0     1 8 0 , 6 7 0     1 8 0 , 6 7 0
G a s
 - quantity of fuel (1000nm3)                                                         0            -1,236              -5,247            -6,536          - 1 9 , 9 1 6     - 2 1 , 8 6 9      -22,518           - 2 2 , 5 1 8
 - cost of fuel ($ / 1000nm3)                                                     40.00             4 0 . 0 0           40.00             4 0 . 0 0         4 0 . 0 0         40.00             4 0 . 0 0         4 0 . 0 0
 - Subtotal                                                                           0           -49,446             -209,892         - 2 6 1 , 4 4 1  - 7 9 6 , 6 5 8   -874,764           - 9 0 0 , 7 0 0   - 9 0 0 , 7 0 0
total fuel costs                                                                      0           9 7 , 4 5 6         7 3 4 , 7 4 5   1 , 1 2 8 , 6 0 1 1 , 3 4 7 , 1 7 7 1 , 4 2 4 , 3 5 7 1 , 4 7 2 , 7 7 8 1,472,778

O p e r a t i n g c o s t s
U n t r e a t e d W a ter
 - quantity of water (m3)                                                         1,576              7 2 1              6,834           - 7 0 , 4 3 8   - 3 8 8 , 2 6 3   -384,839           - 3 8 3 , 8 9 3   - 3 8 3 , 8 9 3
 - c o s t o f w a t e r ( $ / m 3 )                                              0 . 4 0           0.40                 0 . 4 0           0.40             0.40              0 . 4 0            0.40              0.40
 - Subtotal                                                                        6 3 0             2 8 8              2,734           - 2 8 , 1 7 5   - 1 5 5 , 3 0 5   -153,936           - 1 5 3 , 5 5 7   - 1 5 3 , 5 5 7
T r e a t e d W ater
 - quantity of water (m3)                                                             0                 0                  0                  0          1 9 1 , 9 8 2     1 9 1 , 9 8 2     1 9 1 , 9 8 2     1 9 1 , 9 8 2
 - c o s t o f w a t e r ( $ / m 3 )                                              1 . 2 0           1.20                 1 . 2 0           1.20             1.20              1 . 2 0            1.20              1.20
 - Subtotal                                                                           0                 0                  0                  0          2 3 0 , 3 7 8     2 3 0 , 3 7 8     2 3 0 , 3 7 8     2 3 0 , 3 7 8
T o t a l w a t e r                                                                6 3 0             2 8 8              2,734           - 2 8 , 1 7 5     7 5 , 0 7 3       7 6 , 4 4 3        7 6 , 8 2 1       7 6 , 8 2 1
E lectricity
 - quantity of electricity (Mwh)                                                      0              - 6 7                -50              - 7 0 6          - 7 4 5           - 6 9 4            - 6 6 0           - 6 6 0
 - cost of electricity ($ / Mwh)                                                    5 8               5 8                 5 8                5 8              5 8               5 8                5 8               5 8
Total electricity                                                                     0            -3,858              -2,877           - 4 0 , 9 2 6    - 4 3 , 1 9 6     - 4 0 , 2 2 6      -38,298           - 3 8 , 2 9 8
Operating costs
Total operating costs                                                              6 3 0           -3,570               - 1 4 3         - 6 9 , 1 0 1     3 1 , 8 7 7       3 6 , 2 1 7        3 8 , 5 2 3       3 8 , 5 2 3

M a i n t e n a n c e a n d r e p a i r s p a r e p a r t c o s t s
R e p a i r s a v i n g s
Total repair costs savings                                                            0             2 , 9 5 5          2 3 , 8 0 3       4 7 , 0 4 2      9 6 , 2 5 6      1 0 1 , 4 0 8     1 0 6 , 4 2 8     1 1 0 , 9 2 4
M a intenance and repair personnel costs
 - m a i n t e n a n c e p e r s o n n e l ( m a n - m o n t h )                      0                 0                1 5 9             3 1 3             8 6 2            1,008             1 , 0 0 8         1 , 0 0 8
 - salaries of personnel ($)                                                    5 0 0 . 0 0       5 0 0 . 0 0          5 0 0 . 0 0       5 0 0 . 0 0      5 0 0 . 0 0          5 0 0             5 0 0             5 0 0
total personnel                                                                       0                 0              7 9 , 6 5 8     1 5 6 , 4 1 5     4 3 0 , 9 7 0     5 0 3 , 9 5 7     5 0 3 , 9 5 7     5 0 3 , 9 5 7
Total maintenance and repair costs                                                    0             2 , 9 5 5         1 0 3 , 4 6 2    2 0 3 , 4 5 7     5 2 7 , 2 2 5     6 0 5 , 3 6 5     6 1 0 , 3 8 5     6 1 4 , 8 8 1

Additional heat sales
  - quantity of additional heat sales (GCal/yr)                                       0             7 , 3 3 0          1 7 , 4 5 7       2 1 , 6 2 5      2 5 , 5 1 7       3 1 , 3 7 6        3 2 , 1 7 5       3 2 , 1 7 5
  - heat sales price                                                              21.00             2 1 . 0 0           21.00             2 1 . 0 0         2 1 . 0 0         21.00             2 1 . 0 0         2 1 . 0 0
Additional heat sales                                                                 0           1 5 3 , 9 3 0       3 6 6 , 5 8 7    4 5 4 , 1 3 0     5 3 5 , 8 5 2     6 5 8 , 8 9 0     6 7 5 , 6 8 3     6 7 5 , 6 8 3

H e a t P u r c h a s e s
  - quantity of purchased heat (GCal/yr)                                           3 1 3            1 , 1 8 0           3,270            2 3 , 8 7 8      4 3 , 9 6 9       4 4 , 0 4 6        4 4 , 0 7 5       4 4 , 0 7 5
  - heat purchase price                                                           21.00             2 1 . 0 0           21.00             2 1 . 0 0         2 1 . 0 0         21.00             2 1 . 0 0         2 1 . 0 0
P u r c h a s e d h e a t                                                         6,565           2 4 , 7 8 4          6 8 , 6 7 7     5 0 1 , 4 3 1     9 2 3 , 3 4 0     9 2 4 , 9 6 9     9 2 5 , 5 7 6     9 2 5 , 5 7 6

A v o i d e d I n v e s t m e n t                                                     0           1 9 , 1 7 3          7 6 , 6 7 2     1 2 0 , 3 4 9     1 4 8 , 8 2 2     1 7 1 , 8 9 4     1 8 5 , 3 8 1            0
R e s i d u a l V a l u e o f d e c o m m i s s i o n e d e q u i p m e n t           0                 0                  0                  0                 0                 0                 0                 0
R e s i d u a l V a l u e o f I n v e s t m e n t a f t e r 2 0 2 0

T o t a l S a v i n g s                                                           7,195           2 9 4 , 7 2 8     1 , 3 4 9 , 9 9 9 2 , 3 3 8 , 8 6 7 3 , 5 1 4 , 2 9 4 3 , 8 2 1 , 6 9 1 3 , 9 0 8 , 3 2 7 3,727,442

N e t c a s h f l o w                                                        -1,305,298         -2,805,661          -1,608,521         4 2 5 , 3 6 9    3 , 3 1 4 , 7 1 1 3 , 8 2 1 , 6 9 1 3 , 9 0 8 , 3 2 7 3,727,442
N e t P r e s e n t V a l u e ( d i s o u n t r a t e 1 2 % )                                                 U S $
N P V        f u e l c o s t s a v i n g s                                                                6 , 4 6 5 , 3 2 8
N P V       w a t e r s a v i n g s ( t r e a t e d          a n d  u n t r e a t e d )                       3 1 8 , 6 5 8
N P V       e l e c t r i c i t y s a v i n g s                                                             - 2 0 1 , 2 9 3
N P V        O & M       s a v i n g s                                                                    2 , 8 5 7 , 3 7 6
N P V       h e a t p u r c h a s e s                                                                     4 , 3 7 2 , 7 8 8
N P V        t o t a l c o s t s   s a v i n g s                                                        1 7 , 7 9 4 , 6 7 6
N P V                                                                                                   1 0 , 7 1 6 , 0 6 9




                                                                                                    - 30 -

Semenov
All contracts
Value added tax                                            20%


Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
FIRR                                                      19.5%


Total Capital Costs                                   11,381,380         US$
Project Start Date                                        1998
Project In-Service Date                                   2002
Project Useful Life                                         17           years


Expenditures including VAT
                                                          1998           1999            2000         2001      2002       2003         2004         Total
Total Expenditure in Real Prices in US$                1,574,992      3,720,467      3,550,224     2,296,198  239,499        0            0       11,381,380


Savings                                                   1998           1999            2000         2001      2002       2003         2004         2005
Fuel Cost
Mazut
 - quantity of fuel (ton)                                   0            1,499          9,639        14,184    20,032     21,617       22,376       22,376
 - cost of fuel ($ / ton)                                 53.99          30.56          45.40         52.57     61.45      58.83        59.73        61.27
 - Subtotal                                                 0           45,804        437,651       745,611   1,230,931  1,271,719    1,336,598   1,370,956
Coal
 - quantity of fuel (ton)                                   0              0               0            0       3,115      3,115        3,115        3,115
 - cost of fuel ($ / ton)                                 43.79          15.31          16.32         28.50     30.79      31.41        31.89        32.71
 - Subtotal                                                 0              0               0            0      95,896     97,837       99,341      101,895
Gas
 - quantity of fuel (1000nm3)                               0           -1,236          -5,247       -6,536    -19,916    -21,869      -22,518      -22,518
 - cost of fuel ($ / 1000nm3)                             25.67          11.81          12.36         13.18     19.57      22.75        23.10        23.69
 - Subtotal                                                 0          -14,605         -64,882       -86,145  -389,686   -497,461     -520,086     -533,455
total fuel                                                  0           31,199        372,769       659,466   937,140    872,096       915,853     939,396


Operating costs
Untreated Water
 - quantity of water (m3)                                 1,576          721            6,834        -70,438  -388,263   -384,839     -383,893     -383,893
 - cost of water ($ / m3)                                  0.18          0.09            0.08         0.15      0.17       0.18         0.18         0.19
  - Subtotal                                               280            67             549         -10,566   -65,019 - 68,889     -  69,776    - 71,570
Treated Water
 - quantity of water (m3)                                   0              0               0            0     191,982    191,982       191,982     191,982
 - cost of water ($ / m3)                                  0.52          0.27            0.23         0.44      0.49       0.52         0.53         0.54
 - Subtotal                                                 0              0               0            0      93,234     99,662       101,194     103,796
Total water                                                280            67             549         -10,566   28,215     30,773       31,418       32,226
Electricity
 - quantity of electricity (MWh)                            0             -67            -50          -706      -745       -694         -660         -660
 - cost of electricity ($ / MWh)                          41.07          18.68          23.86         29.67     34.41      35.96        36.51        37.45
Total electricity                                           0           -1,242          -1,183       -20,934   -25,627    -24,938      -24,108      -24,728
Operating costs
Total operating costs                                      280          -1,175           -634        -31,499    2,588      5,834        7,310        7,498


Maintenance and repair spare part costs
Repair costs
Total repair costs                                          0            3,546         28,564        56,450   115,507    121,689       127,713     133,108
Maintenance and repair personnel costs
 - maintenance personnel (man-month)                        0              0             159           313       862       1,008        1,008        1,008
 - salaries of personnel ($)                              143.75         91.35          87.72        146.67    161.52     174.62       188.05       201.32
total personnel                                             0              0           13,975        45,882   139,219    176,002       189,540     202,915
Total maintenance and repair costs                          0            3,546         42,539       102,332   254,725    297,692       317,253     336,023


Additional heat sales
  - quantity of additional heat sales (GCal/yr)             0            7,330         17,457        21,625    25,517     31,376       32,175       32,175
  - heat sales price                                      20.74          15.18          13.82         13.37     11.58      12.38        12.57        12.89
Additional heat sales                                       0          111,304        241,328       289,058   295,556    388,472       404,500     414,898


Heat Purchases
  - quantity of purchased heat (GCal/yr)                   313           1,180          3,270        23,878    43,969     44,046       44,075       44,075
  - heat purchase price                                   24.89          18.22          16.59         16.04     13.90      14.86        15.09        15.47
Purchased heat                                            7,781         21,505         54,253       382,998   611,136    654,419       664,918     682,011


Avoided Investment                                          0           23,008         92,007       144,419   178,586    206,273       222,457         0
Residual Value of decommissioned equipment                  0              0               0            0         0          0            0            0
Residual Value of Investment after 2020


Total Savings                                             8,061        189,386        802,262      1,546,773  2,279,732  2,424,786    2,532,291   2,379,825


Net cash flow                                          -1,566,932     -3,531,080     -2,747,962     -749,424  2,040,232  2,424,786    2,532,291   2,379,825
N e t P r e s e n t V a lu e ( d i s o u n t r a t e 1 0 .5 % )                     U S $
N P V f u e l c o s t s a v in g s                                               5 , 1 0 0 , 1 2 7
N P V w a te r s a v in g s ( t r e a t e d a n d u n t r e a t e d )               1 8 2 , 5 7 5
N P V e le c t r i c i t y s a v i n g s                                          - 1 6 0 , 5 0 7
N P V O & M s a v in g s                                                         2 , 0 3 7 , 9 5 6
N P V h e a t p u r c h a s e s                                                  4 , 2 2 6 , 3 0 2
N P V to ta l c o s ts s a v in g s                                            1 4 , 7 8 9 , 9 7 3
N P V                                                                            6 , 0 0 0 , 8 3 0




                                                                             - 31 -

Semenov
Project Summary
                                        Total      Semenov         Semenov        Semenov       Component4      Component5      Component6
                                                    Contract        Contract      Contract         Contract        Contract      Contract
                                                EEP/SEM/BFE004A EEP/SEM/BFE004B EEP/SEM/BFE010 EEP/SEM/BFE083A EEP/SEM/BFE083B EEP/SEM/CLD009
                                        US$          US$             US$             US$            US$             US$             US$
InvestmentCosts
WithoutVAT                            8,277,764   2,609,180        2,038,045       609,067       1,133,583       1,781,319        106,571


InvestmentCost withVATandCustom       9,872,664   3,131,016        2,385,000       730,880       1,360,300       2,137,582        127,885

Duties


InternalRateofReturn
EIRR                                   34.7%         32.0%          36.9%           27.0%           63.2%          35.0%           40.1%

FIRR                                   19.5%         17.1%          22.6%           14.0%           28.2%          17.6%           25.5%




NetPresentValuefromEconomic
Analysis(discountrate12%)               US$          US$             US$             US$            US$             US$             US$
NPVfuelcostsavings                    6,465,328   1,700,663        1,727,748       851,792         -856,250      1,436,960           0
NPVwatersavings(treatedanduntreated)  318,658       32,066          52,312          16,164         -424,005        642,120           0
NPVelectricitysavings                 -201,293      -118,680        28,318          32,310         -350,573        207,330           0
NPVO&Msavings                         2,857,376     667,442        1,064,226       259,441         -132,556        998,823           0
NPVheatpurchases                      4,372,788   1,877,889        1,636,490        65,709       5,466,703           0            229,697
NPVtotalcostssavings                 17,794,676   4,425,704        4,644,501      1,225,417      3,703,320       3,285,234        229,697


NetPresentValuefromFinancialAnalysis
(discountrate10.5%)                     US$          US$             US$             US$            US$             US$             US$
NPVfuelcostsavings                    5,100,127   1,407,880        1,514,629       591,684         -669,991      1,187,888           0
NPVwatersavings(treatedanduntreated)  182,575       20,512          31,294          10,181         -258,981        379,502           0
NPVelectricitysavings                 -160,507      -97,313         24,685          25,952         -290,593        176,763           0
NPVO&Msavings                         2,037,956     503,203         795,688        184,724         -90,443         643,408           0
NPVheatpurchases                      4,226,302   1,484,343        1,350,428        52,546       3,723,803           0            211,129
NPVtotalcostssavings                 14,789,973   3,659,835        3,891,716       865,086       2,413,795       2,387,560        211,129




                                                                - 32 -

Kaliningrad
All contracts
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
E I R R                                                     65.8%

Total Capital Costs, without VAT                          5,383,737      U S $
                                                          5,383,737      U S $
Project Start Date                                           1998
Project In-Service Date                                      2002
Project Useful Life                                           1 7       years

Expenditures without VAT
                                                             1998        1999       2 0 0 0      2001       2002      2 0 0 3      2004
Total Expenditure in Real Prices in US$                    101,771     641,732    259,846      2,047,341 1,659,904  587,007      86,137

Savings                                                      1998        1999       2 0 0 0      2001       2002      2 0 0 3      2004       2 0 0 5
Fuel Cost
Mazut
 - quantity of fuel (ton)                                       0        -318       -636         -954      -1,271    -1,589       -1,589     -1,589
 - cost of fuel ($ / ton)                                   110.00      110.00     110.00       110.00    110.00     110.00      110.00     110.00
 - Subtotal                                                     0      -34,965     -69,929     -104,894  -139,858   -174,823    -174,823   -174,823
C o a l
 - quantity of fuel (ton)                                       0        716        3,580        3,580     3,580     3,580        3,580      3,580
 - cost of fuel ($ / ton)                                    62.64      62.64       62.64        62.64     62.64     62.64        62.64      62.64
 - Subtotal                                                     0       44,845    224,226       224,226   224,226   224,226      224,226   224,226
G a s
 - quantity of fuel (1000nm3)                                   0       2,201       3,588       10,304    17,602     24,127      25,180     25,180
 - cost of fuel ($ / 1000nm3)                                50.00      50.00       50.00        50.00     50.00     50.00        50.00      50.00
 - Subtotal                                                     0      110,050    179,420       515,205   880,120  1,206,362    1,258,985  1,258,985
total fuel costs                                                0      119,931    333,717       634,537   964,487  1,255,765    1,308,388  1,308,388

Operating costs
Untreated Water
 - quantity of water (m3)                                       0       3,375      10,397       270,407   481,617   820,572      820,572   820,572
 - cost of water ($ / m3)                                    0.40        0.40       0.40         0.40       0.40      0.40         0.40       0.40
 - Subtotal                                                     0       1,350       4,159       108,163   192,647   328,229      328,229   328,229
Treated W a t e r
 - quantity of water (m3)                                       0       28,649     58,044       94,433    148,591   194,760      194,760   194,760
 - cost of water ($ / m3)                                    1.20        1.20       1.20         1.20       1.20      1.20         1.20       1.20
 - Subtotal                                                     0       34,379     69,653       113,320   178,309   233,712      233,712   233,712
Total water                                                     0       35,729     73,812       221,482   370,956   561,941      561,941   561,941
Electricity
 - quantity of electricity (Mwh)                                0        319         661          972      1,282     1,593        1,593      1,593
 - cost of electricity ($ / Mwh)                              6 3         63          63          6 3        6 3        63          6 3         63
Total electricity                                               0       19,960     41,393       60,861    80,330     99,798      99,798     99,798
Operating costs
Total operating costs                                           0       55,688    115,204       282,343   451,286   661,739      661,739   661,739

Maintenance and repair spare part costs
Repair savings
Total repair costs savings                                      0         0        49,641       125,335   164,622   172,792      180,663   187,778
Maintenance and repair personnel costs
 - maintenance personnel (man-month)                            0         55         226          266       427       5 6 4        564        564
 - salaries of personnel ($)                                500.00      500.00     500.00       500.00    500.00      5 0 0        500        500
total personnel                                                 0       27,600    112,800       133,200   213,600   282,000      282,000   282,000
Total maintenance and repair costs                              0       27,600    162,441       258,535   378,222   454,792      462,663   469,778

Additional heat sales
  - quantity of additional heat sales (GCal/yr)                 0         0           0            0        901      1,801        3,288     -36,212
  - heat sales price                                         21.00      21.00       21.00        21.00     21.00     21.00        21.00      21.00
Additional heat sales                                           0         0           0            0      18,915     37,831      69,046    -760,454

Heat Purchases
  - quantity of purchased heat (GCal/yr)                        0         0           0            0          0         0            0          0
  - heat purchase price                                      21.00      21.00       21.00        21.00     21.00     21.00        21.00      21.00
Purchased heat                                                  0         0           0            0          0         0            0          0

Avoided Investment                                              0        150        1,195        7,706    34,759     79,528      100,869    96,952
Residual Value of decommissioned equipment                      0         0           0            0          0         0            0          0
Residual Value of Investment after 2020

Total Savings                                                   0      203,369    612,557      1,183,121 1,847,669 2,489,656    2,602,705  1,776,404

Net cash flow                                              -101,771    -438,362   352,711      -864,219   187,765  1,902,649    2,516,569  1,776,404
N e t P r e s e n t V a l u e ( d i s o u n t r a t e 1 2 % )                      U S $
N P V f u e l c o s t s a v in g s                                            6 , 1 4 9 , 9 3 7
N P V w a t e r s a v in g s ( t r e a t e d a n d u n t r e a t e d )        2 , 5 0 3 , 6 5 6
N P V e le c t r i c i t y s a v i n g s                                          5 1 5 , 3 2 0
N P V O & M s a v i n g s                                                     2 , 2 6 0 , 8 6 5
N P V h e a t p u r c h a s e s                                                               0
N P V t o t a l c o s t s s a v i n g s                                       9 , 6 1 7 , 9 3 8
N P V                                                                         6 , 2 5 1 , 1 7 8




                                                                           - 33 -

Kaliningrad
All contracts
Value added tax                                      20%


Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
FIRR                                                18.7%

Total Capital Costs                               6,460,484     U S $
Project Start Date                                   1998
Project In-Service Date                              2002
Project Useful Life                                   17       years

Expenditures including VAT
                                                     1998      1999      2000       2001          2002        2003        2004        Total
Total Expenditure in Real Prices in US$            122,125   770,078    311,815  2,456,809     1,991,885   704,408     103,364     6,460,484

Savings                                              1998      1999      2000       2001          2002        2003        2004        2005
Fuel Cost
Mazut
 - quantity of fuel (ton)                             0         -318     -636       -954         -1,271      -1,589      -1,589      -1,589
 - cost of fuel ($ / ton)                           53.99      30.56     45.40      52.57         61.45      58.83       59.73       61.27
 - Subtotal                                           0       -9,713    -28,864    -50,127      -78,127     -93,499     -94,936     -97,377
Coal
 - quantity of fuel (ton)                             0          716     3,580      3,580         3,580      3,580       3,580       3,580
 - cost of fuel ($ / ton)                           42.98      21.48     22.31      30.19         35.31      37.04       37.60       38.57
 - Subtotal                                           0       15,376    79,877     108,055      126,388    132,572     134,610      138,070
Gas
 - quantity of fuel (1000nm3)                         0        2,201     3,588     10,304        17,602     24,127      25,180      25,180
 - cost of fuel ($ / 1000nm3)                       31.89      12.75     13.98      17.61         20.23      24.55       24.92       25.56
 - Subtotal                                           0       28,060    50,162     181,404      356,112    592,205     627,541      643,672
total fuel                                            0       33,724    101,175    239,332      404,374    631,278     667,215      684,366

Operating costs
Untreated Water
 - quantity of water (m3)                             0        3,375    10,397     270,407      481,617    820,572     820,572      820,572
 - cost of water ($ / m3)                            0.14       0.08     0.11        0.12         0.14        0.15        0.15        0.15
  - Subtotal                                          0          258     1,116     33,350        66,213   120,589     122,444      125,591
Treated W ater
 - quantity of water (m3)                             0       28,649    58,044     94,433       148,591    194,760     194,760      194,760
 - cost of water ($ / m3)                            0.43       0.38     0.54        0.62         0.69        0.73        0.75        0.77
 - Subtotal                                           0       10,934    31,160     58,234       102,142    143,107     145,308      149,043
Total water                                           0       11,191    32,277     91,584       168,354    263,697     267,752      274,634
Electricity
 - quantity of electricity (MWh)                      0          319      661        972          1,282      1,593       1,593       1,593
 - cost of electricity ($ / MW h)                   26.70      10.56     11.58      16.00         20.58      20.32       20.64       21.17
Total electricity                                     0        3,364     7,651     15,546        26,398     32,380      32,878      33,723
Operating costs
Total operating costs                                 0       14,555    39,928     107,129      194,752    296,077     300,630      308,358

Maintenance and repair spare part costs
Repair costs
Total repair costs                                    0           0     59,569     150,402      197,546    207,351     216,796      225,334
Maintenance and repair personnel costs
 - maintenance personnel (man-month)                  0          55       226        266          427         564         564         564
 - salaries of personnel ($)                        110.90     66.50     79.88      96.41        108.24     119.29      130.96      142.92
total personnel                                       0        3,671    18,021     25,684        46,239     67,279      73,861      80,609
Total maintenance and repair costs                    0        3,671    77,590     176,087      243,785    274,630     290,657      305,943

Additional heat sales
  - quantity of additional heat sales (GCal/yr)       0           0        0          0           901        1,801       3,288      -36,212
  - heat sales price                                20.74      15.18     13.82      13.37         11.58      12.38       12.57       12.89
Additional heat sales                                 0           0        0          0          10,433     22,304      41,335     -466,950

Heat Purchases
  - quantity of purchased heat (GCal/yr)              0           0        0          0             0          0            0           0
  - heat purchase price                             24.89      18.22     16.59      16.04         13.90      14.86       15.09       15.47
Purchased heat                                        0           0        0          0             0          0            0           0

Avoided Investment                                    0          180     1,434      9,247        41,710     95,434     121,043      116,343
Residual Value of decommissioned equipment            0           0        0          0             0          0            0           0
Residual Value of Investment after 2020

Total Savings                                         0       52,130    220,127    531,795      895,055    1,319,724   1,420,879    948,059

Net cash flow                                      -122,125  -717,948   -91,688 -1,925,013     -1,096,830  615,315     1,317,515    948,059
N e t P r e s e n t V a l u e ( d is o u n t r a t e 1 0 .5 % )                     U S $
N P V f u e l c o s t s a v in g s                                             4 , 0 6 9 , 2 8 8
N P V w a t e r s a v in g s ( t r e a t e d a n d u n t r e a t e d )         1 , 5 8 1 , 4 2 2
N P V e le c t r i c i t y s a v in g s                                            2 2 0 , 4 9 3
N P V O & M s a v in g s                                                       1 , 7 8 9 , 3 6 0
N P V h e a t p u r c h a s e s                                                                0
N P V t o t a l c o s t s s a v in g s                                         6 , 1 0 5 , 8 3 2
N P V                                                                          1 , 8 3 8 , 2 5 3




                                                                     - 34 -

Kaliningrad
Project Summary
                                       Total           Kaliningrad      Kaliningrad       Kaliningrad    Component4
                                                        Contract                           Contract
                                               EEP/KLN/HME014_SPM015_GM  Contract    EEP/KLN/CHS018A_WHE   Contract
                                                 E016_BAS021_HEM019    EEP/KLN/BFE017         023       EEP/KLN/HEM024
                                       US$                US$              US$               US$             US$
InvestmentCosts
WithoutVAT                           3,704,971         1,361,013         659,061           738,835         946,061


InvestmentCost withVATandCustom      4,130,796         1,633,215         475,705           886,602        1,135,274
Duties


InternalRateofReturn
EIRR                                  65.8%             142.3%             75.5%           20.3%            103.5%
FIRR                                  18.7%             31.0%              44.0%           13.4%            37.9%




NetPresentValuefromEconomic
Analysis(discountrate12%)              US$                US$              US$               US$             US$
NPVfuelcostsavings                   6,149,937         2,279,991         928,988           466,638        1,930,894
NPVwatersavings(treatedanduntreated) 2,503,656          898,772            22,974             0           1,296,701
NPVelectricitysavings                 515,320           500,737            14,583             0               0
NPVO&Msavings                        2,260,865          393,367          833,860              0            860,462
NPVheatpurchases                        0              -2,410,267            0             246,585            0
NPVtotalcostssavings                 9,617,938         1,669,983         1,800,405         873,730        4,090,571


NetPresentValuefromFinancial
Analysis(discountrate10.5%)            US$                US$              US$               US$             US$
NPVfuelcostsavings                   4,069,288         1,380,983         1,360,288         514,477        1,283,920
untreated)                           1,581,422          709,598            12,978             0            662,072
NPVelectricitysavings                 220,493           214,611            5,870              0               0
NPVO&Msavings                        1,789,360          334,053          575,088              0            817,762
NPVheatpurchases                        0                  0                 0             206,222            0
NPVtotalcostssavings                 6,105,832         2,664,952         1,954,224         908,364        2,767,140




                                                      - 35 -

Arkhangelsk
All contracts
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
EIRR                                                                31.3%

Total Capital Costs, without VAT                                   6,477,454    US$
                                                                   6,477,454    US$
Project Start Date                                                   1998
Project In-Service Date                                              2004
Project Useful Life                                                   20        years



Expenditures without VAT
                                                                     1998       1999       2000      2001          2002         2003      2004
Total Expenditure in Real Prices in US$                            1,414,710   799,650  1,561,240  1,393,378      780,100      425,745   102,630

Savings                                                              1998       1999       2000      2001          2002         2003      2004      2005
Fuel Cost
Mazut
- quantity of fuel (ton)                                              0           0         0          0             83          369       571      571
- cost of fuel ($ / ton)                                            110.00     110.00     110.00    110.00         110.00       110.00    110.00   110.00
- Subtotal                                                            0           0         0          0           9,141        40,557    62,832   62,832
Coal
- quantity of fuel (ton)                                              0         1,767     4,285      5,509         5,613        6,820     9,736    11,446
- cost of fuel ($ / ton)                                             62.64      62.64     62.64      62.64         62.64        62.64     62.64     62.64
- Subtotal                                                            0        110,687   268,385    345,055       351,587      427,184   609,894   716,970
total fuel costs                                                      0        110,687   268,385    345,055       360,728      467,741   672,726   779,802

Operating costs
Untreated Water
- quantity of water (m3)                                              0        34,888     38,038    38,038         38,038       68,740   100,964   102,485
- cost of water ($ / m3)                                             0.80       0.80       0.80      0.80           0.80         0.80      0.80     0.80
- Subtotal                                                            0        27,910     30,430    30,430         30,430       54,992    80,771   81,988
Treated Water
- quantity of water (m3)                                              0           0         0          0            100         13,950    27,700   27,700
- cost of water ($ / m3)                                             2.40       2.40       2.40      2.40           2.40         2.40      2.40     2.40
- Subtotal                                                            0           0         0          0            240         33,480    66,480   66,480
Total water                                                           0        27,910     30,430    30,430         30,670       88,472   147,251   148,468
Electricity
- quantity of electricity (Mwh)                                       0         238        341       341            341          755      1,836     2,504
- cost of electricity ($ / Mwh)                                       58         58         58        58             58          58        58        58
Total electricity                                                     0        13,790     19,805    19,805         19,805       43,773   106,464   145,206
Operating costs
Total operating costs                                                 0        41,700     50,235    50,235         50,475      132,245   253,715   293,674

Maintenance and repair spare part costs
Repair savings
Total repair costs savings                                            0         3,674     7,349      7,349         9,397        42,453    80,585   88,939
Maintenance and repair personnel costs
- maintenance personnel (man-month)                                   0         108        216       216            216          588      1,104     1,656
- salaries of personnel ($)                                         500.00     500.00     500.00    500.00         500.00        500       500      500
total personnel                                                       0        54,000    108,000    108,000       108,000      294,000   552,000   828,089
Total maintenance and repair costs                                    0        57,674    115,349    115,349       117,397      336,453   632,585   917,028

Heat Purchases
 - quantity of purchased heat (GCal/yr)                               0        -3,456     -6,911    -6,911         -6,911       -9,143   -15,359   -19,344
 - heat purchase price                                               18.50      18.50     18.50      18.50         18.50        18.50     18.50     18.50
Purchased heat                                                        0        -63,929   -127,857  -127,857      -127,857      -169,140  -284,141 -357,858

Avoided Investment                                                    0           0         0       41,829        138,840     5,419,064 1,419,985  356,608
Residual Value of decommissioned equipment                            0           0         0          0             0            0         0         0
Residual Value of Investment after 2020

Total Savings                                                         0        146,133   306,112    424,610       539,583     6,186,363 2,694,870 1,989,254

Net cash flow                                                     -1,414,710  -653,517  -1,255,129 -968,768      -240,517     5,760,618 2,592,240 1,989,254
N e t P r e s e n t V a lu e ( d i s o u n t r a t e 1 2 % )                                                   U S $
N P V f u e l c o s t s a v in g s                                                                          3 , 3 3 8 , 1 0 5
N P V w a t e r s a v in g s ( t r e a t e d a n d u n t r e a t e d )                                          6 0 1 , 5 2 7
N P V e le c t r i c i t y s a v i n g s                                                                        5 4 3 , 3 4 8
N P V O & M s a v in g s                                                                                    3 , 4 5 7 , 9 5 7
N P V h e a t p u r c h a s e s                                                                            - 1 , 5 6 0 , 9 0 0
N P V t o t a l c o s t s s a v in g s                                                                    1 0 , 8 2 6 , 1 7 4
N P V                                                                                                       6 , 2 2 4 , 0 1 7




                                                                            - 36 -

Arkhangelsk
All contracts
Value added tax                                       20%


Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
FIRR                                                 22.1%

Total Capital Costs                                7,772,945     US$
Project Start Date                                    1998
Project In-Service Date                               2004
Project Useful Life                                    20       years

Expenditures including VAT
                                                      1998      1999       2000       2001       2002      2003      2004      Total
Total Expenditure in Real Prices in US$            1,697,652   959,580  1,873,488  1,672,054    936,120  510,894    123,156  7,772,945

Savings                                               1998      1999       2000       2001       2002      2003      2004      2005
Fuel Cost
Mazut
- quantity of fuel (ton)                               0          0         0          0          83        369       571       571
- cost of fuel ($ / ton)                            110.00      54.59     54.86      96.67       98.32    105.09    106.71    109.45
- Subtotal                                             0          0         0          0         8,170    38,748    60,952    62,519
Coal
- quantity of fuel (ton)                               0        1,767     4,285      5,509       5,613     6,820     9,736    11,446
- cost of fuel ($ / ton)                             46.21      14.21     15.16      29.87       29.34     31.27     31.75     32.56
- Subtotal                                             0        25,110   64,945     164,522     164,686  213,235    309,118   372,730
total fuel                                             0        25,110   64,945     164,522     172,856  251,983    370,071   435,249

Operating costs
Untreated Water
- quantity of water (m3)                               0        34,888   38,038     38,038      38,038    68,740    100,964   102,485
- cost of water ($ / m3)                              0.57       0.36      0.47       0.48       0.48      0.63       0.66      0.69
 - Subtotal                                            0        12,592   17,831     18,296      18,113   43,359    66,585    70,250
Treated Water
- quantity of water (m3)                               0          0         0          0         100      13,950    27,700    27,700
- cost of water ($ / m3)                              1.66       1.05      1.36       1.39       1.38      1.83       1.91      1.99
- Subtotal                                             0          0         0          0         138      25,518    52,978    55,064
Total water                                            0        12,592   17,831     18,296      18,251    68,877    119,563   125,314
Electricity
- quantity of electricity (MWh)                        0         238       341        341        341        755      1,836     2,504
- cost of electricity ($ / MWh)                      26.70      14.62     19.65      20.00       21.51     25.91     28.57     29.31
Total electricity                                      0        3,475     6,709      6,829       7,344    19,557    52,449    73,374
Total operating costs                                  0        16,068   24,540     25,125      25,595    88,434    172,012   198,689

Maintenance and repair spare part costs
Repair costs
Total repair costs                                     0        4,409     8,819      8,819      11,276    50,943    96,702    106,727
Maintenance and repair personnel costs
- maintenance personnel (man-month)                    0         108       216        216        216        588      1,104     1,656
- salaries of personnel ($)                         211.32      99.80    114.84     117.23      132.58    144.73    157.38    170.12
total personnel                                        0        10,778   24,806     25,322      28,638    85,102    173,744   281,746
Total maintenance and repair costs                     0        15,187   33,625     34,141      39,915   136,045    270,446   388,472

Heat Purchases
 - quantity of purchased heat (GCal/yr)                0        -3,456    -6,911     -6,911     -6,911    -9,143    -15,359   -19,344
 - heat purchase price                               18.50       5.85      4.42       7.20       8.63      10.50     11.43     11.72
Purchased heat                                         0       -20,203   -30,555    -49,761     -59,624   -96,033  -175,544  -226,771

Avoided Investment                                     0          0         0       50,195      166,608  6,502,877 1,703,982  427,930
Residual Value of decommissioned equipment             0          0         0          0           0         0         0         0
Residual Value of Investment after 2020

Total Savings                                          0        36,162   92,555     224,221     345,350  6,883,306 2,340,966 1,223,569

Net cash flow                                      -1,697,652  -923,418 -1,780,933 -1,447,833  -590,770  6,372,411 2,217,810 1,223,569
Net Present Value (disount rate 10.5%)                                                      U S $
NPV fuel cost savings                                                                     2,331,233
NPV water savings (treated and untreated)                                                    605,658
N P V e lectricity savings                                                                   389,777
N P V O & M s a v ings                                                                    2,248,959
NPV heat purchases                                                                       -1,255,802
NPV total costs savings                                                                 10,223,946
N P V                                                                                     4,481,572




                                                            - 37 -

Arkhangelsk
Project Summary

                                         Total            Arkhangelsk             Arkhangelsk        Arkhangelsk     Component4          Component5            Component6
                                                                                                      Contract
                                                                                                 EEP/ARC/HEM042Aand    Contract                          ContractEEP/ARC/BFE043
                                                  ContractEEP/ARC/HEM042C ContractEEP/ARC/HEM042B EEP/ARC/HEM042D   EEP/ARC/OMA038 ContractEEP/ARC/BFE039 andEEP/ARC/PWS045
                                          US$                US$                     US$                US$              US$                US$                    US$
InvestmentCosts
WithoutVAT                             6,477,454           701,207                 108,485            4,046,084         163,283            474,803               983,592


                                       7,772,945           841,448                 130,182            4,855,301         195,939            569,764               1,180,310

InvestmentCost withVATandCustomDuties


InternalRateofReturn
EIRR                                    31.3%               52.8%                  273.5%              14.7%            88.7%              14.9%                  37.7%

FIRR                                    22.1%               28.5%                   54.8%               8.7%            51.7%              12.3%                  32.4%



NetPresentValuefromEconomicAnalysis
(discountrate12%)                         US$                US$                     US$                US$              US$                US$                    US$
NPVfuelcostsavings                     3,338,105          1,272,978               1,130,672            47,931           647,570            73,945                165,009
NPVwatersavings(treatedanduntreated)    601,527            18,968                   30,615             1,685            134,606             1,941                413,712
NPVelectricitysavings                   543,348            356,299                  73,069             26,788           41,223               0                   45,969
NPVO&Msavings                          3,457,957          1,492,994                700,666            112,576             0                15,601                1,136,120
NPVheatpurchases                       -1,560,900          -737,068               -776,646            -47,186             0                  0                      0
NPVtotalcostssavings                   10,826,174         2,404,170               1,158,376           3,230,924       1,091,706            456,478               2,484,521



NetPresentValuefromFinancialAnalysis
(discountrate10.5%)                       US$                US$                     US$                US$              US$                US$                    US$
NPVfuelcostsavings                     2,331,233           995,423                 670,489             40,146           349,536            83,767                191,872
NPVwatersavings(treatedanduntreated)    605,658            20,973                   27,204             1,925            105,044             1,974                448,537
NPVelectricitysavings                   389,777            273,351                  41,368             21,902           18,898               0                   34,258
NPVO&Msavings                          2,248,959          1,032,829                337,787             82,317             0                21,543                774,482
NPVheatpurchases                       -1,255,802          -684,957               -524,966            -45,879             0                  0                      0
NPVtotalcostssavings                   10,223,946         1,637,619                551,882            3,456,919         829,349            527,278               2,465,599




                                                                               - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09-10/1992                 1    Senior Energy Economist (TM)
              03/1993                    2    Senior Energy Economist (TM),
                                              Consultant
              06/1993                    8    Senior Energy Economist (TM),
              (pre-appraisal)                 Economist, Energy Specialist
                                              (engineering), Energy Specialist
                                              (energy conservation), Senior
                                              Counsel, Consultant (financial
                                              analysis), Consultant
                                              (institutional analysis),
                                              Consultant (environmental
                                              issues)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03-04/1994               13     Senior Energy Economist
              (appraisal)                     (TM), Energy Economist
                                              (financial analysis),
                                              Economist (financial
                                              analysis), Economist (risk
                                              analysis), Energy Specialists
                                              (2) (engineering),
                                              Environmental Specialist**,
                                              Senior Counsel, Consultant
                                              (procurement), Consultant
                                              (environmental issues),
                                              Consultants (2) (institutional
                                              analysis), Consultant (energy
                                              conservation)
              05/1994                    3    Senior Energy Economist (TM),
              (post-appraisal)                Energy Economist, Consultant
              10-11/1994                 2    Senior Energy Economist (TM),
              (post-appraisal)                Energy Economist
              02-03/1995                 8    Division Chief, Senior Energy
              (negotiations at                Economist (TM), Energy
              Bank HQ)                        Economist, Senior Energy
                                              Specialist, Senior Counsel,
                                              Senior Disbursement Officer,
                                              Consultant (engineering),
                                              Consultant (district heating)

 Supervision
              06/1995                    2    Senior Energy Economist              S               S
                                              (TM), Energy Economist
              12/1995                    2    Senior Energy Economist (TM),        U               S
                                              Engineer
              06/1995                    9    Senior Energy Economist (TM),        U               U



                                               - 39 -

                Energy Economist (financial
                analysis), Heating Specialist
                (engineer), Environmental
                Specialist, Energy Specialist, IT
                Specialist, Operations Officer **,
                Disbursement Oficcer **,
                Procurement Specialist **
11/1996       7 Senior Energy Economist (TM),        U    U
                Energy Economist, Heating
                Specialist (engineer), Financial
                Analyst, Environmental
                Specialist, Operations Officer**,
                Disbursement Specialist**
02/1997       3 Senior Energy Economist (TM),        U    U
                Energy Economist, Operations
                Officer**
06/1997       5 Senior Energy Economist (TM),        U    U
                Energy Economist, Financial
                Analyst, Heating Specialist
                (engineer), Operations Officer**
10/1997       5 Senior Energy Economist (PTL),       U    U
                Senior Oil&Gas Specialist,
                Energy Economist, Gas
                Specialist, Operations Officer**
01-02/1998    5 Senior Energy Economist (PTL),       S    U
                Energy Economist (financial
                analyst), Heating Specialist
                (engineer), Operations Officer**,
                Operations Analyst
03/1998*      4 Prinicpal Oil&Gas Specialist,        S    U
                Gas Specialist, Operations
                Officer**, Procurement
                Specialist**
05/1998       3 Senior Energy Economist (PTL),       S    U
                Heating Specialist (engineer),
                Operations Officer**
10/1998*        Prinicpal Oil&Gas Specialist,        S    U
                Gas Specialist, Operations
                Officer**
11/1998       7 Prinicipal Energy Economist          S    S
                (PTL), Energy Economist
                (financial analyst), Energy
                Specialist, Institutional
                Development Specialist,
                Operations Officer**, Consultant
                (heating and engineering)
12/1998       2 Prinicipal Energy Economist          S    S
                (PTL), Operations Officer**
01/1999       4 Prinicipal Energy Economist          S    S
                (PTL), Principal Oil&Gas
                Specialist, Energy Economist
                Operations Officer**
11/1999       2 Senior Energy Economist (PTL),       S    S



                - 40 -

                                                Operations Officer**
             11/2000                        4   Senior Energy Economist (PTL),      U    S
                                                Operations Officer**,
                                                Procurement Specialist**,
                                                Consultant (heating and
                                                engineering)**
             06/2001                        2   Senior Energy Economist (PTL),      S    S
                                                Operations Officer**
             9-10/2001                      5   Senior Energy Economist (PTL),      S    S
                                                Energy Specialist**,
                                                Procurement Specialist**,
                                                Consultant (financial analysis),
                                                Consultant (heating and
                                                engineering)**
             12/2001                        6   Senior Energy Economist (PTL),      U    U
                                                Principal Oil&Gas Specialist,
                                                Financial Management
                                                Officer**, Energy Specialist**,
                                                Procurement Specialist**,
                                                Consultant (heating and
                                                engineering)**
             03/2002                        3   Senior Energy Economist (PTL),      U    U
                                                Energy Specialist**, Consultant
                                                (heating and engineering)**
             06-07/2002                     6   Senior Energy Economist (PTL),      U    U
                                                Senior Procurement Specialist**,
                                                Financial Management
                                                Officer**, Consultant (heating
                                                and engineering), Consultant
                                                (heating and engineering)**,
                                                Consultant (institutional
                                                issues)**
             10/2002                        6   Senior Energy Economist (PTL),      U    U
                                                Lead Energy Specialist, Senior
                                                Procurement Specialist**,
                                                Energy Specialist**, Financial
                                                Management Officer**,
                                                Consultant (heating and
                                                engineering)**
             02/2003                        7   Lead Energy Specialist (PTL),
                                                Senior Procurement Specialist**,
                                                Energy Specialist, Financial
                                                Management Officer**,
                                                Disbursement Officer**,
                                                Consulatnat (heating and
                                                engineering)**, Consultant
                                                (institutional issues)**

ICR


Missions marked (*) supervised Gas Sector Studies only.
Staff marked (**) was based in Moscow.




                                                - 41 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                           843,926.77
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                          768,563.83
  ICR
  Total                                                              1,612,490.60
Note: The amount for Indentification/Preparation includes Appraisal/Negotiation costs; Supervision
includes ICR costs.




                                                  - 42 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M    N     NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M    N     NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M    N     NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M    N     NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M    N     NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M    N     NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M    N     NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M    N     NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M    N     NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M    N     NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M    N     NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M    N     NA
Notes:

l The achievement of the physical objectives was rated M (Modest) because only four out of ten
   sub-projects were implemented, and only US$16.6 million (i.e., 29%) out of US$58 million were spent.
   Physical outputs of the four completed sub-projects were substantial, though.

l The achievement of the institutional development objectives for the four regions where the project was
   implemented were substantial. However, impact of the gas sector studies was modest, and the project
   was not implemented in six regions where it was planned. Thus, overall achievement of the institutional
   development objectives was rated as M.




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS       S      U       HU
   Supervision                                                HS       S      U       HU
   Overall                                                    HS       S      U       HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS       S      U       HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS       S      U       HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS       S      U       HU
   Overall                                                    HS       S      U       HU
Implementing agency performance                             S (for the Energy Efficiency Investments)
                                                            U (for the Gas Sector Studies)




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1.    Project SAR of April 11, 1995;

 2.    Loan Agreement of September 29, 1996

 3.    Sub-project Feasibility Studies:
 (i)   Ryazan (July 13, 1997);
 (ii) Semenov (June 2, 1997);
 (iii) Kaliningrad (January 1998);
 (iv) Archangelsk (July, 1998).

 4.    Sub-project Benefits Assessment Reports from the Borrower:
 (i)   Ryazan (December 17, 2002);
 (ii) Semenov (January 20, 2003 and January 24, 2003);
 (iii) Kaliningrad (February 3, 2003)
 (iv) Archangelsk (October 31, 2002, and December 15, 2002);

 5.    Details of the IRR Calculation;

 6.    Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (original);

 7.    Comments by the Borrower on the draft Bank ICR;

 8.    Project Map




                                           - 45 -

Additional Annex 8. Project Completion Report Prepared by the Borrower

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                    OF THE MINISTRY OF ENERGY OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                               FOR THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT

                                          1. Project Components

IBRD Loan No. 3876 RU to finance the Energy Efficiency Project was extended under the Loan
Agreement between the Russian Federation and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, dated September 29, 1996. This Agreement was approved by Russian Government
Resolution No. 1506, dated December 19, 1996.

In accordance with the data of the Russian Ministry of Energy, today all assets of the heating facilities in
the country are ageing intensively: more than 30% of cogeneration equipment, 35% of equipment of large
boiler houses, 50% of equipment of small boiler houses and heat generators have fully served their term;
60% of existing heat networks are completely worn out.

The Energy Efficiency Project, which is a pilot project and is important from the social point of view, was
intended to seek solutions of the aforesaid issues.

The main objective of the Project is to increase the efficiency of using fuel and energy resources, use them
in a rational way and ensure reliable supply of heat to the population and production facilities as well as to
test financial and legal mechanisms for using loan funds to rehabilitate district heating systems.

It was assumed that successful implementation of the Project would make it possible to raise additional
funds of foreign and Russian investors with a view of upgrading heat supply systems, restructure systems
of their management, and reduce social tension caused by higher tariffs for heat.

The Project consists of two components:

One component (Part A) provided technical assistance and envisaged studies aimed to support a reform
program in the gas sector as a whole and in the gas distribution sub-sector, in particular.

The program for gas sector studies under this Loan component (the Study Program) was specified in the
Agreement, dated February 5, 1998, between the Russian Ministry of Finance that signed the aforesaid
Loan Agreement on behalf of the Russian Federation and the Russian Ministry of Energy as an
Implementing Agency under the Loan.

A need to develop and implement the Study Program was determined by the situation in the gas distribution
sub-sector and the gas sector as a whole at that time (not well defined schemes of privatization of the gas
distribution sub-sector; inadequate efficiency of state regulation; non-payment crisis), inadequate
development of the sector reform issues, a need to analyze world experience as well as difficulties in
arrangement and financing of relevant activities on an independent basis without impact of vested interests.

Soon after the launch of the Loan implementation Presidential Decree No. 426, dated April 28, 1997, was
adopted; it contained a program of structural reforms in natural monopolies up to 2000. Guidelines of this
program became the basis of detailed proposals implemented under studies of this component.



                                                   - 46 -

Study Program.

The agreed Study Program included the following studies:

l The status of the gas distribution sub-sector, including its interrelation with gas production and gas
    transmission sub-sectors, taking into account economic interests of consumers in Russia (No. 1)
l Study of natural gas pricing, with a special focus given to tariffs and prices in the gas distribution
    sub-sector (No. 2)
l Reorganization and strengthening of enterprises in the gas distribution sub-sector (No. 3)
l Regulation of the gas sector, with a special focus given to gas distribution (No. 4)
l Current status and outlooks of liquefied gas supplies in interrelation with overall demand in gas as a
    fuel (No.5)
l Current status and proposals for improvement of the regulatory and technical documentation system in
    the gas distribution sub-sector (No. 6)
l Development of proposals for improvement of the law and regulatory framework in the gas distribution
    sub-sector (No. 7)
l Creation of the information and analytical system in the gas distribution sub-sector in interaction with
    other components of the gas supply chain in Russia (No. 8).
l Coordination, supervision and advisory support to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy under the Technical
    Assistance Component of the Loan (No. 9).

The second component (Part B) is an investment component and consists of the following subcomponents:

l Investments in improving energy efficiency in various cities of Russia that were implemented by
    regional implementing agencies (sub-borrowers).
l Technical assistance to support the Project implementation.


The following factors were taken into consideration when this Project component was designed and
implemented.

The financial and economic mechanism is based on the following preconditions.

Currently up to 50% of costs of heating enterprises to supply heat to the population are subsidized from
local budgets. Up to 35-40% of funds from local budgets are spent to supply heat to the population and the
budget sector consumers.

More than one third of energy resources used for heating and domestic hot water is not used efficiently. The
fuel component in the production cost of heat is 60-70%. It is impossible to conduct a large-scale housing
and communal services sector reform without drastic technical upgrade of district heating systems.

The financial arrangement of the loan does not envisage increase in prices for the population for the heating
and domestic hot water services, but reduction in actual costs automatically leads to increase in percentage
of full recovery charges paid by the population for heat and domestic hot water consumption up to 60-85%.

Most of the subprojects are based on replacement of worn-out boiler equipment that fires liquid and solid
fuel by automated gas boiler units (fuel savings up to 50% and operational cost savings up to 60-70%);
partial replacement and upgrade of worn-out heat mains (heat savings up to 10% accompanied by increase
in reliability); rehabilitation of central heating substations and consumer feeders (heat savings up to 15%


                                                      - 47 -

accompanied by better heat comfort conditions).

Therefore, the implementation of this Project component in the participating cities allows the cities to
reduce consumption of fuel and heat by 25-30% and at the same time improve heat comfort in housing,
reduce heat production cost and budget subsidies by 15-20%.

The Russian Ministry of Energy believes that objectives and tasks of the Project were well designed.

2. Organizational Aspects of the Project Implementation

In accordance with Russian Government Resolution No. 1506, dated December 19, 1996, the Russian
Ministry of Energy, the Russian Ministry of Finance and the Russian Ministry of Economic Development
and Trade were made responsible for supervising the Project implementation. The Resolution also set forth
that in respect of the investment component, the Russian Ministry of Finance and the Russian Ministry of
Energy should enter into agreements with administrations of the Russian Federation regions and city
heating enterprises that describe terms and conditions of lending, use and repayment of the loan proceeds.

The loan proceeds in the amount of $58 mln were on-lent to city heating enterprises, i.e. Project
participants, for a specified term and on a repayable basis (principal and interest). Repayment of the
principal debt, payment of interest and commitment fees area made using own funds obtained as a result of
reduction in production costs.

With a view of implementing the Loan Agreement, a Project Interagency Working Group was set up in
January 1997. It comprised representatives of the Russian Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the Russian
Ministry of Finance, the Russian Ministry of Economic Development, and the Russian Energy Saving
Foundation. Later by directive of MoEn No. 93, dated March 28, 2001, an Interagency Supervisory Board
was set up to implement the investment component of the Project.

The Ministry of Fuel and Energy entered into the Agency Agreement, dated August 27, 1997, with a
subsidiary of the Russian Energy Saving Foundation, i.e. Close Joint Stock Company Investenergoeffect,
and subsequently amended it into three-sided agreement No. 01-01-06/27-640, dated October 25, 2000,
between the Russian Ministry of Finance, the Russian Ministry of Energy and Investenergoeffect. In
accordance with the aforesaid agreement, the Russian Ministry of Fuel and Energy authorized
Investenergoeffect to act as the Project implementing agency and to undertake legal and actual actions on
behalf of the Russian Ministry of Energy.

3. Project Implementation Results

Under technical assistance, three studies have been completed (Part A).

Study 2 on natural gas pricing, with a special focus given to tariffs and prices in the gas distribution
sub-sector. The contract with consultants was signed in April 1998, and the study was completed at the end
of 1999. A significant amount of analytical work was conducted taking into account experience of foreign
countries and specific features of Russian gas distribution. The output of the study was used in preparing
methodological guidelines for calculating gas transmission tariffs for gas distribution companies in Russia.
Today on the basis of these guidelines, individual tariffs for services have been introduced for all main gas
distribution companies of Russia. As a whole, the study conducted made an important contribution to the
development of the state regulation system of prices and tariffs in the gas distribution sub-sector.



                                                    - 48 -

Study 1 on the status of the gas distribution sub-sector, including its interrelation with gas production and
gas transmission sub-sectors, taking into account economic interests of consumers in Russia was started in
August 1999. Consultants submitted the last version of the Final Report that incorporated results of
discussion in the Russian Ministry of Energy and other ministries, agencies and organizations. Intermediary
documents of the study were quite widely used in 2000-2001 by the Russian Government, ministries and
agencies during preparation of the Action Plan of the Russian Government for 2000-2001 in the gas sector,
the Concept for the gas market, and the reform of the gas sector, as a whole.

Study 3 on reorganization and strengthening of enterprises in the gas distribution sub-sector. The contract
with consultants was signed in October 1999. The activity was completed in mid-2001. The study includes
a comprehensive and multifactor analysis of the economic and financial situation, production operations,
corporate and functional status of gas distribution companies, the role of state agencies in the sub-sector
regulation. Foreign experience of the gas sector regulation was studied. Major issues impeding efficient
operation of gas distribution companies and resolution of state regulation tasks were identified. The study
was used to work out recommendations for addressing problems of the Russian gas distribution sub-sector
and improving the regulatory and legal framework of gas distribution; these recommendations are aimed to
improve the situation in gas distribution companies, restore state governance in the sub-sector, normalize
relations between gas distribution companies and suppliers and consumers.

The Ministry of Energy and other bodies of power and companies use these recommendations of the study
in their regular operational work. Results of the study were approved by Gasprom, representatives of the
Russian Ministry of Economic Development and the FEC of Russia.

Study 9 on coordination, supervision and advisory support to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy under the
Technical Assistance Component of the Loan. The activity under this study was conducted starting from
March 1997. The work of coordination consultants was carried out in two main areas: comprehensive
assistance in conducting all studies under the Program and advisory support to the Ministry under activities
of the Project. The contract with coordination consultants terminated on January 1, 2000. Based on the
results of activities in implementation of which the coordination consultants were directly involved, the
following documents were approved: methodological guidelines for calculating gas transmission tariffs for
gas distribution companies of Russia, Guidelines for state regulation of prices and tariffs in gas supply,
Rules of gas supply to consumers of the Russian Federation and a number of other documents. The
consultants prepared a significant amount of analytical documents on technical assistance areas (in
accordance with the Ministry requests).

The overall amount of funds allocated under the Program for studies is $9,395,000. The total amount of
contracts concluded was $4,315,900. Activities under contracts were completed and financed in the amount
of $4,184,900.

Implementation of Regional Investment Subprojects (Part B)

At the initial stage of the Project implementation, potential participants did not have finalized feasibility
studies and subloan agreements approved in accordance with the established procedures. Therefore, the
Project Implementation Unit together with potential Project participants undertook efforts to prepare
feasibility studies and conclude subloan agreements.

Grant funds were used to prepare, appraise the following feasibility studies that were approved by the
IBRD: Ryazan ($757,000); Kaliningrad ($5,346,000); Semenov, Nizhny Novgorod Region ($9,480,000);
Samara ($3,500,000); Saratov ($5,000,000); Archangelsk ($6,120,000); Rostov ($5,500,000); Kaluga


                                                   - 49 -

($4,300,000); Omsk ($10,000,000); Tobolsk ($10,300,000), Gorodets ($2,500,000), with the total amount
of loans exceeding $62,8 mln, as well as an additional feasibility study for Semenov.

The Project could be implemented only in Ryazan, Kaliningrad, Semenov, and Archangelsk, with the total
amount of loan funds about $21.4 mln. A set of planned activities was carried out in these cities. More
detailed information about activities carried out is provided further in the text.

As for other cities, for various reasons participants refused to implement feasibility studies they had
developed. The main reason was a financial crisis of 1998.

Ryazan

In accordance with the approved feasibility study under the sub-project, it was planned to install 35 heat
meters; to purchase, install and commission six automatic control devices and telemechanics for six central
heating substations as well as commission the first stage of the automatic control system for the Heating
Network Enterprise.

The first two activities were completed in full, and the last subcomponent was implemented by the
enterprise using its own funds. Therefore, the feasibility study is implemented in full. It was planned to
utilize $757,000 of loan funds, actually $497,000 were disbursed.

Semenov, Nizhny Novgorod Region

The subproject envisaged an integrated rehabilitation of the district heating system in Semenov with the use
of loan proceeds. In accordance with the agreed feasibility study, the subproject included purchase and
commissioning of more than 20 gas fired automated boiler houses with a total output of 70.5 megawatts;
up to 10 km (two-pipe system) of heat networks; installation of individual heating substations in six budget
sector facilities; purchase and commissioning of a telemechanics system to control operation of heat
facilities of the city. It was planned to utilize $9,480,000 of loan funds to undertake the aforesaid activities.
As a result of the project implementation, it was planned to obtain fuel savings up to 35,700 tons of
reference fuel and cost savings of up to $2,710,000.

As of today, all planned activities have been fulfilled, with the exception of the telemechanics system which
could not be purchased due to financial difficulties the sub-borrower was experiencing and which are not
linked directly with the implementation of this Project.

For example, 30 container boiler houses with a total output of 116.7 megawatts were purchased. The
sub-borrower proposes to purchase the telemechanics system to control all energy facilities of the city using
its own funds.

In total eight contracts worth of $7,578,811 were concluded, $7,321,000 were disbursed by the Project
Closing Date.

Activities conducted helped reduce production cost of heat almost by twofold, to increase quality of heat
supply in the city. The number of complaints of the population concerning unsatisfactory quality of heat
supply reduced by roughly 2.5 times.

The following facilities were installed for the first time in the city during the Project implementation:




                                                       - 50 -

- fully automated gas-fired boiler houses that operate without constant presence of operational personnel;
- pre-insulated heating pipelines with polyurethane insulation;
- instrumentation for the tuning of energy equipment, hydraulic conditions of heat network and energy
audit;
- meters and control instrumentation for heating and domestic hot water for budget sector enterprises.

Activities conducted create conditions for reforming the housing and communal services sector of the city
and shifting to non-subsidized operational arrangement of communal enterprises.

It should be specifically noted that all equipment purchased meets modern technical conditions. At the same
time roughly 20% less of funds were spent on purchase of equipment against the plan. Savings were
obtained through using bidding procedures of the IBRD and due to good quality of bidding documentation.

Experience gained during this sub-project implementation is recommended for rollout in various regions
and for use during rehabilitation of municipal district heating and domestic hot water systems/

At the first All-Russian exhibition on Energy Savings in Russian Regions this sub-project received the first
prize in the competition of the best energy saving project and was awarded a diploma.

Kaliningrad

Fourteen contracts in the total amount of $5,365,000 were concluded under this subproject. Equipment
purchased includes, among other devices, water meters, heat meters, natural gas meters, technological
equipment of the automated gas-fired boiler house, eleven fully automated central heating substations, 185
automated individual heating substations, 16 km of plastic pre-insulated domestic hot water pipelines, the
automated control system for the RTS Severnaya, a dispatch system for a number of city energy facilities
as well as a mobile repairs and diagnostics laboratory.

A set of equipment for determining composition of flue gases at the boiler exit was purchased under the
project.

It was for the first time in the Russian Federation that a large boiler house was equipped with emission
control systems and fully met EU and Russian standards.

It should be specifically noted that under this Project it was practically the first time in Russia that so many
plastic pre-insulated pipelines were used for distribution networks of domestic hot water (around 16 km).
Such a solution allows the company to significantly reduce leaks of hot water and increase the service life
of pipelines by several times.

All equipment purchased was installed at operational sites and commissioned.

An indirect effect should be noted: today the population is coming to understand a need and utility of using
borrowed funds to rehabilitate municipal district heating systems. At the same time quality of heat supply is
significantly improved, with the tariff unchanged. It creates significant preconditions for conducting a
reform of the housing and communal services sector.

It should be also noted that experience gained by the sub-borrower during the implementation of this
sub-project creates preconditions for implementation of other energy saving projects.




                                                     - 51 -

Archangelsk

Eight contracts in the amount of $4.6 mln dollars were concluded under this subproject. As of January
2003, a two-pipe heat network 0.8 km long; heat mains, diameter 1000 mm, 10 km long; boiler equipment
with a total output of around 10 MW as well as a mobile diagnostic laboratory were commissioned.

General information about actual economic effect, fuel savings and reduction in CO2 emissions in all
participating cities of the Energy Efficiency Project is provided in the table.

      Sub-borrower          Actual annual economic      Actual fuel savings    Actual reduction in CO
                                                                                                     2
                             effect from activities                            emissions, 1000 tones
                                  conducted            1000 tons of reference
                                                                 fuel
                                     $1000
Kaliningrad                                  1,072.6                      27.5                    47.1
Ryazan                                         424.4                       1.3                     2.1
Semenov                                      1,973.6                      25.8                    30.7
Archangelsk                                    299.8                       2.8                     7.5
Total                                        3,770.4                      57.4                    87.4

Based on the aforesaid, we can say that technical objectives of the project implementation in Semenov,
Ryazan, and Kaliningrad are mostly achieved. As for Archangelsk, by the Loan Closing Date some
equipment had not been commissioned, mostly due to a lack of local counterpart funds, but there are
objective reasons to state that all activities in this city will be implemented within this year. The Russian
Ministry of Energy places these facilities under special control through agencies of the State Energy
Inspectorate.

Procurement arrangements under the Project and results of introduction of the practice of
competition-based procurement.

l Percentage share of procurement under the Project conducted on a competitive basis (in % to the total
    cost of goods, works and services procured under the Project) is 100%;
l Participating rate of Russian contractors in tenders under the Project and, consequently, the percentage
    share of Russian contractors that won tenders (in % to the number of tenders conducted) exceeds 35%;
l A reduction in the price level obtained through bidding compared with the estimated price (in % and
    million USD) is around 20% or $4,360 mln.

Technical assistance to support the Project implementation

Nine contracts were fulfilled under this part and $1,036,000 were disbursed. The funds were used to pay
for work of the consulting company, training of regional participants of the Project, purchase of computers
for participating cities and payment for audits.

4. Priority Areas of Using Results of the Work

Over the past years the situation in the municipal district heating system significantly deteriorated. It was
especially clear during severe winter of 2002/2003. In many cities of Russia the district heating systems
were damaged and in a number of regions they were practically shut down.



                                                      - 52 -

In this situation experience gained during the implementation of this Project becomes especially relevant.
Use of borrowed funds to rehabilitate district heating facilities of cities is of great significance.

The Russian Ministry of Energy proposes to step up activities to roll out positive experience of the Project
implementation.

In a number of regions the implementation of the Project initiated attraction of commercial funds to
implement energy efficiency programs.

Using experience gained, the administration of Nizhny Novgorod jointly with the Nizhny Novgorod
Technical University and the Regional Energy Saving Foundation has developed and is successfully
implementing more than nine regional programs with use of financing from different sources, including
borrowed funds. This experience is being rolled out in other regions too.

Experience gained during the Project implementation allowed the Administration of Kaliningrad to conduct
successful negotiations with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to rehabilitate the
municipal district heating system.

Experience gained during the Project implementation will be used during implementation of other
investment projects of the Russian Ministry of Energy.

Lessons Learned

1. Terms of Loan Agreement No. 3876 RU placed Russian suppliers/manufacturers in unfavorable
conditions compared to foreign suppliers/manufacturers. In spite of domestic preferences provided to local
tender participants, we have to note that there were a whole number of unresolved issues, namely:

l The IBRD does not have a clear agreed approach to issuing letters of credit for Russian suppliers. The
    only possibility for issuing such letters of credit is the use of funds from the Special Account, which
    leads to a situation when money is frozen in such accounts for a long period of time (which is not
    encouraged by the IBRD either), when it is impossible to use special accounts for other purposes and it
    also leads to significant risks both for the buyer and the seller. The IBRD does not issue special
    commitment for such letters of credits.

l All foreign expenditures on supply of goods, regardless of the profile and degree of participation of a
    foreign supplier in the manufacture of goods supplied are financed 100%. In case of local suppliers, it
    is only supply of goods on ex-factory cost terms that are financed 100%; only 70% all other local
    expenditures are financed from the loan proceeds.

    Local transportation for Russian suppliers is not financed from the IBRD loan funds, while foreign
    supplies under CIP (final point of destination) are 100% financed from the loan proceeds. It leads to
    disruption in cofinancing, as it increases budget payments, which are difficult to reallocate quickly.

l The IBRD does not have a clear agreed and effective mechanism for supplying goods from abroad by
    Russian suppliers. In such cases the issue of implementing customs procedures by the buyer or the
    issue of payments to suppliers/manufacturers causes significant difficulties.

2. A lack of skilled specialists capable of providing a rapid assessment of the situation and proposing


                                                    - 53 -

effective ways of addressing problem situations concerning logistics of goods, resolution of customs issues,
legal processing and support of contracts and amendments to contracts. Limited resources of the PIU in
implementing supervision over supplies of equipment locally and its commissioning.

3. Costs and Financing

Originally total costs of the Project were estimated as 70 mln in dollar equivalent. It was planned to
disburse $60 mln under Part B of the Project. Some costs related to technical assistance under Part B of the
Project amounted to $2 mln, Goods accounted for $47.5 mln, and unallocated amount was $10 mln.
Subsequently the loan amount was reduced to $30 mln. Out of $30 mln $25.6 mln were to be allocated
under Part B of the Project, including $1.36 mln for technical assistance under Part B of the Project,
$19.223 mln for Goods, and $0.6 mln for PIU operational costs.

As of the Loan Closing Date, $18.5 mln were disbursed under part B, i.e. 96% of funds allocated,
including $16.6 mln for Goods, i.e. 86% of funds allocated.

4. Project Implementation Supervision

The Russian Ministry of Energy, the Russian Ministry of Finance, and the Russian Ministry of Economic
Development, the FCPF and the IBRD conducted regular supervision over the Project implementation.

In 1999-2000 the Ministry relaxed control over the Project implementation, this led to its suspension. It
created certain difficulties for sub-borrowers and delays in implementation of planned activities. In
September 2000 the Project management arrangement was restructured, after which the situation went back
to normal. There were periodical delays in approval of operational budgets.

5. Conclusions

The Russian Ministry of Energy believes that objectives and tasks of the Project were well defined. All
works and activities included into terms of reference and feasibility studies under concluded consulting
contracts and sub-loans were mostly fulfilled.

Project implementation experience demonstrated that in case the work is well organized its results are
extremely important.

In the course of implementation of such projects financed by international financial institutions and
implemented by the Ministry, a key role in overall management and supervision over the project must be
assigned to an interagency supervisory board.

The most efficient and rational arrangement of the Project implementation envisages establishment of the
interagency supervisory board that carries out overall supervision, a competent project implementation unit
for management and monitoring of implementation of all contracts. It is advisable that consultants'
involvement be limited to expert and specialized activities.

Before subprojects are implemented, it is necessary that all procedures related to the Project
implementation be reviewed and approved.

Adequate and timely local cofinancing is a key issue for successful project implementation, as it has a
direct impact on the project performance.


                                                   - 54 -

- 55 -

