LOAN NUMBER 3876 RU
Loan Agreement
(Energy Efficiency Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated SETEEkEE -J ,1996


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3876 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             ,ePTC-A-C&"                  1996, between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
produced in, or ser rices supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII
of the charter of the United Nations."
(c)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (1) and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "Energy Efficiency Sub-project" means a specific energy efficiency
program of an Executing Agency intended to be carried out by such Executing Agency
utilizing the proceeds of a Subsidiary Loan;
(b)    "Executing Agency" means any system of district heating or combined
heat and power plants or other enterprises as may be agreed with the Bank, in the territory
of the Borrower in accordance with the criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement,
which shall have been accepted for participation in accordance with Section 3.02 of this
Agreement;
(c)    "MFE" means the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the Borrower;
(d)    "RESF" means the Russian Energy Saving Foundation;
(e)    "Special Accounts" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(f)    "Subsidiary Loan" means any loan provided to an Executing Agency for
Energy Efficiency Sub-project, pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(g)    "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement which shall have
been entered into by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement with an
Executing Agency, in respect of an Energy Efficiency Sub-project involving such an
Executing Agency, as the same agreement may be amende from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall have an
aggregate value equivalent to the amount of seventy million dollars ($70,000,000), being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable


﻿-3-
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and
other charges on the Loan.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project,
respectively, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the respective Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal
to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
(c)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum,
of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the
Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
(a) of this Section.


﻿-4-
(iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of
a calendar year.
(d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as
follows:
"(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
during such Interest Period."
"(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, Jul y 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A
of the Project through MFE and Part B of the Project through RESF with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for such Parts of the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out Part B of the
Project, and unless the Bank shall otherwise agree:


﻿-5-
(a)    solicit and approve proposals from candidate agencies in accordance with
the eligibility criteria and procedures for approval for Energy Efficiency Sub-projects set
forth or referred to in Schedules 5 and 6 to this Agreement;
(b)    cause the Executing Agencies to carry out their respective Energy
Efficiency Sub-projects in accordance with the same eligibility criteria and the terms of
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out by such Executing Agencies of their
respective activities under the Energy Efficiency Sub-projects;
(c)    make available to each such Executing Agency the amount of financing
required for such Energy Efficiency Sub-projects, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and such Executing Agency, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without
limitation, those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(d)    exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereafter.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of the efficient carrying out of the Project and
ensuring the effective supervision of the execution of the Energy Efficiency Sub-projects,
and without limitation on the provisions of Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause an agreement to be entered between MFE and RESF concerning the
carrying out of their respective responsibilities connected with the carrying out of Part B of
the Project.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
for the future operation of the Project;
(b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods
and consultants' services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30, 1997, carry out a study of the
appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the gas distribution sub-sector; and (b) by
December 31, 1997, prepare a satisfactory action plan, in consultation with the Bank, to
improve the regulatory framework for the gas distribution sub-sector.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Parts A and B of the Project or any
part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accourns referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;


﻿(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representative to examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statement of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Executing Agencies to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Executing Agencies.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause Executing Agencies to:
(i)    have their records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles  consistently  applied, by  independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than :.x (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified
copies of their financial statements for such year as so audited;
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. For the purpose of administering Part B of the Project, the Borrower
shall ensure payment of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of the amounts disbursed and
outstanding for energy efficiency investernents under Part B.1 of the Project to RESF under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-8-
Section 4.04. Once the number of Subsidiary Loans exceeds ten. the Borrower
shall select a bank satisfactory to the Bank and enter into an arrangement, containing terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with such a bank to manage and administer the
repayment of the Subsidiary Loans.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)    Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or
grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(ii)    any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)    Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to
the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i)    such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and
(ii)    adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister or the Deputy Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
103097 Moscow
Ilyinka Street 9
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-10-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ByS1VLA-J7)1j41k P07-PAA1I
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /SA J0uthNorize Rep r/enIt
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Categorv                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Part A of the Proiect
(1) Technical assistance            10,000,000           100%
Part B of the Proiect
(2) Goods                           47,500,000           100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally
(3) Technical                         2,000,000          100%
assistance
(4) Unallocated                      10,500,000
TOTAL                       70,000,000


﻿- 12-
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of
any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied ftom the territory of the Borrower: provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditure in such currency for
such goods or services shall deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)    payments for expenditures under Category (2) of this Schedule to finance
an Energy Efficiency Sub-project under any Subsidiary Loan, until the Bank shall have
communicated its acceptance to the Borrower of evidence that a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower
and the Executing Agency concerned in respect of such Subsidiary Loan.
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and services not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the efficiency of energy use in Russia
and to support policy reform in the gas distribution sub-sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Borrower's MFE
1.     Technical assistance in support of institutional strengthening and policy
development.
2.     Technical assistance to identify investments projects and changes in procedures in
the natural gas supply and utilization system.
Part B: Borrower's RESF
1.     Energy efficiency investments to be carried out by the Executing Agencies.
2.     Technical assistance in support of Project implementation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2001
through September 15, 2012               2,915,000
And on March 15, 2013                           2,955,000
*      The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage per
annum) applicable to the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                         0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                         0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                           0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                        0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                         1.00
maturity


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of the
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995, revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, namely, that the
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
With respect to each contract for goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said


﻿- 17-
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 5
Eligibility, Appraisal Procedures of Energy
Efficiency Sub-project and
Principal Terms and Conditions of
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(A)    Sub-projects shall meet the following eligibility criteria for financing under Part B
of the Project:
(1)    20% Economic Rate of Return;
(2)    10% Financial Rate of Return;
(3)    Technical feasibility;
(4)    Satisfactory implementation plan;
(5)    Demonstrated financial ability of the Executing Agency to: (i) finance
local costs of the Sub-project from internally generated funds; and (ii)
provide debt service coverage of not less than 1.2; and
(6)    An environmental assessment which meets Russian requirements.
(B)    Subsidiary Loans shall have the following terms:
(1)    Interest rate of 3 percent above Bank's rate, of which 0.5 percent will cover
the fee payable to RESF under Section 4.03;
(2)    Maturity of 10 year inclusive of 3 years grace period; and
(3)    Executing Agency bears foreign exchange risk.


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 6
Executing Agencies that are located in any of the following cities:
(1)    Saratov
(2)    Voronezh
(3)    Cherepovets
(4)    Ryazan
(5)    St. Petersburg
(6)    Stavropol
(7)    Rostov-on-Don
(8)    Samara
(9)    Nizhny-Novgorod
(10)   Vladimir


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Category (1) in respect of the Special
Account for Part A of the Project, and Categories (2), (3) and (4) in respect of the Special
Account for Part B of the Project, set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule I to this
Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000
in respect of each of the respective Special Accounts to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited in the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 in respect of each of the
respective Special Accounts until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the respective
Categories of the Loan Account plus the total amounts of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.     (a)    Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
(b)    Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit) for an eligible
expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the equivalent of $30,000 shall be made
exclusively out of the respective Special Account. The Bank may from time to time, by
notice to the Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the preceding sentence.
3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts
have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an
amount or amounts determined by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible expenditures
during the four months following the date of each such request, which amount shall not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and


﻿-21 -
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Bank shall have
determined to be so required.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
specify.
(ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not
be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the respective Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or


﻿- 22 -
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the respective
eligible Category for such Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to said part of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the respective Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FO".EC      -rR


